================================================================================
CIK: 0001501585
Company Name: HUNTINGTON INGALLS INDUSTRIES, INC
Filing Date: 2019-02-14
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 03:11:15
================================================================================

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Our Business

Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. is America’s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, our Ingalls segment in Mississippi and Newport News segment in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. We also provide a range of services to the governmental, energy, and oil and gas markets through our Technical Solutions segment. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, HII employs approximately 40,000 people both domestically and internationally.

We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense technology programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. Our Technical Solutions segment provides a wide range of professional services, including fleet support, MDIS, nuclear and environmental, and oil and gas services.

The following discussion should be read along with the audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Environment

In August 2011, the BCA established limits on U.S. Government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion for fiscal years 2012 through 2021. The BCA also provided that the defense budget would face “sequestration” cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period, to the extent that discretionary spending limits are exceeded, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the U.S. Coast Guard.

The BBA 2018 provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and raised the budget topline for defense and non-defense discretionary spending. However, sequestration remains in effect for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. Long-term uncertainty remains with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years' defense plan, and it is likely that U.S. Government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure.

While appropriations measures that fund the DoD, DoE, and a limited number of other federal agencies have been enacted for fiscal year 2019, appropriations to fund the balance of the federal government for fiscal year 2019 have not been enacted and Congress and the Administration have thus far been unable to agree on funding for those agencies. We cannot predict the impact that sequestration cuts, reprioritization of readiness and modernization investment, or lack of appropriations to fund a portion of the U.S. Government for fiscal year 2019 may have on funding for our individual programs. Long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed, or canceled. In addition, spending cuts and/or reprioritization of defense investment could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers, subcontractors, and employee base. Our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding. Significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the U.S. Navy or significant delays in funding our ship programs would have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

The budget environment, including sequestration as currently mandated, remains a significant long-term risk. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will develop and what challenges budget changes will present for the defense industry. We believe continued budget pressures that result from sequestration and other budget priorities will have serious implications for defense discretionary spending, the defense industrial base, including us, and the customers, employees, suppliers, subcontractors, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. Although it is difficult to determine specific impacts, we expect that over the longer term, the budget environment may result in fewer contract awards and lower revenues, profits, and cash flows from our U.S. Government contracts. Congress and the current presidential

30

Table of Contents

administration continue to discuss various options to address sequestration in future budget planning, but we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. It is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term impacts on us and the entire defense industry.

Defense Industry Overview

The United States faces a complex, uncertain, and rapidly changing national security environment. The 2018 National Defense Strategy acknowledges an increasingly complex global security environment, characterized by overt challenges to the free and open international order and the re-emergence of long-term, strategic competition between nations. America also faces an ever more lethal and disruptive battlefield, combined across domains, and conducted at increasing speed and reach. The security environment is also affected by rapid technological advancements and the changing character of war. The drive to develop new technologies is relentless, expanding to more actors with lower barriers of entry, and moving at accelerating speed. New technologies include advanced computing, “big data” analytics, artificial intelligence, autonomy, robotics, directed energy, hypersonics, and biotechnology.

We expect that execution of the DoD strategy will require an affordable balance between investments in restoring the readiness of the current force with investments in new capabilities, technologies, and capacity to meet future challenges. The DoD faces the additional challenge of recapitalizing equipment and rebuilding readiness at a time when the DoD is pursuing modernization of its capabilities, while still facing additional budget cuts from sequestration. While the BBA 2018 provided relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019, it is unclear how sequestration could impact programs for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. BCA spending caps, coupled with other budget priorities, could have a significant impact on future spending plans for defense and non-defense discretionary programs. Decreases in the proposed funding levels for our programs could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, including revenues, goodwill, and long-lived assets.

In December 2016, the U.S. Navy released the findings of a year-long Force Structure Assessment, developed to determine the right balance of existing forces, the ships currently under construction, and the future procurement plans needed to address the ever-evolving and increasingly complex threats that the Navy is required to counter. Notably, the Force Structure Assessment did not present a desired force size the U.S. Navy would pursue if resources were not constrained; it reflected a force level that balances warfighting risk to equipment and personnel against available resources and recommends a force size that can reasonably achieve success. Accordingly, the Force Structure Assessment reflects an objective force of 355 ships, comprised of 12 aircraft carriers, 104 large surface combatants, 52 small surface combatants, 38 amphibious warfare ships, 66 attack submarines, 12 ballistic missile submarines, 32 combat logistics ships, 10 expeditionary/high speed transports, 6 expeditionary support bases, and 23 command and support ships. Additionally, the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act included the SHIPS Act, which made it the policy of our nation to achieve a fleet size of 355 ships.

The U.S. Navy’s 2019 five-year shipbuilding plan includes 54 new ships, 12 more than the 42 ships included in the Navy’s 2018 five-year plan and 11 more than were included in the fiscal year 2018 budget request. Similarly, the U.S. Navy’s fiscal year 2019 30-year shipbuilding plan also increased the ship count by including 301 new ships, 47 more than the 254 ships included in the Navy’s fiscal year 2017 30-year plan.

While the force objective of 355 ships reflected in the 2016 Force Structure Assessment still pertains and has been memorialized as national policy by the 2018 SHIPS Act, both the Congressional Research Service and Congressional Budget Office have estimated that additional ships would need to be added to the U.S. Navy’s 30-year plan to achieve the 355 ship objective unless the Navy extends the service lives of existing ships and reactivates recently retired ships.

In December 2018, the U.S. Navy also released its “Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority, Version 2.0” (the "Design"), which expands upon a posture initially put forth in January 2016 under Version 1.0 of the Design. The new plan calls for four specific lines of effort: strengthening naval power at and from the sea; achieving high-velocity outcomes; strengthening the U.S. Navy team of the future; and expanding and strengthening the Navy’s Network of Partners. Each line of effort calls for specific recommendations that are intended to make the U.S. Navy more agile, more competitive, and tougher. As a means of strengthening naval power, the plan expresses award date goals for several major programs, including the future frigate and large surface combatant. Other initiatives include integrating more artificial intelligence and machine learning into warfare systems, developing and fielding a family of directed energy weapons, as well as employment of 3D printing for replacement parts.

31

Table of Contents

The shipbuilding defense industry, as characterized by its competitors, customers, suppliers, potential entrants, and substitutes, is unique in many ways. It is heavily capital and skilled labor intensive. The U.S. Navy, a large single customer with many needs and requirements, dominates the industry's customer base and is served by an increasingly fragile supplier base that has trended toward exclusive providers. Smaller shipyards, however, have entered the market to build the U.S. Navy's littoral combat ship and have expressed interest in the future frigate program.

The DoD continues to adjust its procurement practices and streamline acquisition organizations and processes in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. Additionally, the U.S. Navy must compete with other national priorities, including other defense activities, non-defense discretionary spending, and entitlement programs, for a share of federal budget funding. While the impact to our business resulting from these developments remains uncertain, they could have a material impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the DoD. See Risk Factors in Item 1A.

Program Descriptions

For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is included in the Glossary of Programs.

CONTRACTS

We generate most of our revenues from long-term U.S. Government contracts for design, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs, including allowable general and administrative expenses. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are treated as allowable and allocable costs under the FAR and CAS regulations. Examples of costs incurred by us that are not allowable under the FAR and CAS regulations include certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense, and advertising costs.

We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, the DCAA routinely audits the costs we incur that are allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government.

Our contracts typically fall into one of four categories: firm fixed-price, fixed-price incentive, cost-type, and time and materials. See Note 8: Revenue.

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Firm Fixed-Price Contracts - A firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is predetermined by bid or negotiation and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor.

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Fixed-Price Incentive Contracts - Fixed-price incentive contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs, but are subject to a cost-share limit that affects profitability. Fixed-price incentive contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share limit is reached.

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Cost-Type Contracts - Cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs plus a fee that represents profit. Cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its reasonable efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Time and Materials - Time and materials contracts specify a fixed hourly billing rate for each direct labor hour expended and reimbursement for allowable material costs and expenses.

Contract Fees - Negotiated contract fee structures include: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize contractors for under or over cost target performance, respectively, positive award fees, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, percentage-of-completion of the contract, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined.

32

Table of Contents

Award Fees - Certain contracts contain award fees based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on an evaluation by the customer of our performance against such negotiated criteria. We consider award fees to be variable consideration and generally include these fees in the transaction price using a most likely amount approach. Award fees are limited to the extent of funding allotted by the customer and available for performance and those amounts for which a significant reversal of revenue is not probable.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Management considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations and requires significant judgment and estimates by management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by our management. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. Due to the significant judgment involved in selecting certain of the assumptions used in these policies, it is possible that different parties could choose different assumptions and reach different conclusions. We consider our policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies:

- --------------------
• Revenue recognition;

- -----------------------------------------------------
• Purchase accounting, goodwill, and intangible assets;

- -------------------------------------------
• Litigation, commitments, and contingencies;

- -------------------------------------
• Retirement related benefit plans; and

- ----------------------
• Workers' compensation.

Revenue Recognition

Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), and related amendments. Prior to January 1, 2018, we recognized revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 605-35 Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts utilizing the cost-to-cost measure of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, primarily based upon total costs incurred, with incentive fees included in sales when the amounts could be reasonably determined and estimated. Amounts representing change orders, claims, requests for equitable adjustment, or limitations of funding were included in sales only when they could be reliably estimated and realization was probable. For services contracts not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex equipment, revenues were recognized upon delivery or as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Costs related to these contracts were expensed as incurred. For additional information on the new standard and the impact to our results of operations, refer to Note 3: Accounting Standards Updates in Item 8.

Most of our revenues are derived from long-term contracts for the production of goods and services provided to the U.S. Government, which are generally accounted for by recognizing revenues over time using a cost-to-cost measure of progress. The use of the cost-to-cost method to measure performance progress over time is supported by clauses in the related contracts that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit, and take control of any work in process.

When the customer is not a U.S. Government entity, we may recognize revenue over time or at a point in time when control transfers upon delivery, depending upon the facts and circumstances of the related arrangement. When we determine that revenue should be recognized over time, we utilize a measure of progress that best depicts the transfer of control of the relevant goods and services to the customer. Generally, the terms and conditions of the contracts result in a transfer of control over the related goods and services as we satisfy our performance obligations. Accordingly, we recognize revenue over time using the cost-to-cost method to measure performance progress. We may, however, utilize a measure of progress other than cost-to-cost, such as a labor-based measure of progress, if the terms and conditions of the arrangement require such accounting.

When using the cost-to-cost method to measure performance progress, certain contracts may include costs that are not representative of performance progress, such as large upfront purchases of uninstalled materials,

33

Table of Contents

unexpected waste, or inefficiencies. In these cases, we adjust our measure of progress to exclude such costs, with the goal of better reflecting the transfer of control over the related goods or services to the customer and recognizing revenue only to the extent of the costs incurred that reflect our performance under the contract.

In addition, for time and material arrangements, we often utilize the practical expedient allowing the recognition of revenue in the amount we invoice, which corresponds with the value provided to the customer and to which we are entitled to payment for performance to date.

A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account for which revenue is recognized. To determine the proper revenue recognition method, consideration is given to whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as one contract and whether a single contract consists of more than one performance obligation. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the contract transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using an estimate of the standalone selling price based upon expected cost plus a margin at contract inception, which is generally the price disclosed in the contract. Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. In the majority of circumstances, modifications do not result in additional performance obligations that are distinct from the existing performance obligations in the contract, and the effects of the modifications are recognized as an adjustment to revenue on a cumulative catch-up basis. Alternatively, in instances in which the performance obligations in the modifications are deemed distinct, contract modifications are accounted for prospectively.

The amount of revenue recognized as we satisfy performance obligations associated with contracts with customers is based upon the determination of transaction price. Transaction price reflects the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled for performance under the terms and conditions of the relevant contract and may reflect fixed and variable components, including shareline incentive fees whereby the value of the contract is variable based upon the amount of costs incurred, as well as other incentive fees based upon achievement of contractual schedule commitments or other specified criteria in the contract. Shareline incentive fees are determined based upon the formula under the relevant contract using our estimated cost to complete for each period. We generally utilize a most likely amount approach to estimate variable consideration. In all such instances, the estimated revenues represent those amounts for which we believe a significant reversal of revenue is not probable.

Contract Estimates - In estimating contract costs, we utilize a profit-booking rate based upon performance expectations that takes into consideration a number of assumptions and estimates regarding risks related to technical requirements, feasibility, schedule, and contract costs. Management performs periodic reviews of the contracts to evaluate the underlying risks, which may increase the profit-booking rate as we are able to mitigate and retire such risks. Conversely, if we are not able to retire these risks, cost estimates may increase, resulting in a lower profit-booking rate.

The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, program managers, and financial professionals. Factors considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability, productivity, and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any performance delays, the availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete.

Changes in estimates of sales, costs, and profits on a performance obligation are recognized using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes in current and prior periods.

For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were as follows:

----------------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- ---- ---- --- --- - - ---

 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Gross favorable adjustments $ 225 $ 309 $ 297
Gross unfavorable adjustments (115 ) (105 ) (73 )
Net adjustments $ 110 $ 204 $ 224

34

Table of Contents

For the year ended December 31, 2018, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were related to risk retirement on the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, the Legend class NSC program, USS Portland (LPD 27), and Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), as well as other individually insignificant adjustments. During the same period, unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, including lower performance on Delaware (SSN 791) and Montana (SSN 794), and other individually insignificant adjustments.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were primarily related to risk retirement on the Legend class NSC program, Tripoli (LHA 7), USS Portland (LPD 27), and the delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), and other individually insignificant adjustments. During the same period, none of the unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were individually significant.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were primarily related to risk retirement on USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, USS Portland (LPD 27), the Legend class NSC program, and the Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyer program. During the same period, unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments included lower performance on the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72) and construction of USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), as well as other individually insignificant adjustments.

When estimates of total costs to be incurred exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned on a performance obligation related to a complex, construction-type contract, we recognize a provision for the entire loss on the performance obligation in the period the loss is determined.

Purchase Accounting, Goodwill, and Intangible Assets
Goodwill - Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of identifiable net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. The amount of our goodwill as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, was $1,263 million and $1,217 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a goodwill adjustment of $17 million in the Technical Solutions segment, primarily driven by the finalization of fair value calculations for certain assets and liabilities, as well as the net working capital adjustment, related to the acquisition of Camber Holding Corporation ("Camber").

Tests for Impairment - We perform impairment tests for goodwill as of November 30 of each year, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. When testing goodwill, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value, we record a charge to operations.

We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market based valuation methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period. The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of capital. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against our market capitalization. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit.

November 30, 2018 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2018.

November 30, 2017 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2017.

35

Table of Contents

November 30, 2016 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2016.

In conjunction with the realignment of our operations on December 1, 2016, we allocated goodwill among new and realigned reporting units based on the relative fair values of the reporting units being realigned. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2016, we performed a quantitative assessment of goodwill immediately after the realignment for each of the reporting units impacted by our realignment. Based on this quantitative assessment, no impairment charge was necessary as a result of the realignment.

Other Intangible Assets - We perform tests for impairment of amortizable intangible assets whenever events or
circumstances suggest that amortizable intangible assets may be impaired.

Litigation, Commitments and Contingencies

Overview - We are subject to a range of legal proceedings before various courts and administrative agencies and are periodically subject to government examinations, inquiries, and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and the experience of management and our internal and external legal counsel. In accordance with our practices relating to accounting for contingencies, we record charges to earnings when we determine, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known.

Environmental Accruals - We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. We record a liability for the costs of expected environmental remediation obligations when we determine that it is probable we will incur such costs and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. When a range of costs is possible and no amount within that range is a better estimate than another, we record the minimum amount of the range.

Factors that could result in changes to the assessment of probability, range of estimated costs, and environmental liability accruals include: modification of planned remedial actions, increase or decrease in the estimated time required to remediate, discovery of more extensive contamination than anticipated, results of efforts to involve other legally responsible parties, financial insolvency of other responsible parties, changes in laws and regulations or contractual obligations affecting remediation requirements, and improvements in remediation technology. Although we cannot predict whether new information gained as remediation projects progress will materially affect the accrued liability, we do not believe that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Asset Retirement Obligations - We record all known asset retirement obligations for which the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal, asset decommissioning, and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts as of each of December 31, 2018 and 2017, were immaterial. See Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8.

We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations related to assets currently in use, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that were not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2018, due to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, the fair value of these obligations has not been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Environmental remediation and/or asset decommissioning of facilities currently in use may be required when we cease to utilize these facilities. In addition, there may be conditional environmental asset retirement obligations that we have not yet discovered (for example, asbestos of which we have not become aware through normal business operations may exist in certain buildings), and these obligations have therefore not been included in our consolidated financial statements.

Litigation Accruals - Litigation accruals are recorded as charges to earnings when management has determined, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate

36

Table of Contents

resolution of any exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Based upon the information available, we believe that the resolution of any of these various legal proceedings will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Uncertain Tax Positions - Uncertain tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, based on the merits of the position, are recognized in the financial statements. We recognize the amount of a tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. If a tax position does not meet the minimum statutory threshold to avoid payment of penalties, we recognize an expense for the amount of the penalty in the period the tax position is claimed or expected to be claimed in our tax return. Penalties and accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as a component of income tax expense. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8. Changes in accruals associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in earnings in the period they are determined.

Retirement Related Benefit Plans

We recognize, on a plan-by-plan basis, the funded status of our retirement related benefit plans as an asset or liability on our balance sheet, with corresponding adjustments to after-tax accumulated other comprehensive loss and deferred tax assets or liabilities. The funded status represents the difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. See Note 17: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8.

We calculate our retirement related benefit plan costs under both CAS and U.S. GAAP Financial Accounting Standards ("FAS"). The calculations under CAS and FAS require significant judgment. CAS prescribes the determination, allocation, and recovery of retirement related benefit plan costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services. FAS prescribes the methodology used to determine retirement related benefit plan expense or income, as well as the liability, for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for these costs and their calculation methodologies differ from FAS. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of retirement related benefit plan costs.

Retirement related benefit plan costs are allocated to our U.S. Government contracts as allowable costs based upon CAS. We recover our CAS costs through the pricing of products and services on U.S. Government contracts, so that the CAS cost is recognized in segment product sales and service revenues and in the costs of those product sales and service revenues. In order to present our consolidated financial statements in accordance with FAS, we record the difference between our FAS expense and CAS cost (“FAS/CAS Adjustment”) as operating income within segment operating income and non-operating retirement benefit (expense) as required by a new accounting standard. For additional information on the new standard and the impact to our results of operations, refer to Note 3: Accounting Standards Updates in Item 8.

The minimum funding requirements for our qualified pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), which is primarily based on the year's expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. Effective January 1, 2011, we were subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 ("PPA"), which amended ERISA. Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven-year period as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of each year. PPA also introduced a variety of benefit restrictions that apply if a plan falls below certain funded percentages, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code. In funding our plans, we consider various factors, including the minimum funding requirements, maintaining the funded status needed to avoid potential benefit restrictions and other adverse consequences, maintaining minimum CAS funding requirements, and the current and anticipated funding levels of each plan.

During 2012, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act ("MAP-21") was enacted. MAP-21 included provisions for potential pension relief to plan sponsors in the form of higher interest rate assumptions that were used to determine minimum funding requirements. The relief derived from these provisions was to be phased out to lower levels over the next few years. The enactment of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act (“HATFA”) in 2014 and The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 successively provided for the continuation of pension relief and higher interest rate assumptions used to determine minimum funding requirements and extended the pension relief phase-out period. We consider the effects of pension relief legislation in the context of current year and future projected funded status levels in deciding the level of contributions to make to our plans each year.

37

Table of Contents

Due to the differences in requirements and calculation methodologies between FAS and CAS, our FAS pension expense is not necessarily indicative of the funding requirements under PPA or the amounts we recover from the U.S. Government under CAS.

When PPA was enacted, it was anticipated that the amounts required to be funded would exceed government contractors' recovery of those costs under CAS. To remedy this cash flow misalignment, on December 27, 2011, the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards Board issued its final CAS Harmonization Rule ("Harmonization"). Harmonization was intended to improve the alignment of the pension cost recovered through contract pricing under CAS and the pension funding requirements under the PPA. Harmonization became effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after February 27, 2012. Under Harmonization, only contracts entered into before the effective date qualified for an equitable adjustment. Price proposals for CAS covered contracts awarded on or after the effective date of February 27, 2012, reflected the effects of the rule. Harmonization affected pension costs on contracts over a phase-in period that ended in 2017. Our CAS pension cost recoveries are expected to remain unaffected by the pension relief provisions noted above because of the method permitted under Harmonization we use to determine the CAS interest rate, which is a current market rate.

Assumptions - We account for our retirement related benefit plans on the accrual basis under FAS. The measurements of obligations, costs, assets, and liabilities require significant judgment. We annually review our assumptions, which are set at each year end and are generally not changed during the following year unless there is a major plan event, such as an amendment, curtailment, or settlement that would trigger a remeasurement. The key assumptions in these measurements are the interest rate used to discount future benefit payments and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.

Discount Rate - The assumed discount rate under FAS is used to determine the retirement related benefit plan obligations and expense, and represents the hypothetical rate at which the plans' benefit obligations could be effectively settled at the measurement date. Consequently, the discount rate can be volatile from year to year. The discount rate assumption is determined for each plan by constructing a hypothetical portfolio of high quality bonds with cash flows that match the estimated outflows for future benefit payments to determine a single equivalent discount rate. Benefit payments are not only contingent on the terms of a plan, but also on the underlying participant demographics, including current age and assumed mortality. We use only bonds that are denominated in U.S. Dollars, are rated Aa or better by nationally recognized statistical rating agencies, have a minimum outstanding issue of $100 million as of the measurement date, and are not callable, convertible, or index-linked.

Taking into consideration the factors noted above, our weighted average discount rate for pensions was 4.34% and 3.82% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our weighted average discount rate for other postretirement benefits was 4.33% and 3.85% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Expected Long-Term Rate of Return - The expected long-term rate of return on assets is used to calculate net periodic expense, and is based on such factors as historical returns, targeted asset allocations, investment policy, duration, expected future long-term performance of individual asset classes, interest rates, inflation, portfolio volatility, investment management and administrative fees, and risk management strategies. Historical plan asset performance alone has inherent limitations in predicting future returns. While studies are helpful in understanding past and current trends and performance, the assumption is based more on long-term prospective views to avoid short-term market influences. Unless plan assets and benefit obligations are subject to remeasurement during the year, the expected return on pension assets is based on the fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. We used a 7.25% expected long-term rate of return assumption to record 2018 pension expense, and we anticipate retaining that assumption throughout 2019.

Mortality - Mortality assumptions are used to determine the retirement related benefit obligations and expense, and represent the likelihood and duration of benefit payments to plan participants based on historical experience and projected longevity. We periodically update our mortality assumptions as circumstances warrant.

Differences arising from actual experience or changes in assumptions might materially affect retirement related benefit plan obligations and the funded status. Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between assumptions and actual experience or changes in assumptions are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss. This unrecognized amount is amortized as a component of net expense to the extent it exceeds 10% of the greater of the plan's benefit obligation or plan assets. The amortization period for actuarial gains and losses is the estimated average remaining service life of the plan participants. In 2018, the actual return on assets was approximately minus 6.4%, which was less than the expected return assumption of 7.25%. For the year ended

38

Table of Contents

December 31, 2018, the weighted average discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans increased by 52 and 48 basis points, respectively. These differences in asset returns and discount rates resulted in an actuarial loss of $827 million and an actuarial gain of $538 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2018.

An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return assumptions would have had the following approximate impacts on pensions:

---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------------------- ---- - ---

($ in millions) Increase (Decrease) in 2019 Expense Increase (Decrease) in December 31, 2018 Obligations
25 basis point decrease in discount rate $ 21 $ 237
25 basis point increase in discount rate (20 ) (224 )
25 basis point decrease in expected return on assets 14
25 basis point increase in expected return on assets (14 )

Assuming a 7.25% expected return on assets assumption, a $50 million pension contribution is generally expected to favorably impact the current year expected return on assets by approximately $1 million, depending on the timing of the contribution.

Sensitivities to assumptions are not necessarily linear and are specific to the time periods noted.

CAS Cost - In addition to providing the methodology for calculating retirement related benefit plan costs, CAS also prescribes the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for such costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. The key drivers of CAS pension cost include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans. A plan’s CAS pension cost can only be allocated until the plan is fully funded as defined under the CAS requirements.

Through 2013, CAS required the pension interest rate to be consistent with the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, which changed infrequently given its long-term nature. As a result, short-term changes in bond yields or other interest rates generally did not impact CAS costs. Under Harmonization the liability used to determine CAS cost is developed by comparing the liability under the previous CAS methodology and assumptions to a liability based on a discount rate derived from yields on high quality corporate bonds. Since Harmonization became fully phased in during 2017, the greater of the two liabilities is used for CAS cost calculations. Generally, liabilities based on a discount rate of high quality corporate bonds will be higher than liabilities calculated prior to Harmonization. Prior to the full phasing in of Harmonization the use of a blend of the pre and post Harmonization liabilities was required.

Other FAS and CAS Pension Considerations - A key driver of the difference between FAS expense and CAS cost (and consequently the FAS/CAS Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for actuarial gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experiences differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Under FAS, our net actuarial gains and losses exceeding the 10% corridor are amortized over the estimated average remaining service life of the plan participants. Under CAS Harmonization, the amortization period changed from 15 to 10 years for actuarial gains and losses beginning in 2013. Both FAS and CAS use a "market-related value" of plan assets approach to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. Under CAS actual asset gains and losses are systematically smoothed over five years, subject to certain limitations. For FAS, we do not use this smoothing method, and instead use fair value in determining our FAS expense. Accordingly, FAS expense generally reflects recent asset gains and losses sooner than CAS.

Additionally, CAS cost is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded as defined under CAS. If a plan becomes or ceases to be fully funded due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS cost will change accordingly.

The FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2018 was a net benefit of $364 million. The favorable change from 2017 to 2018 was primarily driven by more immediate recognition of the 2017 asset gains under FAS and the impacts of lower discount and interest rates and other experience gains and losses and assumptions changes (e.g. mortality). The FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2017 and 2016 was a net benefit of $189 million and $145 million, respectively. The favorable change from 2016 to 2017 was driven by the final phase-in of Harmonization. Our projected 2019 FAS/CAS Adjustment is discussed in Consolidated Operating Results - Operating Income.

39

Table of Contents

Retirement Plan Assets - Retirement plan assets are stated at fair value. Investments in equity securities (common and preferred) are valued at the last reported sales price when an active market exists. Investments in fixed-income securities are generally valued based on market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities that are generally recognized by institutional traders. Investments in hedge funds, real estate investment funds, private partnerships, collective trust funds, and commingled funds are generally valued at their Net Asset Values ("NAV") or equivalent, which are based on the current fair value of the fund's underlying assets.

Management reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements, and additional pricing information to evaluate the NAV or its equivalent. For the limited group of investments for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. See Note 17: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in Item 8.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss - Changes in assumptions and changes to plan assets and benefit obligations due to differences between actuarial assumptions and actual results are reported as actuarial gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss along with unrecognized prior service costs arising from plan amendments. As disclosed in Note 17: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8, net pre-tax unrecognized actuarial losses as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $1,692 million and $1,459 million, respectively. The increase in these actuarial losses in 2018 was primarily driven by actual asset returns, which were $827 million below expected returns, $78 million of amortization of previously unrecognized actuarial losses, and a $538 million actuarial gain due to the increase in the discount rates used to determine benefit obligations.

Net pre-tax unrecognized prior service costs (credits) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $46 million and $47 million, respectively. These net deferred costs (credits) primarily originated from plan amendments, including those resulting from collective bargaining agreements. The change in unrecognized prior service costs (credits) in 2018 primarily resulted from amendments within a collective bargaining agreement, offset by the amortization of previously accumulated prior service costs (credits).

Workers' Compensation

Our operations are subject to federal and state workers' compensation laws. We maintain self-insured workers' compensation plans and participate in federally administered second injury workers' compensation funds. We estimate the liability for such claims and funding requirements on a discounted basis utilizing actuarial methods based on various assumptions, which include our historical loss experience and projected loss development factors. We periodically, and at least annually, update our assumptions based on an actuarial analysis. Related self-insurance accruals include the liability for reported claims and an estimated accrual for claims incurred but not reported. Our workers' compensation liability was discounted at 2.89% and 2.35% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, based on future payment streams and a risk-free rate. We estimate a 100 basis points increase or decrease in the discount rate would change our workers' compensation liability by $(32) million or $38 million, respectively. The workers' compensation benefit obligation on an undiscounted basis was $845 million and $925 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Accounting Standards Updates

See Note 3: Accounting Standards Updates in Item 8 for further information.

40

Table of Contents

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS

The following table presents selected financial highlights:

------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- --- -- - ---- -- --- - --- --

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 8,176 $ 7,441 $ 7,068 $ 735 10 % $ 373 5 %
Cost of product sales and service revenues 6,385 5,813 5,445 572 10 % 368 7 %
Income from operating investments, net 17 12 6 5 42 % 6 100 %
Other income and gains 14 — 15 14 — % (15 ) (100 )%
General and administrative expenses 871 759 768 112 15 % (9 ) (1 )%
Operating income 951 881 876 70 8 % 5 1 %
Interest expense (58 ) (94 ) (74 ) 36 38 % (20 ) (27 )%
Non-operating retirement benefit (expense) 74 (16 ) (18 ) 90 563 % 2 11 %
Other, net 4 1 — 3 300 % 1 — %
Federal and foreign income taxes 135 293 211 (158 ) (54 )% 82 39 %
Net earnings $ 836 $ 479 $ 573 $ 357 75 % $ (94 ) (16 )%

Operating Performance Assessment and Reporting

We manage and assess the performance of our business based on our performance on individual contracts and programs using the financial measures referred to below, with consideration given to the Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments referred to in this section. Our portfolio of long-term contracts is largely flexibly-priced. Therefore, sales tend to fluctuate in concert with costs across our large portfolio of active contracts, with operating income being a critical measure of operating performance. Under FAR rules that govern our business with the U.S. Government, most types of costs are allowable, and we do not focus on individual cost groupings, such as cost of sales or general and administrative expenses, as much as we do on total contract costs, which are a key factor in determining contract operating income. As a result, in evaluating our operating performance, we look primarily at changes in sales and service revenues, as well as operating income, including the effects of significant changes in operating income as a result of changes in contract estimates and the use of the cumulative catch-up method of accounting in accordance with GAAP. This approach is consistent with the long-term life cycle of our contracts, as management assesses the bidding of each contract by focusing on net sales and operating profit and monitors performance in a similar manner through contract completion. Consequently, our discussion of business segment performance focuses on net sales and operating profit, consistent with our approach for managing our business.

Cost of sales for both product sales and service revenues consists of materials, labor, and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs for overhead. We manage the type and amount of costs at the contract level, which is the basis for estimating our total costs at completion of our contracts. Unusual fluctuations in operating performance driven by changes in a specific cost element across multiple contracts are described in our analysis.

Sales and Service Revenues

Sales and service revenues were comprised as follows:

-------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- ------- ----- ------- ------- --- --- -- - -- - --- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Product sales $ 6,023 $ 5,573 $ 5,631 $ 450 8 % $ (58 ) (1 )%
Service revenues 2,153 1,868 1,437 285 15 % 431 30 %
Sales and service revenues $ 8,176 $ 7,441 $ 7,068 $ 735 10 % $ 373 5 %

2018 - Product sales in 2018 increased $450 million, or 8%, from 2017. Product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $182 million in 2018, primarily as a result of higher volumes in amphibious assault ships, partially offset by lower volumes in the Legend class NSC program. Newport News product sales increased $284 million in 2018,

41

Table of Contents

primarily as a result of higher volumes in aircraft carriers, partially offset by lower volumes in submarines. Technical Solutions product sales decreased $16 million in 2018, primarily as a result of lower volumes in nuclear and environmental products.

Service revenues in 2018 increased $285 million, or 15%, from 2017. Service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $3 million in 2018, as a result of higher volumes in amphibious assault ships services, partially offset by lower volumes in surface combatants services. Service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $269 million in 2018, primarily as a result of higher volumes in naval nuclear support services and submarines services. Service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $13 million in 2018, primarily as a result of higher volumes in oil and gas and MDIS services, partially offset by lower volumes in fleet support and nuclear and environmental services.

2017 - Product sales in 2017 decreased $58 million, or 1%, from 2016. Product sales at our Ingalls segment decreased $10 million in 2017, primarily as a result of lower volumes in surface combatants, partially offset by higher volumes in amphibious assault ships. Newport News product sales increased $20 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in aircraft carriers, partially offset by lower volumes in submarines. Technical Solutions product sales decreased $68 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in 2016 from the resolution of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

Service revenues in 2017 increased $431 million, or 30%, from 2016. Service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $41 million in 2017, as a result of higher volumes in surface combatants services. Service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $57 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in naval nuclear support services and submarines services, partially offset by lower volumes in aircraft carriers services. Service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $333 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in MDIS services following the December 2016 acquisition of Camber and higher volumes in fleet support and oil and gas services.

Cost of Sales and Service Revenues

Cost of product sales, cost of service revenues, income from operating investments, net, and general and administrative expenses were as follows:

-------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- --- -- - ---- -- --- - -

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Cost of product sales $ 4,627 $ 4,277 $ 4,237 $ 350 8 % $ 40 1 %
% of product sales 76.8 % 76.7 % 75.2 %
Cost of service revenues 1,758 1,536 1,208 222 14 % 328 27 %
% of service revenues 81.7 % 82.2 % 84.1 %
Income from operating investments, net 17 12 6 5 42 % 6 100 %
Other income and gains 14 — 15 14 — % (15 ) (100 )%
General and administrative expenses 871 759 768 112 15 % (9 ) (1 )%
% of total sales and service revenues 10.7 % 10.2 % 10.9 %
Cost of sales and service revenues $ 7,225 $ 6,560 $ 6,192 $ 665 10 % $ 368 6 %

Cost of Product Sales

2018 - Cost of product sales in 2018 increased $350 million, or 8%, compared to 2017. Cost of product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $171 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above, lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and the Legend class NSC program, and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of product sales at our Newport News segment increased $264 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above, lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of product sales at our Technical Solutions segment decreased $23 million in 2018, primarily due to the lower volumes described above and an allowance for accounts receivable in 2017 on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract. Cost of product sales related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment decreased $62 million from 2017 to 2018.

42

Table of Contents

Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales increased from 76.7% in 2017 to 76.8% in 2018, primarily due to lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7), the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and the Legend class NSC program, as well as one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, offset by a favorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment, an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017, and year-to-year variances in contract mix.

2017 - Cost of product sales in 2017 increased $40 million, or 1%, compared to 2016. Cost of product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $64 million in 2017, primarily as a result of lower risk retirement in the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, following delivery of USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) in 2016, as well as the volume changes described above, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7). Cost of product sales at our Newport News segment increased $56 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), partially offset by lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program. Cost of product sales at our Technical Solutions segment decreased $56 million in 2017, primarily due to the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract, partially offset by the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017. Cost of product sales related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment decreased $24 million from 2016 to 2017.

Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales increased from 75.2% in 2016 to 76.7% in 2017, primarily driven by lower risk retirement in the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, following delivery of USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) in 2016, the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, as well as the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7), a favorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment, and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72).

Cost of Service Revenues

2018 - Cost of service revenues in 2018 increased $222 million, or 14%, compared to 2017. Cost of service revenues at our Ingalls segment decreased $3 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $244 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $4 million in 2018, primarily due to one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of service revenues related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment decreased $23 million from 2017 to 2018.

Cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues decreased from 82.2% in 2017 to 81.7% in 2018, primarily driven by the resolution in 2017 of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, partially offset by a favorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment and year-to-year variances in contract mix.

2017 - Cost of service revenues in 2017 increased $328 million, or 27%, compared to 2016. Cost of service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $23 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $30 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $293 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the higher volumes described above. Cost of service revenues related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment decreased $18 million from 2016 to 2017.

Cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues decreased from 84.1% in 2016 to 82.2% in 2017, primarily driven by a favorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment, the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65), improved performance in oil and gas services, and year-to-year variances in contract mix.

43

Table of Contents

Income from Operating Investments, Net

The activities of our operating investments are closely aligned with the operations of the segments holding the investments. We therefore record income related to earnings from equity method investments in our operating income.

2018 - Income from operating investments, net increased $5 million, or 42%, to $17 million in 2018 from $12 million in 2017. The increase resulted from higher equity income from our SRNS and N3B investments.

2017 - Income from operating investments, net increased $6 million, or 100%, to $12 million in 2017 from $6 million in 2016. The increase resulted from higher equity income from our SRNS investment.

Other Income and Gains

2018 - Other income and gains increased $14 million in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily as a result of recoveries related to a settlement agreement at our Ingalls segment.

2017 - Other income and gains decreased $15 million in 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease resulted from state and local government grants at our Newport News segment in 2016.

General and Administrative Expenses

In accordance with industry practice and the regulations that govern the cost accounting requirements for government contracts, most general and administrative expenses are considered allowable and allocable costs on government contracts. These costs are allocated to contracts in progress on a systematic basis, and contract performance factors include this cost component as an element of cost.

2018 - General and administrative expenses in 2018 increased $112 million, or 15%, compared to 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher overhead costs related to increased headcount, as well as higher current state income tax expense, partially offset by lower non-current state income tax expense.

2017 - General and administrative expenses in 2017 decreased $9 million, or 1%, compared to 2016. This decrease was primarily driven by lower overhead costs, partially offset by higher non-current state income tax expense.

Operating Income

We consider operating income to be an important measure for evaluating our operating performance, and, as is typical in the industry, we define operating income as revenues less the related cost of producing the revenues and general and administrative expenses.

We internally manage our operations by reference to "segment operating income," which is defined as operating income before the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment and non-current state income taxes, neither of which affects segment performance. Segment operating income is not a recognized measure under GAAP.  When analyzing our operating performance, investors should use segment operating income in addition to, and not as an alternative for, operating income or any other performance measure presented in accordance with GAAP. It is a measure we use to evaluate our core operating performance.  We believe segment operating income reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. We believe the measure is used by investors and is a useful indicator to measure our performance. Because not all companies use identical calculations, our presentation of segment operating income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

44

Table of Contents

The following table reconciles operating income to segment operating income:

------------------------------ ---------------------- --- -------------- ---- -------------- --- ------- - ------- --- ------- ------- --- - --- -- -- --- -- --- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Operating income $ 951 $ 881 $ 876 $ 70 8 % $ 5 1 %
Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment (290 ) (205 ) (163 ) (85 ) (41 )% (42 ) (26 )%
Non-current state income taxes 2 12 2 (10 ) (83 )% 10 500 %
Segment operating income $ 663 $ 688 $ 715 $ (25 ) (4 )% $ (27 ) (4 )%

Segment Operating Income

2018 - Segment operating income in 2018 was $663 million, compared to $688 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower performance in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and the Legend class NSC program, the resolution in 2017 of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), as well as one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, partially offset by favorable changes in workers' compensation expense, recoveries related to a settlement agreement at our Ingalls segment and an allowance for accounts receivable in 2017 on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

2017 - Segment operating income in 2017 was $688 million, compared to $715 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower risk retirement on the delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), lower volume and risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program and Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, favorable changes in overhead costs in 2016, the receipt in 2016 of a local government incentive grant, and the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and USS Portland (LPD 27), the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), and improved performance in oil and gas services.

Activity within each segment is discussed under Segment Operating Results below.

FAS/CAS Adjustment and Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment

The FAS/CAS Adjustment reflects the difference between expenses for pension and other postretirement benefits determined in accordance with GAAP and the expenses for these items included in segment operating income in accordance with CAS. The Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment excludes the following components of net periodic benefit costs: interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost (credit) and actuarial loss (gain), and settlement and curtailment effects.

The components of the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment were as follows:

-------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- --- -------------- ---- ------- ------- ---- ------- ------- --- - -- ---- -- -- - --- - --- --

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
FAS expense $ (91 ) $ (172 ) $ (161 ) $ 81 47 % $ (11 ) (7 )%
CAS cost 455 361 306 94 26 % 55 18 %
FAS/CAS Adjustment $ 364 $ 189 $ 145 $ 175 93 % $ 44 30 %
Non-operating retirement expense $ (74 ) $ 16 $ 18 $ (90 ) (563 )% $ (2 ) (11 )%
Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment $ 290 $ 205 $ 163 $ 85 41 % $ 42 26 %

2018 - The Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2018 was a net benefit of $290 million, compared to a net benefit of $205 million in 2017. The favorable change was primarily driven by impacts of lower discount and interest rates.

2017 - The Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2017 was a net benefit of $205 million, compared to a net benefit of $163 million in 2016. The favorable change was primarily driven by the finalization of Harmonization.

45

Table of Contents

We expect the FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2019 to be a net benefit of approximately $159 million ($139 million FAS and $298 million CAS), primarily driven by the more immediate recognition of the 2018 asset loss under FAS and the more immediate recognition of higher interest rates under CAS.

We expect the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2019 to be a net benefit of approximately $147 million ($151 million FAS and $298 million CAS), primarily driven by the more immediate recognition of higher interest rates under CAS. The expected FAS/CAS Adjustment is subject to change during 2019, when we remeasure our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for CAS with updated census data and other items later in the year.

Non-current State Income Taxes

Non-current state income taxes include deferred state income taxes, which reflect the change in deferred state tax assets and liabilities, and the tax expense or benefit associated with changes in state uncertain tax positions in the relevant period. These amounts are recorded within operating income. Current period state income tax expense is charged to contract costs and included in cost of sales and service revenues in segment operating income.

2018 - Non-current state income tax expense in 2018 was $2 million, compared to $12 million in 2017. The decrease in non-current state income tax expense was driven by a decrease in deferred state income tax expense primarily attributable to changes in pension related adjustments.

2017 - Non-current state income tax expense in 2017 was $12 million, compared to $2 million in 2016. Deferred state income tax expense in 2017 was $12 million, compared to deferred state income tax expense of $8 million in 2016. The increase in deferred state income tax expense was primarily attributable to changes in pension related adjustments. In 2017, the decrease in state uncertain tax positions resulted in a net tax benefit of less than $1 million, compared to a tax benefit of $6 million in 2016. In 2016, a state uncertain tax position was settled through agreement with the applicable taxing authority and was partially offset by the recognition of a non-current state tax expense in a different jurisdiction impacted by the results of the settlement. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

Interest Expense

2018 - Interest expense in 2018 was $58 million, compared to $94 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily a result of a loss from the early extinguishment of debt in 2017 from refinancing our 5.000% senior notes due in 2021 with 3.483% senior notes due in 2027. See Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

2017 - Interest expense in 2017 was $94 million, compared to $74 million in 2016. The increase was primarily a result of a loss from the early extinguishment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2017. See Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

Non-Operating Retirement Benefit (Expense)

The non-operating retirement benefit (expense) includes the following components of net periodic benefit costs: interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost (credit) and actuarial loss (gain), and settlement and curtailment effects.

2018 - The favorable change in the non-operating retirement benefit (expense) of $90 million from 2017 to 2018 was primarily driven by favorable 2017 returns on plan assets.

2017 - The favorable change in the non-operating retirement benefit (expense) from 2016 to 2017 was $2 million.

Federal and Foreign Income Taxes

2018 - Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 13.9% in 2018, compared to 38.0% in 2017. The decrease in our effective tax rate for 2018 is primarily attributable to the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate and claims for higher research and development tax credits for prior tax years. In addition, the 2017 effective tax rate was impacted by the revaluation of the net deferred tax assets resulting from the decrease in the federal income tax rate included in the Tax Act.

2017 - Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 38.0% in 2017, compared to 26.9% in 2016. The increase in our effective tax rate for 2017 was primarily attributable to the revaluation of net deferred tax

46

Table of Contents

assets resulting from the decrease in the federal tax rate included in the Tax Act and a decrease in the domestic manufacturing deduction primarily resulting from an increase in our 2018 expected discretionary pre-tax pension contributions. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS

Basis of Presentation

We are aligned into three reportable segments: Ingalls, Newport News, and Technical Solutions.

The following table presents segment operating results:

---------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- --- -- - ---- -- --- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and Service Revenues
Ingalls $ 2,607 $ 2,420 $ 2,389 $ 187 8 % $ 31 1 %
Newport News 4,722 4,164 4,089 558 13 % 75 2 %
Technical Solutions 988 952 691 36 4 % 261 38 %
Intersegment eliminations (141 ) (95 ) (101 ) (46 ) (48 )% 6 6 %
Sales and service revenues $ 8,176 $ 7,441 $ 7,068 $ 735 10 % $ 373 5 %
Operating Income
Ingalls $ 313 $ 313 $ 321 $ — — % $ (8 ) (2 )%
Newport News 318 354 386 (36 ) (10 )% (32 ) (8 )%
Technical Solutions 32 21 8 11 52 % 13 163 %
Segment operating income 663 688 715 (25 ) (4 )% (27 ) (4 )%
Non-segment factors affecting operating income
Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment 290 205 163 85 41 % 42 26 %
Non-current state income taxes (2 ) (12 ) (2 ) 10 83 % (10 ) (500 )%
Operating income $ 951 $ 881 $ 876 $ 70 8 % $ 5 1 %

KEY SEGMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES

Sales and Service Revenues

Period-to-period revenues reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. Changes in sales and service revenues are typically expressed in terms of volume. Unless otherwise described, volume generally refers to increases (or decreases) in reported revenues due to varying production activity levels, delivery rates, or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes will typically carry a corresponding income change based on the margin rate for a particular contract.

Segment Operating Income

Segment operating income reflects the aggregate performance results of contracts within a segment. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, such as the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment and non-current state income taxes. Changes in segment operating income are typically expressed in terms of volume, as discussed above, or performance. Performance refers to changes in contract margin rates. These changes typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to EAC that reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance on that contract. Operating income changes are accounted for on a cumulative to date basis at the time an EAC change is recorded. Segment operating income may also be affected by, among other things, contract performance, the effects of workforce stoppages, the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes, resolution of disputed items with the customer, recovery of insurance proceeds, and other discrete events. At the completion of a long-term contract, any originally estimated costs not incurred or reserves not fully utilized, such as warranty reserves, could also impact contract earnings. Where such items have occurred and the effects are material, a separate description is provided.

47

Table of Contents

Ingalls

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ---- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- -- - - -- -- -- - -

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 2,607 $ 2,420 $ 2,389 $ 187 8 % $ 31 1 %
Segment operating income 313 313 321 — — % (8 ) (2 )%
As a percentage of segment sales 12.0 % 12.9 % 13.4 %

Sales and Service Revenues

2018 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $187 million, or 8%, in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by higher revenues in amphibious assault ships, partially offset by lower revenues in surface combatants and the Legend class NSC program. Amphibious assault ships revenues increased as a result of higher volumes on Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29), Bougainville (LHA 8), and Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), partially offset by lower volumes on the delivered USS Portland (LPD 27) and Tripoli (LHA 7). Surface combatants revenues decreased due to lower volumes on the delivered USS Ralph Johnson (DDG 114), Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), Paul Ignatius (DDG 117), and the delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), partially offset by higher volumes on USS Fitzgerald (DDG 62) repair and restoration, Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125), and Ted Stevens (DDG 128). Revenues on the Legend class NSC program decreased due to lower volume on USCGC Kimball (NSC 7) and Midgett (NSC 8), as well as lower risk retirement across the NSC program, partially offset by higher volumes on Stone (NSC 9) and NSC 10 (unnamed).

2017 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $31 million, or 1%, in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by higher revenues in amphibious assault ships, partially offset by lower revenues in surface combatants and the Legend class NSC program. Amphibious assault ships revenues increased as a result of higher volumes on Bougainville (LHA 8) and Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), partially offset by lower volume on the delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) and USS Portland (LPD 27). Surface combatants revenues decreased due to lower volumes on the delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), Ralph Johnson (DDG 114), Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), Paul Ignatius (DDG 117), and Delbert D. Black (DDG 119), partially offset by higher volumes on Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125), and the extended selected restricted availability contract for USS Ramage (DDG 61). Revenues on the Legend class NSC program decreased due to lower volume on the delivered USCGC Munro (NSC 6), partially offset by higher volumes on Stone (NSC 9) and Midgett (NSC 8).

Segment Operating Income

2018 - Ingalls operating income remained stable from 2017 to 2018 at $313 million, as recoveries related to a settlement agreement, higher risk retirement on Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, and the higher volumes described above were offset by lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and the Legend class NSC program.

2017 - Ingalls operating income in 2017 was $313 million, compared to income of $321 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower risk retirement on the delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) and Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and USS Portland (LPD 27).

Newport News

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- --- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- --- -- - -- -- -- - -

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 4,722 $ 4,164 $ 4,089 $ 558 13 % $ 75 2 %
Segment operating income 318 354 386 (36 ) (10 )% (32 ) (8 )%
As a percentage of segment sales 6.7 % 8.5 % 9.4 %

48

Table of Contents

Sales and Service Revenues

2018 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $558 million, or 13%, in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by higher revenues in aircraft carriers and naval nuclear support services, partially offset by lower revenues in submarines. Aircraft carriers revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes on the execution contract for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73) and the advance planning contract for Enterprise (CVN 80), partially offset by lower volumes on the inactivation of the decommissioned aircraft carrier Enterprise (CVN 65) and the execution contract for the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72). Naval nuclear support services revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes in submarine support and facility maintenance services. Submarines revenues related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program decreased due to lower volumes and performance on Block III boats, partially offset by higher volumes on Block IV and Block V boats.

2017 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $75 million, or 2%, in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by higher revenues in aircraft carriers and naval nuclear support services, partially offset by lower revenues in submarines. Aircraft carriers revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes on the advance planning and execution contract for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73), the construction contract for John F. Kennedy (CVN 79), and the advance planning contract for Enterprise (CVN 80), partially offset by lower volumes on the execution contract for the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), the construction contract for the delivered USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), and the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65). Naval nuclear support services revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes in submarine support and facility maintenance services, partially offset by lower volumes in aircraft carrier support services. Submarines revenues related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program decreased due to lower volumes on Block III boats, partially offset by higher volumes on Block IV boats.

Segment Operating Income

2018 - Newport News operating income in 2018 was $318 million, compared to income of $354 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower performance in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, including Delaware (SSN 791) and Montana (SSN 794), the resolution in 2017 of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), as well as one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, partially offset by favorable changes in workers' compensation expense and the increased volume described above.

2017 - Newport News operating income in 2017 was $354 million, compared to income of $386 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower volume and risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, favorable changes in overhead costs in 2016, and the receipt in 2016 of a local government incentive grant, partially offset by the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72).

Technical Solutions

-------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- --- -------------- --- ------- - ------- --- ------- ------- -- -- - - --- - --- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 988 $ 952 $ 691 $ 36 4 % $ 261 38 %
Segment operating income 32 21 8 11 52 % 13 163 %
As a percentage of segment sales 3.2 % 2.2 % 1.2 %

Sales and Service Revenues

2018 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2018, increased $36 million, or 4%, compared to 2017, primarily due to higher revenues in oil and gas services and MDIS services, partially offset by lower nuclear and environmental and fleet support revenues.

2017 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased $261 million, or 38%, compared to 2016, primarily due to higher volume in MDIS services following the

49

Table of Contents

December 2016 acquisition of Camber and higher volumes in fleet support and oil and gas services, partially offset by lower nuclear and environmental volumes due to the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

Segment Operating Income

2018 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2018, was $32 million, compared to operating income of $21 million in 2017. The increase was primarily due to an allowance for accounts receivable in 2017 on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract and higher income from operating investments at our nuclear and environmental joint ventures, partially offset by one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act and lower performance in fleet support services.

2017 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2017, was $21 million, compared to operating income of $8 million in 2016. The increase was primarily due to improved performance in oil and gas services and higher volume in MDIS services following the December 2016 acquisition of Camber, partially offset by the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017 and the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

BACKLOG

Total backlog as of December 31, 2018, was approximately $23 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded IDIQ orders. For contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer.

The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment as of December 31, 2018 and 2017:

------------------- ----------------- ------ ----------------- ----- ------- ----- ------ -------- ------ ------- ----- ------ ------ - ----- - ------

 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017
 Total Total
($ in millions) Funded Unfunded Backlog Funded Unfunded Backlog
Ingalls $ 9,943 $ 1,422 $ 11,365 $ 5,920 $ 2,071 $ 7,991
Newport News 6,767 4,144 10,911 6,976 5,608 12,584
Technical Solutions 339 380 719 478 314 792
Total backlog $ 17,049 $ 5,946 $ 22,995 $ 13,374 $ 7,993 $ 21,367

We expect approximately 30% of the $23 billion total backlog as of December 31, 2018, to be converted into sales in 2019. U.S. Government orders comprised substantially all of the backlog as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Awards

2018 - The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2018, was approximately $9.8 billion. Significant new awards during the period included contracts for the construction of three Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, for the detail design and construction of Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29), for procurement of long-lead-time material for Enterprise (CVN 80), and for the construction of NSC 10 (unnamed) and NSC 11 (unnamed).

In addition, we received awards in 2019 valued at $15.2 billion for detail design and construction of the Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Enterprise (CVN 80) and CVN 81 (unnamed).

2017 - The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2017, was approximately $8.1 billion. Significant new awards during this period included the detailed design and construction contract for Bougainville (LHA 8) and the execution contract for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73).

50

Table of Contents

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We endeavor to ensure the most efficient conversion of operating results into cash for deployment in operating our businesses, implementing our business strategy, and maximizing stockholder value. We use various financial measures to assist in capital deployment decision making, including net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow. We believe these measures are useful to investors in assessing our financial performance.

The following table summarizes key components of cash flow provided by operating activities:

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- ---- -------------- --- ------- - ------- ---- ------- ------- --- ---- -- - ---- -- --- - --- --

 Year Ended December 31 2018 over 2017 2017 over 2016
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Net earnings $ 836 $ 479 $ 573 $ 357 75 % $ (94 ) (16 )%
Depreciation and amortization 207 211 191 (4 ) (2 )% 20 10 %
Provision for doubtful accounts (4 ) 10 — (14 ) (140 )% 10 — %
Stock-based compensation 36 34 36 2 6 % (2 ) (6 )%
Deferred income taxes 10 184 85 (174 ) (95 )% 99 116 %
Retiree benefit funding in excess of expense (454 ) (163 ) (44 ) (291 ) (179 )% (119 ) (270 )%
Loss on early extinguishment of debt — 22 — (22 ) (100 )% 22 — %
Trade working capital decrease (increase) 283 37 (19 ) 246 665 % 56 295 %
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 914 $ 814 $ 822 $ 100 12 % $ (8 ) (1 )%

Cash Flows

We discuss below our major operating, investing, and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, as classified in our consolidated statements of cash flows.

Operating Activities

2018 - Cash provided by operating activities was $914 million in 2018, compared to $814 million in 2017. The increase of $100 million in operating cash flow was primarily due to a change in trade working capital and lower income tax payments, partially offset by increased funding of retiree benefit plans. The change in trade working capital was primarily driven by the timing of payments of accounts payable.

We expect cash generated from operations in 2019, in combination with our current cash and cash equivalents, as well as existing credit facilities, to be sufficient to service debt and retiree benefit plans, meet contractual obligations, and finance capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months.

2017 - Cash provided by operating activities was $814 million in 2017, compared to $822 million in 2016. The decrease of $8 million in operating cash flow was primarily due to increased funding of retiree benefit plans and the change in deferred income taxes, partially offset by a change in trade working capital. The change in trade working capital was primarily driven by the timing of payments of accounts payable.

Investing Activities

2018 - Cash used in investing activities was $476 million in 2018, an increase of $127 million from 2017. The change in investing cash flow was driven by the acquisition of G2, Inc., higher capital expenditures, and investments in nuclear and environmental joint ventures in 2018, partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of Avondale.

For 2019, we expect our capital expenditures for maintenance and sustainment to be approximately 1.5% to 2.0% of annual revenues and our discretionary capital expenditures to be approximately 3.5% to 4.0% of annual revenues.

51

Table of Contents

2017 - Cash used in investing activities was $349 million in 2017, a decrease of $304 million from 2016. The change in investing cash flow was driven by the acquisition of Camber in 2016, partially offset by higher capital expenditures in 2017.

Financing Activities

2018 - Cash used in financing activities in 2018 was $899 million, compared to $484 million used in 2017. The change was primarily due to increases of $456 million of common stock repurchases and $17 million of cash dividend payments, partially offset by decreases of $31 million in employee tax withholdings on share-based payment arrangements and $27 million of debt related expenditures.

2017 - Cash used in financing activities in 2017 was $484 million, compared to $343 million used in 2016. The change was primarily due to increases of $92 million of common stock repurchases, $27 million of debt related expenditures, $17 million of cash dividend payments, and $5 million in employee tax withholdings on share-based payment arrangements.

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow represents cash provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures net of related grant proceeds. Free cash flow is not a measure recognized under GAAP. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity measure for our investors because it provides them insight into our current and period-to-period performance and our ability to generate cash from continuing operations. We also use free cash flow as a key operating metric in assessing the performance of our business and as a key performance measure in evaluating management performance and determining incentive compensation. Free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:

--------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- - - ---

 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 914 $ 814 $ 822
Less capital expenditures:
Capital expenditure additions (463 ) (382 ) (285 )
Grant proceeds for capital expenditures 61 21 —
Free cash flow $ 512 $ 453 $ 537

2018 - Free cash flow increased $59 million from 2017, primarily due to a change in trade working capital and lower income tax payments, partially offset by increased funding of retiree benefit plans and higher capital expenditures.

2017 - Free cash flow decreased $84 million from 2016, primarily due to increased funding of retiree benefit plans, higher capital expenditures, and a change in trade working capital.

Retirement Related Benefit Plan Contributions

ERISA, including amendments under pension relief, defines the minimum amount that must be contributed to our qualified defined benefit pension plans. In determining whether to make discretionary contributions to these plans above the minimum required amounts, we consider various factors, including maintaining the funded status needed to avoid potential benefit restrictions and other adverse consequences, maintaining minimum CAS funding requirements, and the current and anticipated future funding levels of each plan. The contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans are affected by a number of factors, including published IRS interest rates, the actual return on plan assets, actuarial assumptions, and demographic experience. These factors and our resulting contributions also impact the plans' funded statuses. We made the following minimum and discretionary contributions to our pension and other postretirement plans in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

52

Table of Contents

------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- -- ---- --- -- - ---

 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2018 2017 2016
Pension plans
Discretionary
Qualified $ 508 $ 294 $ 167
Non-qualified 8 7 6
Other benefit plans 30 34 32
Total contributions $ 546 $ 335 $ 205

We made discretionary contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans totaling $508 million, $294 million, and $167 million in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, our qualified pension plans were funded 90% and 89%, respectively, on a FAS basis. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, these plans were sufficiently funded on an ERISA basis so as not to be subject to benefit payment restrictions. The funded percentages under ERISA and FAS vary due to inherent differences in the assumptions and methodologies used to calculate the respective obligations. We expect our 2019 cash contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans to be $21 million, all of which we anticipate will be discretionary and which are exclusive of CAS cost recoveries in our contracts. Due to the differences in calculation methodologies, our FAS expense is not necessarily representative of our funding requirements or CAS cost recoveries.

Other postretirement benefit contributions were $30 million, $34 million, and $32 million in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. We expect our 2019 contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans to be approximately $33 million, which are exclusive of CAS cost recoveries in our contracts. Contributions for postretirement benefits are not required to be funded in advance and are paid on an as-incurred basis.

Other Sources and Uses of Capital

Stockholder Distributions - In November 2018, our board of directors authorized an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.86 per share. The board previously increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.72 per share in November 2017 and $0.60 per share in November 2016. We paid cash dividends totaling $132 million ($3.02 per share), $115 million ($2.52 per share), and $98 million ($2.10 per share) in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.

In November 2017, our board of directors authorized an increase in our stock repurchase program from $1.2 billion to $2.2 billion and an extension of the term of the program from October 31, 2019, to October 31, 2022. Repurchases are made from time to time at management's discretion in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased 3,620,916 shares at an aggregate cost of $788 million, of which $48 million was not yet settled for cash as of December 31, 2018. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we repurchased 1,417,808 and 1,266,192 shares, respectively, at aggregate costs of $288 million and $192 million, respectively, of which $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, was not yet settled for cash as of December 31, 2017.

Additional Capital - In December 2017, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.483% senior notes due December 2027, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase our 5.000% senior notes due in 2021. In November 2015, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of unregistered 5.000% senior notes due November 2025, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase our 7.125% senior notes due in 2021. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually.

In November 2017, we terminated our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with third-party lenders and entered into a new Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with third-party lenders. The Credit Facility includes a revolving credit facility of $1,250 million, which may be drawn upon during a period of five years from November 22, 2017. The revolving credit facility includes a letter of credit subfacility of $500 million. The revolving credit facility has a variable interest rate on outstanding borrowings based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a spread based upon our credit rating, which may vary between 1.125% and 1.500%. The revolving credit facility

53

Table of Contents

also has a commitment fee rate on the unutilized balance based on our leverage ratio. The commitment fee rate as of December 31, 2018 was 0.25% and may vary between 0.20% and 0.30%.

We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants as of and during the year ended December 31, 2018. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of December 31, 2018, our total outstanding long-term debt was $1,283 million, consisting of senior notes and other third-party debt. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

On March 29, 2011, HII entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement (the "Separation Agreement") with its former parent company, Northrop Grumman Corporation ("Northrop Grumman"), and Northrop Grumman's subsidiaries (Northrop Grumman Shipbuilding, Inc. and Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation), pursuant to which HII was legally and structurally separated from Northrop Grumman. In connection with the spin-off from Northrop Grumman, we also entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with Northrop Grumman (the "Tax Matters Agreement"), which governs the respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations of Northrop Grumman and us after the spin-off with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests, and other tax sharing regarding U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign income taxes, other taxes, and related tax returns. As of December 31, 2017, we were due $8 million from Northrop Grumman under spin-off related agreements, including the Tax Matters Agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we received the $8 million from Northrop Grumman.

The following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018, and the estimated timing of related future cash payments:

----------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----------- ----- ----------- --------------- ----- --- --- - -----

($ in millions) Total 2019 2020 - 2021 2022 - 2023 2024 and beyond
Long-term debt $ 1,305 $ — $ — $ — $ 1,305
Interest payments on long-term debt 49 8 17 17 7
Operating leases 196 41 66 33 56
Purchase obligations (1) 3,684 1,986 1,327 320 51
Other long-term liabilities (2) 841 114 135 106 486
Total contractual obligations $ 6,075 $ 2,149 $ 1,545 $ 476 $ 1,905

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) A "purchase obligation" is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on us and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of total accrued workers' compensation reserves, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities, of which $225 million is the current portion of workers' compensation liabilities. It excludes obligations for uncertain tax positions of $26 million, including penalties and interest, for which the timing of the payments, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated.

The preceding table excludes retirement related contributions. Amounts for retirement related contributions depend on plan provisions, actuarial assumptions, actual plan asset performance, and other factors described above under Retirement Related Benefit Plans under Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments and under Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Further details regarding long-term debt and operating leases can be found in Note 14: Debt and Note 16: Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8.

54

Table of Contents

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the ordinary course of business, we use standby letters of credit issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to support our self-insured workers' compensation plans. As of December 31, 2018, $16 million in standby letters of credit were issued but undrawn and $275 million of surety bonds were outstanding.

As of December 31, 2018, we had no other significant off-balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 16: Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8.

55

Table of Contents

GLOSSARY OF PROGRAMS

Included below are brief descriptions of some of the programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Program Name Program Description

America class (LHA 6) amphibious assault ships Design and build large deck amphibious assault ships that provide forward presence and power projection as an integral part of joint, interagency and multinational maritime expeditionary forces. The America class (LHA 6) ships, together with the Wasp class (LHD 1) ships, are the successors to the decommissioned Tarawa class (LHA 1) ships. The America class (LHA 6) ships optimize aviation operations and support capabilities. We delivered USS America (LHA 6) in April 2014, Tripoli (LHA 7) is scheduled for delivery in 2019, and we are currently constructing Bougainville (LHA 8).

Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers Build guided missile destroyers designed for conducting anti-air, anti-submarine, anti-surface, and strike operations. The Aegis-equipped Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers are the U.S. Navy's primary surface combatant, and have been constructed in variants, allowing technological advances during construction. In 2016 we delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), and in 2017 we delivered Ralph Johnson (DDG 114). We are constructing five Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers: Paul Ignatius (DDG 117), Delbert D. Black (DDG 119), Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), and Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125).

Carrier RCOH Perform refueling and complex overhaul ("RCOH") of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, which is required at the mid-point of their 50-year life cycle. USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72) was redelivered to the U.S. Navy in the second quarter of 2017 and USS George Washington (CVN 73) arrived at Newport News for the start of its RCOH in August 2017.

Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarines Newport News is participating in designing the Columbia class submarine as a replacement for the current aging Ohio class nuclear ballistic missile submarines, which were first introduced into service in 1981. The Ohio class SSBN includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines. The Columbia class program plan of record is to construct 12 new ballistic missile submarines. The U.S. Navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarines, and, in early 2017, the DOD signed the acquisition decision memorandum approving the Columbia class program’s Milestone B, which formally authorizes the program’s entry into the engineering and manufacturing development phase. We perform design work as a subcontractor to Electric Boat, and we have entered into a teaming agreement with Electric Boat to build modules for the entire Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine program that leverages our Virginia class (SSN 774) experience. We have been awarded contracts from Electric Boat to begin integrated product and process development and provide long-lead-time material and advance construction for the Columbia class (SSBN 826) program. Construction of the first Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine is expected to begin in 2021.

Fleet support services Provide comprehensive life-cycle sustainment services to the U.S. Navy fleet and other DoD and commercial maritime customers. We provide services including maintenance, modernization, and repair on all ship classes; naval architecture, marine engineering, and design; integrated logistics support; technical documentation development; warehousing, asset management, and material readiness; operational and maintenance training development and delivery; software design and development; IT infrastructure support and data delivery and management; and cyber security and information assurance. We provide undersea vehicle and specialized craft development and prototyping services.

56

Table of Contents

--------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

USS Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Design and construction for the Ford class program, which is the aircraft carrier replacement program for the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and Nimitz class (CVN 68) aircraft carriers. USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), the first ship of the Ford class, was delivered to the U.S. Navy in the second quarter of 2017. In June 2015, we were awarded a contract for the detail design and construction of John F. Kennedy (CVN 79), following several years of engineering, advance construction, and purchase of long-lead time components and material. In addition, we have received awards for detail design and construction of Enterprise (CVN 80) and CVN 81 (unnamed). This category also includes the class' non-recurring engineering. The class is expected to bring improved warfighting capability, quality of life improvements for sailors, and reduced life cycle costs.

MDIS services Provide services including high-end information technology and mission-based solutions to DoD, intelligence, and federal civilian customers. Services include agile software engineering, development, and integration; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ("C4ISR") engineering and software integration; mobile application development and network engineering; modeling, simulation, and training; force protection and emergency management training and exercises; unmanned systems development, integration, operations, and maintenance; and mission-oriented intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance analytics.

Legend class National Security Cutter Design and build the U.S. Coast Guard's National Security Cutters ("NSCs"), the largest and most technically advanced class of cutter in the U.S. Coast Guard. The NSC is equipped to carry out maritime homeland security, maritime safety, protection of natural resources, maritime mobility, and national defense missions. The plan is for a total of 11 ships, of which the first six ships have been delivered. Kimball (NSC 7), Midgett (NSC 8), and Stone (NSC 9) are currently under construction.

Naval nuclear support services Provide services to and in support of the U.S. Navy, ranging from services supporting the Navy's carrier and submarine fleets to maintenance services at U.S. Navy training facilities. Naval nuclear support services include design, construction, maintenance, and disposal activities for in service U.S. Navy nuclear ships worldwide through mobile and in-house capabilities. Services include maintenance services on nuclear reactor prototypes.

Nuclear and environmental services Provide services in nuclear management and operations, and nuclear and non-nuclear fabrication and repair. We provide site management, nuclear and industrial facilities operations and maintenance, decontamination and decommissioning, and radiological and hazardous waste management services. We provide services, including fabrication, equipment repair, and technical engineering services. We participate in several joint ventures, including N3B, MSTS, and SRNS. N3B was awarded the Los Alamos Legacy Cleanup Contract at the DoE/National Nuclear Security Administration’s Los Alamos National Laboratory. MSTS was awarded a contract for site management and operations at the Nevada National Security Site. SRNS provides site management and operations at the DoE's Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina.

Oil and gas services Deliver engineering, procurement, and construction management services to the oil and gas industry for major pipeline, production, and treatment facilities. These services include full life-cycle services for domestic and international projects, from concept identification through detail design, execution and construction, and decommissioning. Related field services include survey, inspection, commissioning and start-up, operations and maintenance, and optimization and debottlenecking.

57

Table of Contents

---------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

San Antonio class (LPD 17) amphibious transport dock ships Design and build amphibious transport dock ships, which are warships that embark, transport, and land elements of a landing force for a variety of expeditionary warfare missions, and also serve as the secondary aviation platform for Amphibious Readiness Groups. The San Antonio class (LPD 17) is the newest addition to the U.S. Navy's 21st century amphibious assault force, and these ships are a key element of the U.S. Navy's seabase transformation. In 2013, we delivered USS Somerset (LPD 25), in 2016, we delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), and, in 2017, we delivered USS Portland (LPD 27). We are currently constructing Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28). The San Antonio class (LPD 17) currently includes a total of 11 ships.

The decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) Defuel and inactivate the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which began in 2013. The inactivation was completed in the second quarter of 2018.

Virginia class (SSN 774) fast attack submarines Construct attack submarines as the principal subcontractor to Electric Boat. The Virginia class (SSN 774) is a post-Cold War design tailored to excel in a wide range of warfighting missions, including anti-submarine and surface ship warfare; special operation forces; strike; intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; carrier and expeditionary strike group support; and mine warfare.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Securitization Activities Jefferies Group engages in securitization activities related to corporate loans, commercial mortgage loans, consumer loans and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. In securitization transactions, Jefferies Group transfers assets to special purpose entities ("SPEs") and acts as the placement or structuring agent for the beneficial interests sold to investors by the SPE. A significant portion of the securitization transactions are the securitization of assets issued or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. These SPEs generally meet the criteria of VIEs; however, the SPEs are generally not consolidated as Jefferies Group is not considered the primary beneficiary for these SPEs. F-47 Jefferies Group accounts for securitization transactions as sales, provided it has relinquished control over the transferred assets. Transferred assets are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in Principal transactions revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations prior to the identification and isolation for securitization. Subsequently, revenues recognized upon securitization are reflected as net underwriting revenues. Jefferies Group generally receives cash proceeds in connection with the transfer of assets to an SPE. Jefferies Group may, however, have continuing involvement with the transferred assets, which is limited to retaining one or more tranches of the securitization (primarily senior and subordinated debt securities in the form of mortgage- and other asset-backed securities or CLOs), which are included in Trading assets and are generally initially categorized as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Jefferies Group applies fair value accounting to the securities. The following table presents activity related to Jefferies Group's securitizations that were accounted for as sales in which it had continuing involvement (in millions): ----------------------------------------- --------------------...

[refer to Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff, BakerCorp and BlueLine acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision (benefit) for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EB...

[See Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20  ------- -----------------------

[See Note 13]:
Note 13. Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, and $15.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $12.1 billion, $16.5 billion, and $19.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): -------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- - - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current: Federal and state $ 3,826 $ 12,608 $ 2,153 Foreign 966 1,746 1,251 Total 4,792 14,354 3,404 Deferred: Federal and state (70 ) 220 907 Foreign (50 ) (43 ) (134 ) Total (120 ) 177 773 Provision for income taxes $ 4,672 $ 14,531 $ 4,177 The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments. 77 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of the year, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act has been completed as of December 31, 2018. One-time transition tax The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash ...

[See Note 17]:
Note 17. Income Taxes 82

[refer to Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff, BakerCorp and BlueLine acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision (benefit) for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EB...

[See Note 17]:
Note 17. Income Taxes 82

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff, BakerCorp and BlueLine acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision (benefit) for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EB...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13. Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, and $15.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $12.1 billion, $16.5 billion, and $19.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): -------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- - - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current: Federal and state $ 3,826 $ 12,608 $ 2,153 Foreign 966 1,746 1,251 Total 4,792 14,354 3,404 Deferred: Federal and state (70 ) 220 907 Foreign (50 ) (43 ) (134 ) Total (120 ) 177 773 Provision for income taxes $ 4,672 $ 14,531 $ 4,177 The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments. 77 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of the year, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act has been completed as of December 31, 2018. One-time transition tax The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash ...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Other Bets - Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 80 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Other Bets - Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 80 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13. Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, and $15.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $12.1 billion, $16.5 billion, and $19.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): -------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- - - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current: Federal and state $ 3,826 $ 12,608 $ 2,153 Foreign 966 1,746 1,251 Total 4,792 14,354 3,404 Deferred: Federal and state (70 ) 220 907 Foreign (50 ) (43 ) (134 ) Total (120 ) 177 773 Provision for income taxes $ 4,672 $ 14,531 $ 4,177 The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments. 77 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of the year, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act has been completed as of December 31, 2018. One-time transition tax The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash ...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Other Bets - Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 80 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Other Bets - Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 80 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc...

[see Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20  ------- -----------------------

['S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Our Business

Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. is America’s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, our Ingalls segment in Mississippi and Newport News segment in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. We also provide a range of services to the governmental, energy, and oil and gas markets through our Technical Solutions segment. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, HII employs approximately 40,000 people both domestically and internationally.

We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense technology programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. Our Technical Solutions segment provides a wide range of professional services, including fleet support, MDIS, nuclear and environmental, and oil and gas services.

The following discussion should be read along with the audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Environment

In August 2011, the BCA established limits on U.S. Government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion for fiscal years 2012 through 2021. The BCA also provided that the defense budget would face “sequestration” cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period, to the extent that discretionary spending limits are exceeded, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the U.S. Coast Guard.

The BBA 2018 provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and raised the budget topline for defense and non-defense discretionary spending. However, sequestration remains in effect for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. Long-term uncertainty remains with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years']:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31

['s underlying assets.

Management reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements, and additional pricing information to evaluate the NAV or its equivalent. For the limited group of investments for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. See Note 17: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in Item 8.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss - Changes in assumptions and changes to plan assets and benefit obligations due to differences between actuarial assumptions and actual results are reported as actuarial gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss along with unrecognized prior service costs arising from plan amendments. As disclosed in Note 17: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8, net pre-tax unrecognized actuarial losses as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $1,692 million and $1,459 million, respectively. The increase in these actuarial losses in 2018 was primarily driven by actual asset returns, which were $827 million below expected returns, $78 million of amortization of previously unrecognized actuarial losses, and a $538 million actuarial gain due to the increase in the discount rates used to determine benefit obligations.

Net pre-tax unrecognized prior service costs (credits) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $46 million and $47 million, respectively. These net deferred costs (credits) primarily originated from plan amendments, including those resulting from collective bargaining agreements. The change in unrecognized prior service costs (credits) in 2018 primarily resulted from amendments within a collective bargaining agreement, offset by the amortization of previously accumulated prior service costs (credits).

Workers']:
Note 17. Income Taxes 82

['s littoral combat ship and have expressed interest in the future frigate program.

The DoD continues to adjust its procurement practices and streamline acquisition organizations and processes in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. Additionally, the U.S. Navy must compete with other national priorities, including other defense activities, non-defense discretionary spending, and entitlement programs, for a share of federal budget funding. While the impact to our business resulting from these developments remains uncertain, they could have a material impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the DoD. See Risk Factors in Item 1A.

Program Descriptions

For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is included in the Glossary of Programs.

CONTRACTS

We generate most of our revenues from long-term U.S. Government contracts for design, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs, including allowable general and administrative expenses. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are treated as allowable and allocable costs under the FAR and CAS regulations. Examples of costs incurred by us that are not allowable under the FAR and CAS regulations include certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense, and advertising costs.

We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, the DCAA routinely audits the costs we incur that are allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government.

Our contracts typically fall into one of four categories: firm fixed-price, fixed-price incentive, cost-type, and time and materials. See Note 8: Revenue.

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Firm Fixed-Price Contracts - A firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is predetermined by bid or negotiation and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor.

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Fixed-Price Incentive Contracts - Fixed-price incentive contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor']:
(1) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of NES and Neff in April 2017 and October 2017, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of NES and Neff. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 does not include BakerCorp and BlueLine because we had not acquired them as of December 31, 2017. If the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine were included for the year ended December 31, 2017, estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 would have been 12.9 percent. Strategy 2  For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2019, we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single point of contact; - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------...

['s allowable costs plus a fee that represents profit. Cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its reasonable efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Time and Materials - Time and materials contracts specify a fixed hourly billing rate for each direct labor hour expended and reimbursement for allowable material costs and expenses.

Contract Fees - Negotiated contract fee structures include: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize contractors for under or over cost target performance, respectively, positive award fees, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, percentage-of-completion of the contract, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined.

32

Table of Contents

Award Fees - Certain contracts contain award fees based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on an evaluation by the customer of our performance against such negotiated criteria. We consider award fees to be variable consideration and generally include these fees in the transaction price using a most likely amount approach. Award fees are limited to the extent of funding allotted by the customer and available for performance and those amounts for which a significant reversal of revenue is not probable.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Management considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations and requires significant judgment and estimates by management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by our management. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. Due to the significant judgment involved in selecting certain of the assumptions used in these policies, it is possible that different parties could choose different assumptions and reach different conclusions. We consider our policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies:

- --------------------
• Revenue recognition;

- -----------------------------------------------------
• Purchase accounting, goodwill, and intangible assets;

- -------------------------------------------
• Litigation, commitments, and contingencies;

- -------------------------------------
• Retirement related benefit plans; and

- ----------------------
• Workers']:
(32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 91 ------- ------------------------------------------------------ 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
