================================================================================
CIK: 0000879169
Company Name: INCYTE CORP
Filing Date: 2019-02-14
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 03:15:49
================================================================================

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

   The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with “Selected Consolidated Financial Data” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Report.

   Overview

			Incyte is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary therapeutics. Our global headquarters is located in Wilmington, Delaware. We conduct our European clinical development operations from our offices in Geneva, Switzerland and Lausanne, Switzerland, and have recently opened our Japanese office in Tokyo.

			JAKAFI (ruxolitinib) is our first product to be approved for sale in the United States. It is an oral JAK1 and JAK2 inhibitor and was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high‑risk myelofibrosis and in December 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea. Myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera are both rare blood cancers.

			In June 2016, we acquired from ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (ARIAD) all of the outstanding shares of ARIAD Pharmaceuticals (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l., the parent company of ARIAD’s European subsidiaries responsible for the development and commercialization of ICLUSIG in the European Union and other countries, including Switzerland, Norway, Turkey, Israel and Russia. We obtained an exclusive license to develop and commercialize ICLUSIG in those countries. ICLUSIG is approved in the European Union for the treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia and Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia who are resistant to or intolerant of certain second-generation BCR-ABL inhibitors and all patients who have the T3151 mutation.

			Under our collaboration agreement with Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd., Novartis received exclusive development and commercialization rights to ruxolitinib outside of the United States for all hematologic and oncologic indications and sells ruxolitinib outside of the United States under the name JAKAVI. In April 2016, we amended this agreement to provide that Novartis has exclusive research, development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to ruxolitinib (excluding topical formulations) in the graft-versus-host-disease field.

			Under our collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly received exclusive worldwide development and commercialization rights to our second oral JAK1 and JAK2 inhibitor, baricitinib, for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In January 2016, Lilly submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA and a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) to the European Medicines Agency for baricitinib as treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. In February 2017, we and Lilly announced that the European Commission approved baricitinib as OLUMIANT for the treatment of

   54

   Table of Contents

moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to, one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. In July 2017, Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare granted marketing approval for OLUMIANT for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in patients with inadequate response to standard-of-care therapies.  In June 2018, the FDA approved the 2mg dose of OLUMIANT for the treatment of adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more tumor necrosis factor inhibitor therapies.

   Since we began our drug-discovery and development activities in early 2002, we have filed Investigational New Drug (IND) applications and progressed multiple internally developed proprietary compounds into clinical development.

   License Agreements and Business Relationships

   We establish business relationships, including collaborative arrangements with other companies and medical research institutions to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain of our drugs and drug candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies and medical research institutions.

   Below is a brief description of our significant business relationships and collaborations and related license agreements that expand our pipeline and provide us with certain rights to existing and potential new products and technologies.

   Novartis

			In November 2009, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Novartis. Under the terms of the agreement, Novartis received exclusive development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to ruxolitinib and certain back‑up compounds for hematologic and oncology indications, including all hematological malignancies, solid tumors and myeloproliferative diseases. We retained exclusive development and commercialization rights to JAKAFI (ruxolitinib) in the United States and in certain other indications. Novartis also received worldwide exclusive development and commercialization rights to our MET inhibitor compound capmatinib and certain back‑up compounds in all indications. We retained options to co‑develop and to co‑promote capmatinib in the United States.

			Under this agreement, we received an upfront payment and immediate milestone payment totaling $210.0 million and were initially eligible to receive additional payments of up to approximately $1.2 billion if defined development and commercialization milestones are achieved. We are also eligible to receive tiered, double‑digit royalties ranging from the upper‑teens to the mid‑twenties percent on future ruxolitinib net sales outside of the United States, and tiered, worldwide royalties on future capmatinib net sales that range from 12% to 14%. In addition, Novartis has received reimbursement and pricing approval for ruxolitinib in a specified number of countries, and we are now obligated to pay to Novartis tiered royalties in the low single-digits on future ruxolitinib net sales within the United States. Each company is responsible for costs relating to the development and commercialization of ruxolitinib in its respective territories, with costs of collaborative studies shared equally. Novartis is also responsible for all costs relating to the development and commercialization of capmatinib.

			In April 2016, we amended this agreement to provide that Novartis has exclusive research, development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to ruxolitinib (excluding topical formulations) in the GVHD field. Under this amendment, we received a $5.0 million payment in exchange for the development and commercialization rights to ruxolitinib in GVHD outside of the United States and became eligible to receive up to $75.0 million of additional potential development and regulatory milestones relating to GVHD.  In March 2017, we recognized a $25.0 million milestone for the first patient first visit in a GVHD study and in December 2017, we recognized a $40.0 million milestone for Novartis achieving annual net sales of a JAK licensed product of $600.0 million. In December 2018, we recognized a $60.0 million milestone for Novartis achieving annual net sales of a JAK licensed product of $900.0 million.

			The Novartis agreement will continue on a program‑by‑program basis until Novartis has no royalty payment obligations with respect to such program or, if earlier, the termination of the agreement or any program in accordance with

   55

   Table of Contents

the terms of the agreement. Royalties are payable by Novartis on a product‑by‑product and country‑by‑country basis until the latest to occur of (i) the expiration of the last valid claim of the licensed patent rights covering the licensed product in the relevant country, (ii) the expiration of regulatory exclusivity for the licensed product in such country and (iii) a specified period from first commercial sale in such country of the licensed product by Novartis or its affiliates or sublicensees. The agreement may be terminated in its entirety or on a program‑by‑program basis by Novartis for convenience. The agreement may also be terminated by either party under certain other circumstances, including material breach.

   Lilly

			In December 2009, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement with Lilly. Under the terms of the agreement, Lilly received exclusive worldwide development and commercialization rights to baricitinib and certain back‑up compounds for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. We received an initial payment of $90.0 million, and were initially eligible to receive additional payments of up to $665.0 million based on the achievement of defined development, regulatory and commercialization milestones.

			We retained options to co-develop our JAK1/JAK2 inhibitors with Lilly on a compound-by-compound and indication-by-indication basis. Lilly is responsible for all costs relating to the development and commercialization of the compounds unless we elect to co-develop any compounds or indications. If we elect to co-develop any compounds and/or indications, we would be responsible for funding 30% of the associated future global development costs from the initiation of a Phase IIb trial through regulatory approval, including post-launch studies required by a regulatory authority. We would receive an incremental royalty rate increase across all tiers resulting in effective royalty rates ranging up to the high twenties on potential future global net sales for compounds and/or indications that we elect to co-develop.  For indications that we elect not to co-develop, we would receive tiered, double-digit royalty payments on future global net sales with rates ranging up to 20% if the product is successfully commercialized. We previously had retained an option to co-promote products in the United States but, in March 2016, we waived our co-promotion option as part of an amendment to the agreement.

			In July 2010, we elected to co-develop baricitinib with Lilly in rheumatoid arthritis and we are responsible for funding 30% of the associated future global development costs for this indication from the initiation of the Phase IIb trial through regulatory approval, including post-launch studies required by a regulatory authority. We subsequently elected to co-develop baricitinib with Lilly in psoriatic arthritis, atopic dermatitis, alopecia areata, systemic lupus erythematosus and axial spondyloarthritis.

			In March 2016, we entered into an amendment to the agreement with Lilly that allows us to engage in the development and commercialization of ruxolitinib in the GVHD field. We paid Lilly an upfront payment of $35.0 million and Lilly is eligible to receive up to $40.0 million in additional regulatory milestone payments relating to ruxolitinib in the GVHD field.

			In February 2017, the European Commission announced the approval of baricitinib as OLUMIANT, triggering a $65.0 million milestone payment from Lilly.  In July 2017, Japan's MHLW granted marketing approval for OLUMIANT, triggering a $15.0 million milestone payment from Lilly.  In December 2017, we recognized a $30.0 million milestone payment for the first patient treated in the atopic dermatitis Phase III program for baricitinib. In June 2018, the FDA approved the 2mg dose of OLUMIANT, triggering a $100.0 million milestone payment from Lilly. In September 2018, we recognized a $20.0 million milestone payment for the first patient treated in systemic lupus erythematosus Phase III program for baricitinib.

			The Lilly agreement will continue until Lilly no longer has any royalty payment obligations or, if earlier, the termination of the agreement in accordance with its terms. Royalties are payable by Lilly on a product‑by‑product and country‑by‑country basis until the latest to occur of (i) the expiration of the last valid claim of the licensed patent rights covering the licensed product in the relevant country, (ii) the expiration of regulatory exclusivity for the licensed product in such country and (iii) a specified period from first commercial sale in such country of the licensed product by Lilly or its affiliates or sublicensees. The agreement may be terminated by Lilly for convenience, and may also be terminated under certain other circumstances, including material breach.

   56

   Table of Contents

   Agenus

			In January 2015, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement with Agenus Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, 4-Antibody AG (now known as Agenus Switzerland Inc.), which we collectively refer to as Agenus. Under this agreement, the parties have agreed to collaborate on the discovery of novel immuno-therapeutics using Agenus’ antibody discovery platforms. In February 2017, we and Agenus amended this agreement.

			Under the terms of this agreement, as amended, we received exclusive worldwide development and commercialization rights to four checkpoint modulators directed against GITR, OX40, LAG-3 and TIM-3. In addition to the initial four program targets, we and Agenus have the option to jointly nominate and pursue additional targets within the framework of the collaboration, and in November 2015, three more targets were added. Targets may be designated profit-share programs, where all costs and profits are shared equally by us and Agenus, or royalty-bearing programs, where we are responsible for all costs associated with discovery, preclinical, clinical development and commercialization activities. The programs relating to GITR and OX40 and two of the undisclosed targets were profit-share programs until February 2017, while the other targets currently under collaboration are royalty-bearing programs.  The February 2017 amendment converted the programs relating to GITR and OX40 to royalty-bearing programs and removed from the collaboration the profit-share programs relating to the two undisclosed targets, with one reverting to us and one reverting to Agenus.  Should any of those removed programs be successfully developed by a party, the other party will be eligible to receive the same milestone payments as the royalty-bearing programs and royalties at a 15% rate on global net sales.  There are currently no profit-share programs.  For each royalty-bearing product other than GITR and OX40, Agenus will be eligible to receive tiered royalties on global net sales ranging from 6% to 12%.  For GITR and OX40, Agenus will be eligible to receive 15% royalties on global net sales. Under the February 2017 amendment, we paid Agenus $20.0 million in accelerated milestones relating to the clinical development of the GITR and OX40 programs.  Agenus is eligible to receive up to an additional $510.0 million in future contingent development, regulatory and commercialization milestones across all programs in the collaboration.  The agreement may be terminated by us for convenience upon 12 months’ notice and may also be terminated under certain other circumstances, including material breach.

   Takeda (ARIAD)

			In June 2016, we acquired from ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. all of the outstanding shares of ARIAD Pharmaceuticals (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l., the parent company of ARIAD’s European subsidiaries responsible for the development and commercialization of ICLUSIG in the European Union and other countries.  We obtained an exclusive license to develop and commercialize ICLUSIG in Europe and other select countries. ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was subsequently acquired by Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited in 2017.  As such, Takeda will be eligible to receive from us tiered royalties on net sales of ICLUSIG in our territory and up to $135.0 million in potential future oncology development and regulatory approval milestone payments, together with additional milestone payments for non-oncology indications, if approved, in our territory.

   Merus

			In December 2016, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Merus N.V. Under this agreement, which became effective in January 2017, the parties have agreed to collaborate with respect to the research, discovery and development of bispecific antibodies utilizing Merus’ technology platform.  The collaboration encompasses up to eleven independent programs.

			The most advanced collaboration program is MCLA-145, a bispecific antibody targeting PD-L1 and CD137, for which we received exclusive development and commercialization rights outside of the United States. Merus retained exclusive development and commercialization rights in the United States to MCLA-145.  Each party will share equally the costs of mutually agreed global development activities for MCLA-145, and fund itself any independent development activities in its territory.  Merus will be responsible for commercializing MCLA-145 in the United States and we will be responsible for commercializing it outside of the United States.

			In addition to receiving rights to MCLA-145 outside of the United States, we received worldwide exclusive development and commercialization rights to up to ten additional programs.  Of these ten additional programs, Merus

   57

   Table of Contents

retained the option, subject to certain conditions, to co-fund development of up to two such programs.  If Merus exercises its co-funding option for a program, Merus would be responsible for funding 35% of the associated future global development costs and, for certain of such programs, would be responsible for reimbursing us for certain development costs incurred prior to the option exercise.  Merus will also have the right to participate in a specified proportion of detailing activities in the United States for one of those co-developed programs. All costs related to the co-funded collaboration programs are subject to joint research and development plans and overseen by a joint development committee, but we will have final determination as to such plans in cases of dispute.  We will be responsible for all research, development and commercialization costs relating to all other programs.

			In February 2017, we paid Merus an upfront non-refundable payment of $120.0 million. For each program as to which Merus does not have commercialization or development co-funding rights, Merus will be eligible to receive up to $100.0 million in future contingent development and regulatory milestones, and up to $250.0 million in commercialization milestones as well as tiered royalties ranging from 6% to 10% of global net sales.  For each program as to which Merus exercises its option to co-fund development, Merus will be eligible to receive a 50% share of profits (or sustain 50% of any losses) in the United States and be eligible to receive tiered royalties ranging from 6% to 10% of net sales of products outside of the United States.  If Merus opts to cease co-funding a program as to which it exercised its co-development option, then Merus will no longer receive a share of profits in the United States but will be eligible to receive the same milestones from the co-funding termination date and the same tiered royalties described above with respect to programs where Merus does not have a right to co-fund development and, depending on the stage at which Merus chose to cease co-funding development costs, Merus will be eligible to receive additional royalties ranging up to 4% of net sales in the United States.  For MCLA-145, we and Merus will each be eligible to receive tiered royalties on net sales in the other party’s territory at rates ranging from 6% to 10%.

			The Merus agreement will continue on a program-by-program basis until we have no royalty payment obligations with respect to such program or, if earlier, the termination of the agreement or any program in accordance with the terms of the agreement.  The agreement may be terminated in its entirety or on a program-by-program basis by us for convenience.  The agreement may also be terminated by either party under certain other circumstances, including material breach, as set forth in the agreement.  If the agreement is terminated with respect to one or more programs, all rights in the terminated programs revert to Merus, subject to payment to us of a reverse royalty of up to 4% on sales of future products, if Merus elects to pursue development and commercialization of products arising from the terminated programs.

   Calithera

			In January 2017, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Calithera Biosciences, Inc. Under this agreement, we received an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize small molecule arginase inhibitors, including INCB01158 (CB-1158), which is currently in Phase I clinical trials, for hematology and oncology indications. We have agreed to co-fund 70% of the global development costs for the development of the licensed products for hematology and oncology indications. Calithera will have the right to conduct certain clinical development under the collaboration, including combination studies of a licensed product with a proprietary compound of Calithera. We will be entitled to 60% of the profits and losses from net sales of licensed product in the United States, and Calithera will have the right to co-detail licensed products in the United States, and we have agreed to pay Calithera tiered royalties ranging from the low to mid-double digits on net sales of licensed products outside the United States. Calithera may opt out of its co-funding obligation, in which case the U.S. profit sharing will no longer be in effect, and we have agreed to pay Calithera tiered royalties ranging from the low to mid-double digits on net sales of licensed products both in the United States and outside the United States, and additional royalties to reimburse Calithera for previously incurred development costs. Calithera retains rights to certain arginase inhibitors that are not part of the collaboration for specific orphan indications outside of hematology and oncology, subject to our rights to negotiate a license for any such programs under specified circumstances if Calithera elects to out-license them.

			In January 2017, we paid Calithera an upfront license fee of $45.0 million and have agreed to pay potential development, regulatory and sales milestone payments of over $430.0 million if the profit share is in effect, or $750.0 million if the profit share terminates.

   58

   Table of Contents

			The Calithera agreement will continue on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis for so long as we are developing or commercializing products in the United States (if the parties are sharing profits in the United States) and until we have no further royalty payment obligations, unless earlier terminated according to the terms of the agreement. The agreement may be terminated in its entirety or on a product-by-product and/or a country-by-country basis by us for convenience. The agreement may also be terminated by us for Calithera’s uncured material breach, by Calithera for our uncured material breach and by either party for bankruptcy or patent challenge. If the agreement is terminated early with respect to one or more products or countries, all rights in the terminated products and countries revert to Calithera.

   MacroGenics

			In October 2017, we entered into a Global Collaboration and License Agreement with MacroGenics. Under this agreement, we received exclusive development and commercialization rights worldwide to MacroGenics’ INCMGA0012, an investigational monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-1. Except as set forth in the succeeding sentence, we will have sole authority over and bear all costs and expenses in connection with the development and commercialization of INCMGA0012 in all indications, whether as a monotherapy or as part of a combination regimen.  MacroGenics has retained the right to develop and commercialize, at its cost and expense, its pipeline assets in combination with INCMGA0012.  In addition, MacroGenics has the right to manufacture a portion of both companies’ global clinical and commercial supply needs of INCMGA0012.  In December 2017, we paid MacroGenics an upfront payment of $150.0 million. MacroGenics will be eligible to receive up to $420.0 million in future contingent development and regulatory milestones, and up to $330.0 million in commercial milestones as well as tiered royalties ranging from 15% to 24% of global net sales.

			The MacroGenics agreement will continue until we are no longer commercializing, developing or manufacturing INCMGA0012 or, if earlier, the termination of the agreement in accordance with its terms.  The agreement may be terminated in its entirety or on a licensed product by licensed product basis by us for convenience.  The agreement may also be terminated by either party under certain other circumstances, including material breach, as set forth in the agreement.

   Syros

			In January 2018, we entered into a target discovery, research collaboration and option agreement with Syros Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Under this agreement, Syros will use its proprietary gene control platform to identify novel therapeutic targets with a focus in myeloproliferative neoplasms and we have received options to obtain exclusive worldwide rights to intellectual property resulting from the collaboration for up to seven validated targets.  We will have exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize any therapies under the collaboration that modulate those validated targets.  We paid Syros $2.5 million in cash for access to proprietary technology and $7.5 million in cash for research and development services. We have agreed to pay Syros up to $54.0 million in target selection and option exercise fees should we decide to exercise all of our options under the agreement. For products resulting from the collaboration against each of the seven selected and validated targets, we have agreed to pay up to $50.0 million in potential development and regulatory milestones and up to $65.0 million in potential commercial milestones. Syros is also eligible to receive low single-digit royalties on net sales of products resulting from the collaboration.

   Innovent

			In December 2018, we entered into a research collaboration and licensing agreement with Innovent Biologics, Inc. Under the terms of this agreement, Innovent received exclusive development and commercialization rights to our clinical-stage product candidates pemigatinib, itacitinib and parsaclisib in hematology and oncology in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. In January 2019, we received an upfront payment under this agreement of $40.0 million. In addition, we are eligible to receive $20.0 million in connection with the first related IND filing in China, up to $129.0 million in potential development and regulatory milestones, and up to $202.5 million in potential commercial milestones. We are also eligible to receive tiered royalties from the high-teens to the low-twenties on future sales of products resulting from the collaboration. We retain an option to assist in the promotion of the three product candidates in the Innovent territories.

   59

   Table of Contents

   Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates

			The preparation of financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form our basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. See Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete list of our significant accounting policies.

			Revenue Recognition. We adopted the new accounting standard for the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 for the fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2018. Under this standard, we recognize revenue only when we have satisfied a performance obligation through transferring control of the promised good or service to a customer. Control, in this instance, may mean the ability to prevent other entities from directing the use of, and receiving benefit from, a good or service. The standard indicates that an entity must determine at contract inception whether it will transfer control of a promised good or service over time or satisfy the performance obligation at a point in time through analysis of the following criteria: (i) the entity has a present right to payment, (ii) the customer has legal title, (iii) the customer has physical possession, (iv) the customer has the significant risks and rewards of ownership and (v) the customer has accepted the asset. We assess collectability based primarily on the customer’s payment history and on the creditworthiness of the customer. For additional information on the new accounting standard for the recognition of revenue see Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

   Product Revenues

			Our product revenues consist of U.S. sales of JAKAFI and European sales of ICLUSIG.  Product revenues are recognized once we satisfy the performance obligation at a point in time under the revenue recognition criteria as described above. We recognize revenues for product received by our customers net of allowances for customer credits, including estimated rebates, chargebacks, discounts, returns, distribution service fees, patient assistance programs, and government rebates, such as Medicare Part D coverage gap reimbursements in the U.S. These sales allowances and accruals are recorded based on estimates which are described in detail below.  Estimates are assessed as of the end of each reporting period and are updated to reflect current information.  We believe that our sales allowances and accruals are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances.

			Customer Credits: Our customers are offered various forms of consideration, including allowances, service fees and prompt payment discounts. We expect our customers will earn prompt payment discounts and, therefore, we deduct the full amount of these discounts from total product sales when revenues are recognized. Service fees are also deducted from total product sales as they are earned.

			Rebates and Discounts:  We accrue rebates for mandated discounts under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program in the U.S. and mandated discounts in Europe in markets where government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for healthcare. These accruals are based on statutory discount rates and expected utilization as well as historical data we have accumulated since product launch. Our estimates for expected utilization of rebates are based on data received from our customers. Rebates are generally invoiced and paid in arrears so that the accrual balance consists of an estimate of the amount expected to be incurred for the current quarter’s activity, plus an accrual balance for known prior quarters’ unpaid rebates. If actual future rebates vary from estimates, we may need to adjust prior period accruals, which would affect revenue in the period of adjustment.

			Chargebacks: Chargebacks are discounts that occur when certain contracted customers purchase directly from our wholesalers at a discounted price. The wholesalers, in turn, charges back to us the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesalers and the discounted price paid by the contracted customers. In addition to actual chargebacks received, we maintain an accrual for chargebacks based on the estimated contractual discounts on the inventory levels on

   60

   Table of Contents

hand in our distribution channel.  If actual future chargebacks vary from these estimates, we may need to adjust prior period accruals, which would affect revenue in the period of adjustment.

			Medicare Part D Coverage Gap:  Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit mandates manufacturers to fund 50% of the Medicare Part D insurance coverage gap for prescription drugs sold to eligible patients. Our estimates for the expected Medicare Part D coverage gap are based on historical invoices received and in part from data received from our customers. Funding of the coverage gap is generally invoiced and paid in arrears so that the accrual balance consists of an estimate of the amount expected to be incurred for the current quarter’s activity, plus an accrual balance for known prior quarters. If actual future funding varies from estimates, we may need to adjust prior period accruals, which would affect revenue in the period of adjustment.

			Co-payment Assistance:  Patients who have commercial insurance and meet certain eligibility requirements may receive co-payment assistance. We accrue a liability for co-payment assistance based on actual program participation and estimates of program redemption using data provided by third-party administrators.

   Product Royalty Revenues

			Royalty revenues on commercial sales for JAKAVI by Novartis are estimated based on information provided by Novartis. Royalty revenues on commercial sales for OLUMIANT by Lilly are estimated based on information provided by Lilly. We exercise judgment in determining whether the information provided is sufficiently reliable for us to base our royalty revenue recognition thereon. If actual royalties vary from estimates, we may need to adjust the prior period, which would affect royalty revenue and receivable in the period of adjustment.

   Milestone and Contract Revenues

			Our license agreements often include contractual milestones, which typically relate to the achievement of pre-specified development, regulatory and commercialization events outside of our control, such as regulatory approval of a compound, first patient dosing or achievement of sales-based thresholds. For such cases, we believe that revenue related to these events should not be recognized until the milestone has been achieved.

			Stock Compensation.    Share-based payment transactions with employees, which include stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance shares (PSUs), are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period based on their estimated fair values at the date of grant as well as expected forfeiture rates based on actual experience. The stock compensation process requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding Black-Scholes assumptions such as stock price volatility over the option term and expected option lives, as well as expected forfeiture rates and the probability of PSUs vesting. The fair value of stock options, which are subject to graded vesting, are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period using the accelerated attribution method.  The fair value of RSUs that are subject to cliff vesting are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period using the straight-line attribution method, and the fair value of RSUs that are subject to graded vesting are recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period using the accelerated attribution method.  The fair value of PSUs are recognized as compensation expense beginning at the time in which the performance conditions are deemed probable of achievement. We assess the probably of achievement of performance conditions, including projected product revenues and clinical development milestones, as of the end of each reporting period. Once a performance condition is considered probable, we record compensation expense based on the portion of the service period elapsed to date with respect to that award, with a cumulative catch-up, net of estimated forfeitures, and recognize any remaining compensation expense, if any, over the remaining requisite service period using the straight-line attribution method for PSUs that are subject to cliff vesting and using the accelerated attribution method for PSUs that are subject to graded vesting.

			Income Taxes. We account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach to financial accounting for income taxes.  Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the basis differences are expected to reverse. We periodically assess the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets to an amount that is considered to be more-likely-than-

   61

   Table of Contents

not to be realizable. Our assessment considers recent cumulative earnings experience, projections of future taxable income (losses) and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.  When performing our assessment on projections of future taxable income (losses), we consider factors such as the likelihood of regulatory approval and commercial success of products currently under development, among other factors.   Significant judgment is required in making this assessment and, to the extent that a reversal of any portion of our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets is deemed appropriate, a tax benefit will be recognized against our income tax provision in the period of such reversal.

			We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit that is recorded for these positions is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We adjust the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts surrounding the uncertain positions. Any interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions are included within the tax provision.

			We record estimates and prepare and file tax returns in various jurisdictions across the U.S., Europe, and Asia based upon our interpretation of local tax laws and regulations.  While we exercise significant judgment when applying complex tax laws and regulations in these various taxing jurisdictions, many of our tax returns are open to audit, and may be subject to future tax, interest, and penalty assessments.

   We believe our estimates for the valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets and the amount of benefits associated with uncertain tax positions recognized in our financial statements are appropriate based upon our assessment of the factors mentioned above.

			Acquisition-related contingent consideration.  Acquisition-related contingent consideration, which consists of our future royalty and certain potential milestone obligations to ARIAD/Takeda, was recorded on the acquisition date at the estimated fair value of the obligation, in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined using an income approach based on estimated ICLUSIG revenues in the European Union and other countries. As the fair value measurement is based on significant inputs that are unobservable in the market, this represents a Level 3 measurement.

			The fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration is remeasured each reporting period, with changes in fair value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The assumptions used to determine the fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration include projected ICLUSIG revenues and discount rates which, require significant judgement and are analyzed on a quarterly basis. While we use the best available information to prepare our projected ICLUSIG revenues and discount rate assumptions, actual ICLUSIG revenues and/or market conditions could differ significantly.  Changes to one or multiple inputs could have a material impact on the amount of acquisition-related contingent consideration expense recorded during the reporting period.

   62

   Table of Contents

   Results of Operations

			Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017

			We recorded net income for the year ended December 31, 2018 of $109.5 million and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 of $313.1 million. On a per share basis, basic net income was $0.52 and diluted net income was $0.51 for the year ended December 31, 2018.  On a per share basis, basic and diluted net loss was $1.53 for the year ended December 31, 2017.

   Revenues

--------------------------------- ------------------- ------- ---- - -------
 For the Year Ended,
 December 31,
 2018 2017
 (in millions)
JAKAFI revenues, net $ 1,387.0 $ 1,133.4
ICLUSIG revenues, net 79.9 66.9
Total product revenues, net 1,466.9 1,200.3
JAKAVI product royalty revenues 194.7 151.7
OLUMIANT product royalty revenues 40.1 9.1
Total product royalty revenues 234.8 160.8
Milestone and contract revenues 180.0 175.0
Other revenues 0.2 0.1
Total revenues $ 1,881.9 $ 1,536.2

			Our product revenues, net for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, were $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. The increase in JAKAFI product revenues was comprised of a volume increase of $166.1 million and a price increase of $87.5 million. Our product revenues may fluctuate from period to period due to our customers’ purchasing patterns over the course of a year, including as a result of increased inventory building by customers in advance of expected or announced price increases. Product revenues are recorded net of estimated product returns, pricing discounts including rebates offered pursuant to mandatory federal and state government programs and chargebacks, prompt pay discounts and distribution fees and co-pay assistance. Our revenue recognition policies require estimates of the aforementioned sales allowances each period.

   The following table provides a summary of activity with respect to our sales allowances and accruals:

----------------------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- - ---------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ---------
 Co-Pay
 Discounts and Government Assistance
 Distribution Rebates and and Other Product
Year Ended December 31, 2018 Fees Chargebacks Discounts Returns Total
Balance at January 1, 2018 $ 4,080 $ 30,938 $ 338 $ 1,692 $ 37,048
Allowances for current period sales 41,299 193,246 6,501 1,361 242,407
Allowances for prior period sales 40 1,153 6 76 1,275
Credits/payments for current period sales (36,602) (162,840) (6,205) (68) (205,715)
Credits/payments for prior period sales (3,692) (22,760) (93) (791) (27,336)
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ 5,125 $ 39,737 $ 547 $ 2,270 $ 47,679

			Government rebates and chargebacks are the most significant component of our sales allowances. Increases in certain government reimbursement rates are limited to a measure of inflation, and when the price of a drug increases faster than this measure of inflation it will result in a penalty adjustment factor that causes a larger sales allowance to those government related entities. We expect government rebates and chargebacks as a percentage of our gross product sales will continue to increase in connection with any future JAKAFI price increases greater than the rate of inflation, and any such increase in these government rebates and chargebacks will have a negative impact on our reported product revenues, net. We adjust our estimates for government rebates and chargebacks based on new information regarding actual rebates as it becomes available.  Claims by third-party payors for rebates and chargebacks are frequently submitted after the period

   63

   Table of Contents

in which the related sales occurred, which may result in adjustments to prior period accrual balances in the period in which the new information becomes available.  We also adjust our allowance for product returns based on new information regarding actual returns as it becomes available.

			We expect our sales allowances to fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of the Medicare Part D Coverage Gap, the volume of purchases eligible for government mandated discounts and rebates as well as changes in discount percentages which are impacted by potential future price increases, rate of inflation, and other factors.

   Product royalty revenues on commercial sales of JAKAVI by Novartis are based on net sales of licensed products in licensed territories as provided by Novartis. Product royalty revenues on commercial sales of OLUMIANT by Lilly are based on net sales of licensed products in licensed territories as provided by Lilly.

			Our milestone and contract revenues were $180.0 million and $175.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and were derived from milestone payments from Lilly and Novartis earned during the period. During the year ended December 31, 2018, under the Lilly agreement, we recognized a $20.0 million development milestone for the first patient treated in systemic lupus erythematosus Phase III program for baricitinib and a $100.0 million regulatory milestone for the approval of the 2mg dose of OLUMIANT for the treatment of moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients by the FDA and under the Novartis agreement, we recognized a $60.0 million milestone for Novartis achieving annual net sales of a JAK licensed product of $900.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, under the Lilly agreement, we recognized a $30.0 million development milestone for the first patient treated in the atopic dermatitis Phase III program for baricitinib, $15.0 million regulatory milestone for the approval of baricitinib for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare and a $65.0 million regulatory milestone for the approval of baricitinib for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients by the European Commission and under the Novartis agreement, we recognized a $40.0 million sales milestone for Novartis achieving annual net sales of a JAK licensed product of $600.0 million and a $25.0 million development milestone based on the formal initiation by Novartis of a Phase III clinical trial evaluating ruxolitinib in GVHD.

   Cost of Product Revenues

------------------------------------------------ ------------------- ---- ---- - ----
 For the Year Ended,
 December 31,
 2018 2017
 (in millions)
Product costs $ 9.6 $ 7.5
Royalty expense 63.0 50.5
Amortization of definite-lived intangible assets 21.5 21.5
Total cost of product revenues $ 94.1 $ 79.5

			Cost of product revenues includes all JAKAFI related product costs, all ICLUSIG related product costs, low single-digit royalties to Novartis on all sales of JAKAFI in the United States and amortization of our licensed intellectual property for ICLUSIG using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of 12.5 years. Cost of product revenues increased from 2017 to 2018 due primarily to increased royalties to Novartis on all JAKAFI sales in the United States.

   64

   Table of Contents

   Operating Expenses

   Research and development expenses

--------------------------------------- -------------------- ------- ---- - -------
 For the Years Ended,
 December 31,
 2018 2017
 (in millions)
Salary and benefits related $ 216.1 $ 198.1
Stock compensation 101.1 90.4
Clinical research and outside services 779.0 956.8
Occupancy and all other costs 101.8 80.8
Total research and development expenses $ 1,198.0 $ 1,326.1

			We account for research and development costs by natural expense line and not costs by project. Salary and benefits related expense increased from 2017 to 2018 due primarily to increased development headcount to sustain our development pipeline. Stock compensation expense may fluctuate from period to period based on the number of awards granted, stock price volatility and expected award lives, as well as expected award forfeiture rates which are used to value equity‑based compensation.

			The decrease in clinical research and outside services expense from 2017 to 2018 was primarily due to upfront and milestone expenses related to our collaborative agreements. Specifically, we recorded $359.1 million related to our collaborative agreements with Agenus, Calithera, MacroGenics and Merus during 2017 and $52.4 million related mainly to our collaborative agreements with Agenus, MacroGenics and Syros during 2018.  Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were net of $10.5 million and $18.6 million, respectively, of costs reimbursed by our collaborative partners. In addition to one-time expenses resulting from upfront fees in connection with the entry into any new or amended collaboration agreements, research and development expenses may fluctuate from period to period depending upon the stage of certain projects and the level of pre‑clinical and clinical trial related activities. Many factors can affect the cost and timing of our clinical trials, including requests by regulatory agencies for more information, inconclusive results requiring additional clinical trials, slow patient enrollment, adverse side effects among patients, insufficient supplies for our clinical trials and real or perceived lack of effectiveness or safety of our investigational drugs in our clinical trials. In addition, the development of all of our products will be subject to extensive governmental regulation. These factors make it difficult for us to predict the timing and costs of the further development and approval of our products.

			In July 2010, we elected to co‑develop baricitinib with Lilly in rheumatoid arthritis and we are responsible for funding 30% of the associated future global development costs for this indication from the initiation of the Phase IIb trial through regulatory approval. We subsequently elected to co-develop baricitinib with Lilly in psoriatic arthritis, atopic dermatitis, alopecia areata, systemic lupus erythematosus and axial spondyloarthritis and are responsible for funding 30% of future global development costs for those indications through regulatory approval, including post-launch studies required by a regulatory authority. Research and development expenses recorded under the Lilly agreement representing 30% of the global development costs for baricitinib for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, atopic dermatitis, alopecia areata, systematic lupus erythematosus and axial spondyloarthritis were $68.6 million and $40.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We have retained certain mechanisms to give us cost protection as baricitinib advances in clinical development. We can defer our portion of co-development study costs by indication if they exceed a predetermined level. This deferment would be credited against future milestones or royalties and we would still be eligible for the full incremental royalties related to the co-development option. In addition, even if we have started co-development funding for any indication, we can at any time opt out, which will stop future co-development cost sharing. If we elect to do this we would still be eligible for our base royalties plus an incremental pro-rated royalty commensurate with our contribution to the total co-development cost for those indications for which we contributed funding.

			During the year ended December 31, 2017, we wrote-off the acquired IPR&D asset of $12.0 million due to the discontinuation of the OPTIC-2L study, which was recorded in research and development expense on the consolidated statements of operations.

   65

   Table of Contents

   Selling, general and administrative expenses

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----- ---- - -----
 For the Years Ended,
 December 31,
 2018 2017
 (in millions)
Salary and benefits related $ 114.3 $ 105.6
Stock compensation 47.1 42.7
Other contract services and outside costs 273.0 218.0
Total selling, general and administrative expenses $ 434.4 $ 366.3

			Salary and benefits related expense increased from 2017 to 2018 due to increased headcount. This increased headcount was due primarily to the ongoing commercialization efforts related to JAKAFI for intermediate or high‑risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera, as well as increased headcount related to our European operations.    Stock compensation expense may fluctuate from period to period based on the number of awards granted, stock price volatility and expected award lives, as well as expected award forfeiture rates which are used to value equity‑based compensation. The increase in other contract services and outside costs was primarily the result of an increase in donations to independent non-profit patient assistance organizations in the United States and additional costs related to the commercialization of JAKAFI.

   Change in fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration

			Acquisition-related contingent consideration, which consists of our future royalty and certain potential milestone obligations to Takeda, was recorded on the acquisition date, June 1, 2016, at the estimated fair value of the obligation, in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration is remeasured quarterly.  The change in fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $26.2 million and $7.7 million, respectively. The change in fair value of the contingent consideration for the year ended December 31, 2018 was due primarily to the passage of time as there were no other significant changes in the key assumptions during the periods. The change in fair value of the contingent consideration for the year ended December 31, 2017 was due to the passage of time and a benefit of $24.0 million recorded during the third quarter of 2017 related to the lack of expected future sales royalties payable due to the discontinued OPTIC-2L clinical trial.

   Other income (expense)

			Other income (expense), net.  Other income (expense), net, for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $31.8 million and $17.2 million, respectively. The increase in other income (expense), net primarily relates to interest income and refundable research and development credits from the state of Delaware.

			Interest expense.  Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, was $1.5 million and $6.9 million, respectively. Included in interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $1.2 million and $6.1 million, respectively, of non‑cash charges to amortize the discounts on our convertible senior notes due November 2018 and November 2020.

			Unrealized loss on long term investments. Unrealized gains and losses on long term investments will fluctuate from period to period, based on the change in fair value of the securities we hold in our publicly held collaboration partners. With respect to our long term investment in Agenus, the unrealized loss on investment for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, was $15.6 million and $13.6 million, respectively. With respect to our long term investment in Merus, the unrealized loss on investment for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, was $17.3 million and $10.7 million, respectively. With respect to our long term investment in Calithera, the unrealized loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $7.5 million. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the unrealized gain on investment in Calithera of $2.8 million was recorded within other comprehensive income, prior to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-01, as described in Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. With respect to our long term investment in Syros, the unrealized loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $3.7 million.

   66

   Table of Contents

			Expense related to senior note conversions. Expense related to senior note conversions for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $54.9 million on the conversions of our 2018 Notes and 2020 Notes.

			Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, was $5.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively.  The increase in provision for income taxes primarily related to an increase in state taxes due to higher taxable income in 2018 sourced to certain states.

			Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016

			We recorded a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 of $313.1 million and net income for the year ended December 31, 2016 of $104.2 million. On a per share basis, basic and diluted net loss was $1.53 for the year ended December 31, 2017.  On a per share basis, basic net income was $0.55 and diluted net income was $0.54 for the year ended December 31, 2016.

   Revenues

--------------------------------- ------------------- ------- ---- - -------
 For the Year Ended,
 December 31,
 2017 2016
 (in millions)
JAKAFI revenues, net $ 1,133.4 $ 852.8
ICLUSIG revenues, net 66.9 29.6
Total product revenues, net 1,200.3 882.4
JAKAVI product royalty revenues 151.7 110.7
OLUMIANT product royalty revenues 9.1 —
Total product royalty revenues 160.8 110.7
Milestone and contract revenues 175.0 112.5
Other revenues 0.1 0.1
Total revenues $ 1,536.2 $ 1,105.7

			Our product revenues, net for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, were $1.2 billion and $882.4 million, respectively. The increase in JAKAFI product revenues was comprised of a volume increase of $204.6 million and a price increase of $76.0 million. ICLUSIG product revenues commenced in June 2016 following the Acquisition.

   The following table provides a summary of activity with respect to our sales allowances and accruals for the year ended December 31, 2017:

----------------------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- - ---------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ---------
 Co-Pay
 Discounts and Government Assistance
 Distribution Rebates and and Other Product
Year Ended December 31, 2017 Fees Chargebacks Discounts Returns Total
Balance at January 1, 2017 $ 2,818 $ 22,412 $ 199 $ 1,211 $ 26,640
Allowances for current period sales 32,822 141,884 4,051 1,861 180,618
Allowances for prior period sales (59) (1,883) (10) (353) (2,305)
Credits/payments for current period sales (30,701) (114,312) (3,885) (91) (148,989)
Credits/payments for prior period sales (800) (17,163) (17) (936) (18,916)
Balance at December 31, 2017 $ 4,080 $ 30,938 $ 338 $ 1,692 $ 37,048

   Government rebates and chargebacks are the most significant component of our sales allowances. Increases in certain government reimbursement rates are limited to a measure of inflation, and when the price of a drug increases faster than this measure of inflation it will result in a penalty adjustment factor that causes a larger sales allowance to those government related entities.

			Our milestone and contract revenues were $175.0 million and $112.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2017, milestone and contract revenues were derived from

   67

   Table of Contents

milestone payments from Lilly and Novartis earned during the period. For the year ended December 31, 2016, milestone and contract revenues were derived from the straight-line recognition of revenue associated with the Lilly upfront fees over the estimated performance period as well as milestone payments from Lilly and Novartis earned during the period. The upfront fees related to the Lilly agreement consisted of a $90.0 million upfront payment received in 2010. The increase in milestone and contract revenues from 2016 to 2017 primarily relates to the recognition of $45.0 million in milestone payments from Novartis, $55.0 million in milestone payments from Lilly and $12.5 million in revenue from the Lilly upfront fees in 2016 compared to the recognition of $65.0 million in milestone payments from Novartis and $110.0 million in milestone payments from Lilly in 2017.

   Cost of Product Revenues

------------------------------------------------ ------------------- ---- ---- - ----
 For the Year Ended,
 December 31,
 2017 2016
 (in millions)
Product costs $ 7.5 $ 8.8
Royalty expense 50.5 36.8
Amortization of definite-lived intangible assets 21.5 12.6
Total cost of product revenues $ 79.5 $ 58.2

			Cost of product revenues includes all JAKAFI related product costs, all ICLUSIG related product costs and low single-digit royalties to Novartis on all sales of JAKAFI in the United States. The ICLUSIG inventories were recorded at fair value less costs to sell in connection with the Acquisition, which resulted in a higher cost of ICLUSIG product revenues over a one year period from the acquisition date.  Subsequent to the Acquisition on June 1, 2016, cost of product revenues also included the amortization of our licensed intellectual property for ICLUSIG using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of 12.5 years.

			Cost of product revenues was $79.5 million and $58.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Cost of product revenues increased from 2016 to 2017 due primarily to an increase of $13.7 million in royalties to Novartis on all JAKAFI sales in the United States and amortization of $8.9 million of our licensed intellectual property acquired on June 1, 2016.

   Operating Expenses

   Research and development expenses

--------------------------------------- -------------------- ------- ---- - -----
 For the Years Ended,
 December 31,
 2017 2016
 (in millions)
Salary and benefits related $ 198.4 $ 138.1
Stock compensation 90.4 59.6
Clinical research and outside services 956.8 328.0
Occupancy and all other costs 80.8 56.2
Total research and development expenses $ 1,326.4 $ 581.9

			The increase in clinical research and outside services expense from 2016 to 2017 was primarily due to upfront and milestone expenses related to our collaborative agreements, as well as an overall increase in development costs to advance our clinical pipeline.  Specifically, we recorded $359.1 million in charges for the new Calithera, MacroGenics and Merus agreements, and the amended Agenus agreement, during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were net of $18.6 million and $13.4 million, respectively, of costs reimbursed by our collaborative partners.

   68

   Table of Contents

			Research and development expenses recorded under the Lilly agreement representing 30% of the global development costs for baricitinib for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis were $40.8 million and $27.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

			During the year ended December 31, 2017, we wrote-off the acquired IPR&D asset of $12.0 million due to the discontinuation of the OPTIC-2L study, which was recorded in research and development expense on the consolidated statements of operations.

   Selling, general and administrative expenses

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----- ---- - -----
 For the Years Ended,
 December 31,
 2017 2016
 (in millions)
Salary and benefits related $ 105.7 $ 80.8
Stock compensation 42.7 36.6
Other contract services and outside costs 218.0 185.9
Total selling, general and administrative expenses $ 366.4 $ 303.3

			Salary and benefits related expense increased from 2016 to 2017 due to increased headcount. This increased headcount was due primarily to the ongoing commercialization efforts related to JAKAFI for intermediate or high‑risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera, as well as increased headcount related to the Acquisition on June 1, 2016 and subsequent expansion of our European commercial and development operations. Stock compensation expense may fluctuate from period to period based on the number of awards granted, stock price volatility and expected award lives, as well as expected award forfeiture rates which are used to value equity‑based compensation. The increase in other contract services and outside costs was primarily the result of marketing activities for JAKAFI for intermediate or high‑risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera in addition to an increase in donations to independent non-profit patient assistance organizations in the United States. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 included expenses related to the Acquisition on June 1, 2016.

   Change in fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration

			Acquisition-related contingent consideration, which consists of our future royalty and certain potential milestone obligations to ARIAD/Takeda, was recorded on the acquisition date, June 1, 2016, at the estimated fair value of the obligation, in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration was remeasured as of December 31, 2017, resulting in expense of $7.7 million which is recorded in change in fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration on the consolidated statements of operations.  The change in fair value of the contingent consideration for the year ended December 31, 2017 was due to the passage of time and a benefit of $24.0 million recorded during the third quarter of 2017 related to the lack of expected future sales royalties payable due to the discontinued OPTIC-2L clinical trial. The change in fair value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $17.4 million. The change in fair value of the contingent consideration as of December 31, 2016 was primarily due to the time value of money as there were no other significant changes in the key assumptions used in the fair value calculation at the date of acquisition, including the discount rate utilized and the estimated future projections of ICLUSIG revenues.

   Other income (expense)

			Other income (expense), net.  Other income (expense), net, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $17.5 million and $4.4 million, respectively. The increase in other income (expense), net primarily related to refundable research and development credits from the state of Delaware.

   69

   Table of Contents

			Interest expense.  Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, was $6.9 million and $38.7 million, respectively. Included in interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $6.1 million and $31.6 million, respectively, of non‑cash charges to amortize the discounts on our convertible senior notes due November 2018 and November 2020.

			Unrealized loss on long term investments. The unrealized loss on our long term investment in Agenus for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, was $13.6 million and $3.3 million, respectively. The unrealized loss on our long term investment in Merus for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $10.7 million.

			Expense related to senior note conversions. Expense related to senior note conversions for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $54.9 million on the conversions of our convertible senior notes due November 2018 and November 2020.

			Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, was $0.9 million and $3.2 million, respectively. The decrease in provision for income taxes primarily related to a decrease in state taxes due to lower taxable income in 2017 sourced to certain states partially offset by increased foreign tax expense on our first full year of ICLUSIG product revenues.

   Liquidity and Capital Resources

------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------- ---- - ------- - -------
 2018 2017 2016
 (in millions)
December 31:
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 1,438.3 $ 1,169.6 $ 808.5
Working capital $ 1,407.0 $ 1,129.5 $ 720.7
Year ended December 31:
Cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 336.2 $ (93.0) $ 304.8
Investing activities $ (86.4) $ (350.0) $ (232.5)
Financing activities $ 14.7 $ 690.2 $ 44.6
Capital expenditures (included in investing activities above) $ (73.5) $ (111.0) $ (120.3)

   Sources and Uses of Cash.

			Due to historical net losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2018. We have funded our research and development operations through sales of equity securities, the issuance of convertible notes, cash received from customers, and collaborative arrangements. At December 31, 2018, we had available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $1.4 billion. Our cash and marketable securities balances are held in a variety of interest-bearing instruments, including money market accounts, corporate debt securities and U.S. government securities. Available cash is invested in accordance with our investment policy’s primary objectives of liquidity, safety of principal and diversity of investments.

			Cash provided by (used in) operating activities.  The $429.2 million increase in cash provided by operating activities from 2017 to 2018 was due primarily to our increased product revenues, decreases in payments made to our collaborative partners for new or amended arrangements and changes in working capital. The $397.8 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities from 2016 to 2017 was due primarily to the payments made to our collaborative partners in 2017 and changes in working capital.

			Cash used in investing activities.  Our investing activities, other than purchases, sales and maturities of marketable securities, have consisted predominantly of capital expenditures and purchases of long term investments. During 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $86.4 million, which represents purchases of marketable securities of $159.9 million, capital expenditures of $73.5 million, and purchases of long term investments of $8.9 million, offset in part by the sale and maturity of marketable securities of $155.9 million. During 2017, net cash used in investing activities was $350.0 million, which represents purchases of marketable securities of $260.8 million, capital expenditures

   70

   Table of Contents

of $111.0 million, and purchases of long term investments of $123.9 million, offset in part by the sale and maturity of marketable securities of $145.7 million.  During 2016, net cash used in investing activities was $232.5 million, which represents purchases of marketable securities of $57.4 million, capital expenditures of $120.3 million, and acquisition of ARIAD Pharmaceuticals (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l. for net cash of $142.9 million, offset in part by the sale and maturity of marketable securities of $88.0 million. In the future, net cash used by investing activities may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to the timing of strategic equity investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures and maturities/sales and purchases of marketable securities.

			Cash provided by financing activities.  During 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $14.7 million, consisting primarily of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock plans, offset in part by cash paid to ARIAD/Takeda for contingent consideration. During 2017, net cash provided by financing activities was $690.2 million, consisting primarily of proceeds from issuance of common stock in our September 2017 public offering and, to a lesser extent, proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock plans, offset in part by cash paid to ARIAD/Takeda for contingent consideration and cash paid in connection with senior note conversions. During 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $44.6 million, consisting primarily of proceeds from issuance of common stock under our stock plans, offset in part by cash paid to ARIAD/Takeda for contingent consideration.

   The following summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions):

------------------------------------ ----- ---- ------ --------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------- ---- --- - ----
 Less Than Years Years Over
 Total 1 Year 2 - 3 4 - 5 5 Years
Contractual Obligations:
Principal on convertible senior debt $ 19.1 $ — $ 19.1 $ — $ —
Interest on convertible senior debt 0.4 0.2 0.2 — —
Non-cancelable lease obligations 71.7 13.6 13.4 8.8 35.9
Total contractual obligations $ 91.2 $ 13.8 $ 32.7 $ 8.8 $ 35.9

			We have entered into and may in the future seek to license additional rights relating to technologies or drug development candidates in connection with our drug discovery and development programs. Under these licenses, we may be required to pay upfront fees, milestone payments, and royalties on sales of future products, which are not reflected in the table above.

			In February 2018, we signed an agreement to rent a building in Morges, Switzerland for an initial term of 15 years, with multiple options to extend for an additional 20 years. The building will undergo extensive renovations prior to our occupation and, when completed, will serve as our new European headquarters. Once construction is complete, our future rental payments over the 15 year term are approximately $41.9 million, which excludes the remaining build-out costs to be paid by us.

			We believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future. Our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including our expenditures in connection with our drug discovery and development programs and commercialization operations; expenditures in connection with litigation or other legal proceedings; costs for future facility requirements; our receipt of any milestone or other payments under any collaborative agreements we may enter into, including the agreements with Novartis, Lilly and Innovent; and expenditures in connection with strategic relationships and license agreements, including our agreements with Agenus, ARIAD/Takeda, Calithera, Lilly, MacroGenics, Merus and Syros, strategic equity investments or potential acquisitions. To the extent we seek to augment our existing cash resources and cash flow from operations to satisfy our cash requirements for future acquisitions or other strategic purposes, we expect that additional funding can be obtained through equity or debt financings or from other sources. The sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our holders of common stock. Debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness.

   71

   Table of Contents

   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

   We have no off‑balance sheet arrangements other than those that are discussed above.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 1]:
(1) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of NES and Neff in April 2017 and October 2017, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of NES and Neff. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 does not include BakerCorp and BlueLine because we had not acquired them as of December 31, 2017. If the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine were included for the year ended December 31, 2017, estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 would have been 12.9 percent. Strategy 2  For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2019, we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single point of contact; - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------...

[see Note 1]:
(1) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of NES and Neff in April 2017 and October 2017, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of NES and Neff. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 does not include BakerCorp and BlueLine because we had not acquired them as of December 31, 2017. If the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine were included for the year ended December 31, 2017, estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 would have been 12.9 percent. Strategy 2  For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2019, we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single point of contact; - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------...
