================================================================================
CIK: 0001754301
Company Name: Fox Corp
Filing Date: 2019-08-09
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 07:27:46
================================================================================

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by Fox Corporation (“FOX” or the “Company”) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). This section should be read together with the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The consolidated and combined financial statements are referred to as the “Financial Statements” herein. A detailed review of the Company’s fiscal 2019 performance compared to fiscal 2018 appears below under “Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A detailed review of the Company’s fiscal 2018 performance compared to fiscal 2017 appears under “Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended and filed with the SEC on January 7, 2019.

INTRODUCTION

The Distribution

On March 19, 2019, the Company became a standalone publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (now known as TFCF Corporation) (“21CF”) of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of FOX to 21CF stockholders (other than holders that were subsidiaries of 21CF) (the “Distribution”) in accordance with the Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 20, 2018, by and between 21CF and 21CF Distribution Merger Sub, Inc. Following the Distribution, 354,328,270 and 266,173,651 shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Class A Common Stock”), and Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Class B Common Stock” and, together with the Class A Common Stock, the “Common Stock”), respectively, began trading independently on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. In connection with the Distribution, the Company entered into the Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of March 19, 2019 (the “Separation Agreement”), with 21CF, which effected the internal restructuring (the “Separation”) whereby 21CF transferred to FOX a portfolio of 21CF’s news, sports and broadcast businesses, including FOX News Media (consisting of FOX News and FOX Business), the FOX Network, FOX Sports, FOX Television Stations, and sports cable networks FS1, FS2, FOX Deportes and Big Ten Network (collectively, the “FOX business”), and certain other assets, and FOX assumed from 21CF the liabilities associated with such businesses and certain other liabilities. The Separation and the Distribution were effected as part of a series of transactions contemplated by the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 20, 2018 (the “21CF Disney Merger Agreement”), by and among 21CF, The Walt Disney Company (“Disney”) and certain subsidiaries of Disney, pursuant to which, among other things, 21CF became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Disney.

Pursuant to the 21CF Disney Merger Agreement, immediately prior to the Distribution, the Company paid to 21CF a dividend in the amount of $8.5 billion (the “Dividend”). The final determination of the taxes in respect of the Separation and the Distribution for which the Company is responsible pursuant to the 21CF Disney Merger Agreement and a prepayment of the estimated taxes in respect of divestitures (collectively, the “Transaction Tax”) was $6.5 billion. Following the Distribution, on March 20, 2019 the Company received a cash payment in the amount of $2.0 billion from Disney, which had the net effect of reducing the Dividend the Company paid to 21CF. The Transaction Tax included a prepayment of the Company’s share of the estimated tax liabilities resulting from the anticipated divestitures by Disney of certain assets, principally the FOX Sports Regional Sports Networks. This prepayment was in the amount of approximately $700 million and is subject to adjustment in the future, when the actual amounts of the tax liabilities are reported on the federal income tax returns of Disney or a subsidiary of Disney.

As a result of the Separation and the Distribution, which was a taxable transaction for which the estimated tax liability of $5.8 billion was included in the Transaction Tax paid by the Company, FOX obtained a tax basis in its assets equal to their respective fair market values. This will result in estimated annual tax deductions of approximately $1.5 billion, principally over the next 15 years related to the amortization of the additional tax basis. This amortization is estimated to reduce the Company’s annual cash tax liability by $370 million per year at the current combined federal and state applicable tax rate of 25%. Such estimates are subject to revisions, which could be material, based upon the occurrence of future events including, among other things, a refund of the prepayment discussed above.

In connection with the Separation, the Company entered into several agreements that govern certain aspects of the Company’s relationship with 21CF and Disney following the Separation. These include the Separation Agreement, a tax matters agreement, a transition services agreement, as well as agreements relating to intellectual property licenses, employee matters, commercial arrangements and a studio lot lease (See Note 1—Description of Business and Basis of

29

Presentation to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “The Distribution” for additional information).

Basis of Presentation

Prior to the Distribution, the Company’s combined financial statements were prepared on a standalone basis, derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of 21CF. The Company’s Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and for the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 are presented on a combined basis as the Company was not a separate consolidated group prior to the Distribution. These Financial Statements reflect the combined historical results of operations, financial position and cash flows of 21CF’s domestic news, national sports and broadcast businesses and certain other assets and liabilities associated with such businesses. The Company became a separate consolidated group as a result of the Distribution, and the Company’s Financial Statements as of June 30, 2019 and for the year ended June 30, 2019 are presented on a consolidated basis.

The Consolidated and Combined Statements of Operations include allocations for certain support functions that were provided on a centralized basis within 21CF prior to the Distribution and not recorded at the business unit level, such as certain expenses related to finance, legal, insurance, information technology, compliance and human resources management activities, among others. 21CF did not routinely allocate these costs to any of its business units. These expenses have been allocated to FOX on the basis of direct usage when identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro rata basis of combined revenues, headcount or other relevant measures. Management believes the assumptions underlying the Financial Statements, including the assumptions regarding allocating general corporate expenses from 21CF, are reasonable. Nevertheless, the Financial Statements may not include all of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by FOX and may not reflect FOX’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows had it been a standalone company during the entirety of the periods presented. Actual costs that would have been incurred if FOX had been a standalone company would depend on multiple factors, including organizational structure and strategic decisions made in various areas, including information technology and infrastructure. The Company estimates that the total recurring costs beyond the amounts allocated to FOX in these Financial Statements through the Distribution, in accordance with SEC guidance, could range between $225 million and $250 million on an annual basis, which costs include the impact of the initial grant of restricted stock units and stock options under the Fox Corporation 2019 Shareholder Alignment Plan (See Note 11—Equity-Based Compensation to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX). This range is based on subjective estimates and assumptions and management expects the majority of any incremental costs to be included in the Other, Corporate and Eliminations segment. The Company expects its cash flows from operations, together with its access to capital markets, to be sufficient to fund these expenses.

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to help provide an understanding of the Company’s financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. This discussion is organized as follows:

 • Overview of the Company’s Business—This section provides a general description of the Company’s businesses, as well as developments that occurred either during the fiscal year ended June 30, (“fiscal”) 2019 or early fiscal 2020 that the Company believes are important in understanding its results of operations and financial condition or to disclose known trends.

 • Results of Operations—This section provides an analysis of the Company’s results of operations for fiscal 2019 and 2018. This analysis is presented on both a consolidated/combined and a segment basis. In addition, a brief description is provided of significant transactions and events that impact the comparability of the results being analyzed.

 • Liquidity and Capital Resources—This section provides an analysis of the Company’s cash flows for fiscal 2019 and 2018, as well as a discussion of the Company’s outstanding debt and commitments that existed as of June 30, 2019. Included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to fund the Company’s future commitments and obligations, as well as a discussion of other financing arrangements.

 • Critical Accounting Policies—This section discusses accounting policies considered important to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in application. In addition, Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX summarizes the Company’s significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policy discussion found in this section.

30

 • Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements—This section provides a description of the use of forward-looking information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such information is based on management’s current expectations about future events which are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties. Refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report for a discussion of the risk factors applicable to the Company.

OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS

The Company is a news, sports and entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in the following segments:

 • Cable Network Programming, which principally consists of the production and licensing of news and sports content distributed primarily through traditional cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunication companies (“traditional MVPDs”), and online multi-channel video programming distributors (“digital MVPDs”), primarily in the U.S.

 • Television, which principally consists of the acquisition, marketing and distribution of broadcast network programming nationally under the FOX brand and the operation of 28 full power broadcast television stations, including 11 duopolies, in the U.S. Of these stations, 17 are affiliated with the FOX Network, 10 are affiliated with MyNetworkTV and one is an independent station.

 • Other, Corporate and Eliminations, which principally consists of corporate overhead costs, intracompany eliminations and the FOX Studios lot. The FOX Studios lot, located in Los Angeles, California, provides television and film production services along with office space, studio operation services and includes all operations of the facility.

Cable Network Programming and Television

The Cable Network Programming and Television industries continue to evolve rapidly, with changes in technology leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume content. Content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view Internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. These changes in technologies and consumer behavior have contributed to declines in the number of subscribers to traditional MVPD services, and these declines are expected to continue and possibly accelerate in the future.

At the same time, expenditures by advertisers are affected by technologies that allow users to view programming from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming and advertisements. Furthermore, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending from more traditional media and toward digital and mobile offerings, which can deliver targeted advertising more promptly, or toward newer ways of purchasing advertising.

Given these changes in technology and consumption habits, the Company believes its strength in “appointment-based” content provides the Company with a strategic advantage. FOX differentiates itself from its competitors by focusing on audiences at meaningful scale watching premium content in real time and by attracting sales from advertising customers who want to reach larger audiences within specified time parameters. As the share of live news and sports consumption has increased across television viewing overall from approximately 23% of all live viewership in calendar 2014 to approximately 30% in calendar 2018, FOX has strategically built one of the most-followed news and sports platforms in the country. Real-time consumption of live news and sports programming has increased approximately 9% from 2014 to 2018. FOX’s franchises are leaders in these growing categories, generating strong demand from both advertisers and traditional and digital MVPDs. As viewers increasingly move toward ad-free or delayed viewing, we believe the scale of our live audiences and premium nature of the content we deliver across our channels increasingly differentiate us from our competitors. Audiences engage with FOX’s content in real-time and, as a result, our offerings have become more valuable to distributors and advertisers, leading to higher revenues for FOX. In addition, we have expanded the distribution of our premium content across digital MVPDs. Nearly all of our networks are offered in all major digital MVPD services and we are cultivating direct interactions between FOX brands and consumers outside of traditional linear television.

31

The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and its performance is dependent, to a large extent, on the impact of changes in consumer behavior as a result of new technologies, the sale of advertising on its cable and broadcast networks and television stations, maintenance, renewal and terms of its carriage, affiliation and content agreements and programming rights, the popularity of its content, general economic conditions (including financial market conditions), the Company’s ability to manage its businesses effectively, and its relative strength and leverage in the industry. For more information, see Item 1. “Business” and Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included herein.

The Company’s Cable Network Programming and Television segments derive a majority of their revenues from affiliate fees for the transmission of content and advertising sales. For fiscal 2019, the Company generated revenues of $11.4 billion, of which approximately 49% was generated from affiliate fees, 44% was generated from advertising, and 7% was generated from other operating activities.

Affiliate fees primarily include (i) monthly subscriber-based license and retransmission consent fees paid by programming distributors that carry our cable networks and our owned and operated television stations; and (ii) fees received from television stations that are affiliated with the FOX Network. U.S. law governing retransmission consent provides a mechanism for the television stations owned by the Company to seek and obtain payment from traditional MVPDs who carry the Company’s broadcast signals.

Affiliate fee revenues are net of the amortization of cable distribution investments (capitalized fees paid to U.S. MVPDs typically to facilitate the carriage of a domestic cable network). The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Traditional MVPDs are currently the predominant means of distribution of the Company’s program services, while digital MVPDs have become an increasingly significant share of overall distribution.

Revenues are impacted by rate changes, changes in the number of subscribers to the Company’s content, changes in the expenditures by advertisers, as well as the impact of state, congressional and presidential elections cycles and of special events impacting advertising revenues, such as the National Football League’s (“NFL”) Super Bowl, which is broadcast on the FOX Network on a rotating basis with other networks, Major League Baseball’s (“MLB”) World Series, and the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (“FIFA”) World Cup, which occurs every four years (for each of women and men), and other regular and post-season sporting events delivered to consumers on the Company’s broadcast television and cable networks.

The most significant operating expenses of the Cable Network Programming segment and the Television segment are acquisition and production expenses related to programming, marketing and promotional expenses, and expenses related to broadcasting the Company’s programming. Marketing and promotional expenses relate to improving the market visibility and awareness of the cable network or broadcaster and its programming. Additional expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead expenses.

The profitability of U.S. national sports contracts is based on the Company’s best estimates at June 30, 2019 of attributable revenues and costs; such estimates may change in the future and such changes may be significant. Should revenues decline materially from estimates applied at June 30, 2019, amortization of rights may be accelerated. Should revenues improve as compared to estimated revenues, the Company may have improved results related to the applicable contract, which may be recognized over the remaining contract term.

Other Business Developments

In August 2019, the Company announced the entry into a definitive merger agreement for the proposed acquisition of 67% of the equity in Credible Labs Inc. (“Credible”), a U.S. consumer finance marketplace, for Australian dollar 390 million (approximately $265 million) in cash (the “Credible Acquisition”). In addition, the Company has agreed to commit up to $75 million of capital to Credible over approximately two years following the closing of the Credible Acquisition. The Credible Acquisition is subject to the receipt of Credible shareholder and regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the closing conditions, the Credible Acquisition is expected to close by December 31, 2019.

In May 2019, the Company and The Stars Group Inc. (“The Stars Group”) announced plans to launch FOX Bet, a national media and sports wagering partnership in the U.S. FOX Sports and The Stars Group have entered into a long-term commercial arrangement through which FOX Sports will provide The Stars Group with an exclusive license to use certain FOX Sports trademarks. In addition, the Company invested $236 million to acquire a 4.99% equity interest in The Stars Group.

32

In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company invested, in the aggregate, approximately $100 million in cash for a minority equity interest in Caffeine, Inc. (“Caffeine”), a social broadcasting platform for gaming, entertainment and other creative content, and Caffeine Studio, LLC (“Caffeine Studios”), a newly formed venture that is jointly owned by the Company and Caffeine.

33

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Results of Operations—Fiscal 2019 versus Fiscal 2018

The following table sets forth the Company’s operating results for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018:

 For the years ended June 30,
--------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------ - ---- - ------ ------ - -------- - --- - -
 2019 2018 Change % Change
 (in millions, except %)
Revenues
Affiliate fee $ 5,512 $ 4,923 $ 589 12 %
Advertising 5,056 4,598 458 10 %
Other 821 632 189 30 %

Total revenues 11,389 10,153 1,236 12 %
Operating expenses (7,327 ) (6,505 ) (822 ) 13 %
Selling, general and administrative (1,419 ) (1,209 ) (210 ) 17 %
Depreciation and amortization (212 ) (171 ) (41 ) 24 %
Impairment and restructuring charges (26 ) (16 ) (10 ) 63 %
Interest expense (203 ) (43 ) (160 ) **
Interest income 41 - 41 **
Other, net (19 ) (39 ) 20 (51 ) %

Income before income tax (expense) benefit 2,224 2,170 54 2 %
Income tax (expense) benefit (581 ) 58 (639 ) **
 -
Net income 1,643 2,228 (585 ) (26 ) %
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (48 ) (41 ) (7 ) 17 %

Net income attributable to Fox Corporation stockholders $ 1,595 $ 2,187 $ (592 ) (27 ) %

** not meaningful

Overview—The Company’s revenues increased 12% for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, due to higher affiliate fee, advertising and other revenues. The increase in affiliate fee revenue was primarily attributable to higher average rates per subscriber across all networks, led by contractual rate increases on existing affiliate agreements and from affiliate agreement renewals. The increase in advertising revenue was primarily due to the broadcast of FOX’s inaugural season of NFL Thursday Night Football (“TNF”) and an additional NFL postseason game on the FOX Network, higher cyclical political advertising revenue due to the U.S. midterm elections at the FOX Television Stations and higher digital advertising revenue at FOX News. The increase in other revenues was primarily due to higher digital content licensing revenue at the FOX Network.

Operating expenses increased 13% for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher sports programming rights amortization and production costs, including the additional NFL games, and the recognition of a write-down of approximately $55 million related to entertainment and syndicated programming rights (See Note 5—Inventories, net to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX).

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 17% primarily due to higher costs in fiscal 2019 related to operating as a standalone public company following the Distribution as compared to allocated costs in fiscal 2018. Also contributing to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses were higher allocated costs of approximately $50 million for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, principally due to an increase in revenues which was the primary measure to allocate on a pro rata basis certain general corporate expenses from 21CF. In addition, fiscal 2019 includes equity-based compensation costs of approximately $15 million related to the initial grant of restricted stock units and stock options under the Fox Corporation 2019 Shareholder Alignment Plan (See Note 11—Equity-Based Compensation to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX).

Depreciation and amortization—Depreciation and amortization expense increased 24% primarily due to higher costs in fiscal 2019 related to operating as a standalone public company following the Distribution as compared to a full year of allocated costs in fiscal 2018.

34

Interest expense—Interest expense increased $160 million for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, primarily due to the issuance of $6.8 billion of senior notes in January 2019 and the effect of the bridge credit agreement commitment letter which was entered into in December 2017, including the write-off of unamortized costs as a result of the termination of the bridge credit agreement in March 2019 (See Note 9—Borrowings to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX for additional information).

Interest income—Interest income increased $41 million for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, primarily due to a higher average cash balance and higher average interest rates.

Other, net—See Note 20—Additional Financial Information to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “Other, net.”

Income tax (expense) benefit—The Company’s tax provision and related effective tax rate of 26% for fiscal 2019 was higher than the statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the impact of state taxes.

The Company’s tax provision and related effective tax rate of (3)% for fiscal 2018 was lower than the statutory rate of 28% primarily due to a provisional $607 million tax benefit which reflects the effects of the legislation in the U.S. passed on December 22, 2017, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) (See Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “U.S. Tax Reform”).

Net income—Net income decreased 26% for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, primarily due to the absence of an income tax benefit resulting from the Tax Act in the prior year.

Segment Analysis

The Company’s operating segments have been determined in accordance with the Company’s internal management structure, which is organized based on operating activities. The Company evaluates performance based upon several factors, of which the primary financial measure is segment operating income before depreciation and amortization, or Segment EBITDA. Due to the integrated nature of these operating segments, estimates and judgments are made in allocating certain assets, revenues and expenses.

Beginning with the announcement of the Company’s financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company has renamed as “Segment EBITDA” the measure that it previously referred to as “Segment OIBDA”. The definition of this measure has not changed: Segment EBITDA is defined as Revenues less Operating expenses and Selling, general and administrative expenses. Segment EBITDA does not include: Amortization of cable distribution investments, Depreciation and amortization, Impairment and restructuring charges, Interest expense, Interest income, Other, net and Income tax (expense) benefit. Management believes that Segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company’s business segments because it is the primary measure used by the Company’s chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of and allocate resources to the Company’s businesses.

Management believes that information about Total Segment EBITDA assists all users of the Company’s Financial Statements by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company’s portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results. Total Segment EBITDA provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze the operating performance of the Company’s business and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors’ data, although historical results, including Segment EBITDA and Total Segment EBITDA, may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences).

Total Segment EBITDA may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In addition, this measure does not reflect cash available to fund requirements and excludes items, such as depreciation and amortization and impairment charges, which are significant components in assessing the Company’s financial performance. Total Segment EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

35

Fiscal 2019 versus Fiscal 2018

The following table reconciles Income before income tax (expense) benefit to Total Segment EBITDA for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018:

 For the years ended June 30,
---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- - ---- - ----- ------ - -------- - --- - -
 2019 2018 Change % Change
 (in millions, except %)
Income before income tax (expense) benefit $ 2,224 $ 2,170 $ 54 2 %
Add
Amortization of cable distribution investments 38 53 (15 ) (28 ) %
Depreciation and amortization 212 171 41 24 %
Impairment and restructuring charges 26 16 10 63 %
Interest expense 203 43 160 **
Interest income (41 ) - (41 ) **
Other, net 19 39 (20 ) (51 ) %

Total Segment EBITDA $ 2,681 $ 2,492 $ 189 8 %

** not meaningful

The following table sets forth the computation of Total Segment EBITDA for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018:

 For the years ended June 30,
---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------ - ---- - ------ ------ - -------- - --- - -
 2019 2018 Change % Change
 (in millions, except %)
Revenues $ 11,389 $ 10,153 $ 1,236 12 %
Operating expenses (7,327 ) (6,505 ) (822 ) 13 %
Selling, general and administrative (1,419 ) (1,209 ) (210 ) 17 %
Amortization of cable distribution investments 38 53 (15 ) (28 ) %

Total Segment EBITDA $ 2,681 $ 2,492 $ 189 8 %

The following tables set forth the Company’s Revenues and Segment EBITDA for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018:

 For the years ended June 30,
--------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------ ---- - ------ ------ - -------- -- -
 2019 2018 Change % Change
 (in millions, except %)
Revenues
Cable Network Programming $ 5,381 $ 5,049 $ 332 7 %
Television 5,979 5,106 873 17 %
Other, Corporate and Eliminations 29 (2 ) 31 **

Total revenues $ 11,389 $ 10,153 $ 1,236 12 %

** not meaningful

 For the years ended June 30,
--------------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- - ---- - ----- ------ - -------- - --- - -
 2019 2018 Change % Change
 (in millions, except %)
Segment EBITDA
Cable Network Programming $ 2,495 $ 2,308 $ 187 8 %
Television 470 379 91 24 %
Other, Corporate and Eliminations (284 ) (195 ) (89 ) (46 ) %

Total Segment EBITDA $ 2,681 $ 2,492 $ 189 8 %

36

Cable Network Programming (47% and 50% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively)

 For the years ended June 30,
---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------ - ---- - ------ ------ - -------- - --- - -
 2019 2018 Change % Change
 (in millions, except %)
Revenues
Affiliate fee $ 3,804 $ 3,541 $ 263 7 %
Advertising 1,184 1,120 64 6 %
Other 393 388 5 1 %

Total revenues 5,381 5,049 332 7 %
Operating expenses (2,477 ) (2,394 ) (83 ) 3 %
Selling, general and administrative (447 ) (400 ) (47 ) 12 %
Amortization of cable distribution investments 38 53 (15 ) (28 ) %

Segment EBITDA $ 2,495 $ 2,308 $ 187 8 %

Revenues at the Cable Network Programming segment increased for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher affiliate fee and advertising revenues. The increase in affiliate fee revenue was primarily attributable to higher average rates per subscriber across all networks, led by contractual rate increases on existing affiliate agreements and from affiliate agreement renewals, partially offset by the impact of a lower average number of subscribers across almost all networks. The decrease in the average number of subscribers was due to a reduction in subscribers to traditional MVPDs, partially offset by an increase in digital MVPD subscribers. The increase in advertising revenue was primarily due to higher digital advertising revenue at FOX News and higher ratings for the daily studio programming at FS1, partially offset by the broadcast of two fewer 2018 MLB postseason games at FS1 and the absence of Ultimate Fighting Championship (“UFC”) in the second half of fiscal 2019.

Cable Network Programming Segment EBITDA increased for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased principally due to higher sports programming rights amortization and production costs, including the impact of higher amortization for college sports, National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing (“NASCAR”) and the FIFA World Cup events and the addition of Premier Boxing Champions at FS1, partially offset by the absence of UFC in the second half of fiscal 2019 and the UEFA Champions League. Also contributing to the increase in operating expenses were launch costs incurred in connection with the Company’s direct-to-consumer initiative at FOX News. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to higher costs in fiscal 2019 related to operating as a standalone public company following the Distribution as compared to a full year of allocated costs in fiscal 2018.

Television (52% and 50% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively)

 For the years ended June 30,
----------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------ - ---- - ------ ------ - -------- - -- -
 2019 2018 Change % Change
 (in millions, except %)
Revenues
Advertising $ 3,872 $ 3,478 $ 394 11 %
Affiliate fee 1,708 1,382 326 24 %
Other 399 246 153 62 %

Total revenues 5,979 5,106 873 17 %
Operating expenses (4,847 ) (4,113 ) (734 ) 18 %
Selling, general and administrative (662 ) (614 ) (48 ) 8 %

Segment EBITDA $ 470 $ 379 $ 91 24 %

Revenues at the Television segment increased for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, due to higher advertising, affiliate fee and other revenues. The increase in advertising revenue was primarily due to the broadcast of FOX’s inaugural season of TNF and an additional NFL postseason game on the FOX Network and higher cyclical political advertising revenue due to the U.S. midterm elections at the FOX Television Stations. Also contributing to the increase in advertising revenue was higher pricing for entertainment programming at the FOX Network and the broadcast of the FIFA World Cup events, partially offset by two fewer broadcasts of the 2018 MLB World Series games and lower ratings for entertainment programming on the FOX Network. The increase in affiliate fee revenue was primarily due to higher fees

37

received from television stations that are affiliated with the FOX Network. The increase in other revenues was primarily due to higher digital content licensing revenue at the FOX Network.

Television Segment EBITDA increased for fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by higher expenses. Operating expenses increased primarily due to higher sports programming rights amortization and production costs, including the additional NFL games as well as higher amortization for the FIFA World Cup events, and the recognition of a write-down of approximately $55 million related to entertainment and syndicated programming rights (See Note 5—Inventories, net to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX). Partially offsetting these increases in operating expenses were lower entertainment programming rights amortization and marketing costs as a result of fewer hours of original programming in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to higher costs in fiscal 2019 related to operating as a standalone public company following the Distribution as compared to a full year of allocated costs in fiscal 2018.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Current Financial Condition

Prior to December 31, 2017, substantially all of the cash balances were swept to 21CF on a daily basis and the Company received capital from 21CF for the Company’s cash needs. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company ceased participating in 21CF’s capital and cash management accounts. 21CF continued to provide treasury services to the Company until the Distribution.

The Company’s principal source of liquidity is internally generated funds which are highly dependent upon the continuation of affiliate agreements and the state of the advertising markets. The Company has an unused five-year $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (See Note 9—Borrowings to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX) and has access to the worldwide capital markets, subject to market conditions. As of June 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants under the revolving credit facility, and it does not anticipate any noncompliance with such covenants.

The principal uses of cash that affect the Company’s liquidity position include the following: the acquisition of rights and related payments for entertainment and sports programming; operational expenditures including marketing and promotional expenses; expenses related to broadcasting the Company’s programming along with investing approximately $150 million to $200 million in establishing standalone technical facilities over the two years following the Distribution; employee and facility costs; capital expenditures; acquisitions; interest and dividend payments; and debt repayments.

In addition to the acquisitions, sales and possible acquisitions disclosed elsewhere, the Company has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, possible acquisitions and dispositions of certain businesses and assets. Such transactions may be material and may involve cash, the Company’s securities or the assumption of additional indebtedness.

Sources and Uses of Cash—Fiscal 2019 vs. Fiscal 2018

Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions):

For the years ended June 30, 2019 2018
----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- - -----
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,524 $ 1,317

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, is primarily due to lower cash payments for entertainment programming and higher sports programming rights amortization over cash payments at the Television segment and higher operating results.

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities for fiscal 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions):

For the years ended June 30, 2019 2018
--------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- - ---
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (637 ) $ 128

The change in net cash (used in) provided by investing activities during fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, was primarily due to the investments in The Stars Group, Caffeine and Caffeine Studios and the absence of cash received from the Federal Communications Commission’s (“FCC”) completed reverse auction for broadcast spectrum (See Note 3—Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX).

38

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities for fiscal 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions):

For the years ended June 30, 2019 2018
--------------------------------------------------- ---- ------ - ---- - -----
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (1,153 ) $ 1,036

The change in net cash (used in) provided by financing activities during fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, was primarily due to Net transfers to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. of $1,233 million in fiscal 2019, as compared to Net transfers from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. of $1,113 million in fiscal 2018. Also contributing to the change in net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was the Dividend of $8.5 billion paid to 21CF net of the $2 billion cash payment received from Disney and the semi-annual cash dividend paid to the Company’s stockholders in June 2019, partially offset by the proceeds from the issuance of $6.8 billion of senior notes in January 2019 (See Note 9—Borrowings to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX for additional information). The nature of activities included in Net transfers (to) from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. includes financing activities, capital transfers, cash sweeps, other treasury services and corporate expenses. Prior to December 31, 2017, the majority of the cash balances were swept to 21CF on a daily basis and the Company received capital from 21CF for the Company’s cash needs. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company ceased participating in 21CF’s capital and cash management accounts.

Dividends

In May 2019, the Company declared a semi-annual dividend of $0.23 per share on both the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, which was paid on June 3, 2019 to the stockholders of record on May 20, 2019. Subsequent to June 30, 2019, the Company declared a semi-annual dividend of $0.23 per share on both the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock, resulting in an expected prospective annual dividend of $0.46 per share. The dividend declared subsequent to June 30, 2019 is payable on October 2, 2019 with a record date for determining dividend entitlements of September 4, 2019.

Based on the number of shares outstanding as of June 30, 2019 and the prospective annual dividend rate stated above, the total aggregate cash dividends expected to be paid to stockholders in fiscal 2020 is approximately $285 million.

Debt Instruments

In January 2019, the Company issued approximately $6.8 billion of senior notes (See Note 9—Borrowings to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX).

Ratings of the senior notes

The following table summarizes the Company’s credit ratings as of June 30, 2019:

Rating Agency Senior Debt Outlook
----------------- ----------- -------
Moody's Baa2 Stable
Standard & Poor's BBB Stable

Revolving Credit Agreement

In March 2019, the Company entered into an unsecured $1.0 billion revolving credit facility with a maturity date of March 2024 (See Note 9—Borrowings to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX).

Bridge Credit Agreement

In March 2019, the Company entered into an unsecured $1.7 billion 364-Day Bridge Term Loan Agreement, which was also terminated in the same month (See Note 9—Borrowings to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX).

39

Commitments

The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements (“firm commitments”), to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. The following table summarizes the Company’s material firm commitments as of June 30, 2019:

 As of June 30, 2019
--------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------ ------ - ----- ----------- - ----------- ------------- ----- - ------
 Payments due by period
 Total 1 year 2 - 3 years 4 - 5 years After 5 years
 (in millions)
Operating leases
Land and buildings $ 725 $ 139 $ 260 $ 147 $ 179
Other 79 19 37 12 11
Other commitments
Borrowings 6,800 - 750 1,250 4,800
Sports programming rights 31,444 3,975 13,246 4,363 9,860
Entertainment programming rights 820 555 223 42 -
Other commitments and contractual obligations 710 204 287 106 113

Total commitments, borrowings and contractual obligations $ 40,578 $ 4,892 $ 14,803 $ 5,920 $ 14,963

For additional details on commitments see Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the headings “Operating leases,” “Sports programming rights” and “Other commitments and contractual obligations.”

Pension and other postretirement benefits and uncertain tax benefits

The table excludes the Company’s pension, other postretirement benefits (“OPEB”) obligations and the gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount and timing. The Company made contributions of $83 million and $30 million to its direct pension plans in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The majority of these contributions were voluntarily made to improve the funded status of the plans. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns, interest rates and statutory requirements. Assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with the Company’s expected plan returns in fiscal 2020 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company would not be required to make any material contributions to its pension plans for the immediate future. Required pension plan contributions for the next fiscal year are not expected to be material but the Company may make voluntary contributions in future periods. Payments due to participants under the Company’s pension plans are primarily paid out of underlying trusts. Payments due under the Company’s OPEB plans are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree medical benefits under the Company’s pension plans. The Company does not expect its net OPEB payments to be material in fiscal 2020 (See Note 14—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX for further discussion of the Company’s pension and OPEB plans).

Contingencies

See Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “Contingencies.”

40

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it is important to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management of the Company and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors. For the Company’s summary of significant accounting policies, see Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX.

Use of Estimates

See Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “Use of Estimates.”

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to the Company’s customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The Company considers the terms of each arrangement to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.

Cable Network Programming and Television

The Company generates advertising revenue from sales of commercial time within the Company’s network programming to be aired by television networks and cable channels, and from sales of broadcast advertising time on the Company’s owned and operated television stations and various digital properties. Advertising revenue from customers, primarily advertising agencies, is recognized as the commercials are aired. Certain of the Company’s advertising contracts have guarantees of a certain number of targeted audience views, referred to as impressions. Revenues for any audience deficiencies are deferred until the guaranteed number of impressions is met, by providing additional advertisements. Advertising contracts, which are generally short-term, are billed monthly for the spots aired during the month, with payments due shortly after the invoice date.

The Company generates affiliate fee revenue from affiliate agreements with traditional and digital MVPDs for cable network programming and for the broadcast of the Company’s owned and operated television stations. In addition, the Company generates affiliate fee revenue from affiliate agreements with independently owned television stations that are affiliated with the FOX Network and receive retransmission consent fees from traditional and digital MVPDs for their signals. Affiliate fee revenue is recognized at a point in time when the network programming, a functional license of intellectual property, is made available to the customer which is done on a continuous basis. For contracts with affiliate fees based on the number of the affiliate’s subscribers, revenues are recognized based on the contractual rate multiplied by the estimated number of subscribers each period. For contracts with fixed affiliate fees, revenues are recognized based on the relative standalone selling price of the network programming provided over the contract term, which generally reflects the invoiced amount. Affiliate contracts are generally multi-year contracts with payments due monthly.

The Company classifies the amortization of cable distribution investments (capitalized fees paid to MVPDs to facilitate carriage of a cable network) against affiliate fee revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606-10-32-25 through 27, “Revenue Recognition—Consideration Payable to a Customer.” The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period.

Programming

Costs incurred in acquiring program rights or producing programs are accounted for in accordance with ASC 920, “Entertainment—Broadcasters.” Program rights and the related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable and the program is accepted and available for airing. Television broadcast network entertainment programming, which includes acquired series, co-produced series, movies and other programs, are amortized primarily on an accelerated basis. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its total revenue estimates on a contract basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write-down of the asset to fair value.

As a result of the evaluation of the recoverability of the unamortized costs associated with the Company’s programming rights, the Company recognized a write-down of approximately $55 million related to entertainment and

41

syndicated programming rights at the Television segment, which was recorded in Operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for fiscal 2019.

The Company has single and multi-year contracts for broadcast rights of programs and sporting events. The costs of multi-year national sports contracts at the FOX Network and the Company’s sports channels are primarily charged to expense and allocated to segments based on the ratio of each current period’s attributable revenue for each contract to the estimated total remaining attributable revenue for each contract. Estimates can change and accordingly, are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted as necessary. Such changes in the future could be material. The recoverability of certain sports rights contracts for content broadcast on the FOX Network and the Company’s sports channels is assessed on an aggregate basis.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The Company’s intangible assets include goodwill, FCC licenses, MVPD affiliate agreements and relationships and trademarks and other copyrighted products. Intangible assets acquired in business combinations are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recorded as the difference between the consideration transferred to acquire entities and the estimated fair values assigned to their tangible and identifiable intangible net assets and is assigned to one or more reporting units for purposes of testing for impairment. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of intangible assets acquired, their reporting unit, as well as their useful lives can significantly impact net income.

The Company accounts for its business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible net assets acquired is recorded as intangibles, including goodwill. Amounts recorded as goodwill are assigned to one or more reporting units. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples, among other items. Identifying reporting units and assigning goodwill to them requires judgment involving the aggregation of business units with similar economic characteristics and the identification of existing business units that benefit from the acquired goodwill. The Company allocates goodwill to disposed businesses using the relative fair value method.

Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment in accordance with ASC 350 “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other.” The Company’s impairment review is based on, among other methods, a discounted cash flow approach that requires significant management judgment. The Company uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual valuations. Indicators such as unexpected adverse economic factors, unanticipated technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired and require the Company to perform an interim impairment test.

The Company uses direct valuation methods to value identifiable intangibles for acquisition accounting and impairment testing. The direct valuation method used for FCC licenses requires, among other inputs, the use of published industry data that are based on subjective judgments about future advertising revenues in the markets where the Company owns television stations. This method also involves the use of management’s judgment in estimating an appropriate discount rate reflecting the risk of a market participant in the U.S. broadcast industry. The resulting fair values for FCC licenses are sensitive to these long-term assumptions and any variations to such assumptions could result in an impairment to existing carrying values in future periods and such impairment could be material.

During fiscal 2019, the Company determined that the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of FOX as of June 30, 2019 were not impaired. The Company determined there are no reporting units with goodwill considered to be at risk and will continue to monitor its goodwill and intangible assets for possible future impairment.

See Note 8—Goodwill and Intangible Assets, net to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “Annual Impairment Review” for further discussion.

42

Income Taxes

The Company is subject to income tax in various domestic jurisdictions. The Company computes its annual tax rate based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to it in the various jurisdictions in which it earns income. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s tax expense and in evaluating its tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties under ASC 740, “Income Taxes.”

The Company records valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies. Should a change in circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years, the Company would adjust related valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or charge to income.

For information regarding the impact of the Tax Act, see Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “U.S. Tax Reform.”

Employee Costs

The measurement and recognition of costs of the Company’s pension and OPEB plans require the use of significant management judgments, including discount rates, expected return on plan assets and other actuarial assumptions.

The Company participates in and/or sponsors various pension, savings and postretirement benefit plans. Pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are closed to new participants with the exception of a small group covered by collective bargaining agreements. Prior to the Separation and the Distribution, certain of the Company’s employees participated in defined benefit pension and postretirement plans sponsored by 21CF (“Shared Plans”), which include participants of other 21CF subsidiaries. Shared Plans were accounted for as multiemployer benefit plans. Therefore, no asset or liability were recorded to recognize the funded status. In contemplation of the Separation and the Distribution, the pension and other postretirement benefit assets and liabilities of the Shared Plans allocable to the Company’s employees were transferred to the Company in fiscal 2019 (See Note 14—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX).

For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension expense is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets and mortality. The Company considers current market conditions, including changes in investment returns and interest rates, in making these assumptions. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, the Company considered the pension portfolio’s future return expectations of the various asset classes. The expected long-term rate of return is based on an asset allocation assumption of 50% equity securities, 25% fixed income securities and 25% in other investments.

The discount rate reflects the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments on the Company’s annual measurement date of June 30 and is subject to change each fiscal year. The discount rate assumptions used to account for pension and other postretirement benefit plans reflect the rates at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. The rate was determined by matching the Company’s expected benefit payments for the plans to a hypothetical yield curve developed using a portfolio of several hundred high-quality non-callable corporate bonds.

The key assumptions used in developing the Company’s fiscal 2019 net periodic pension expense for its plans consist of the following:

 2019
------------------------------- ----------------------- --- -
 (in millions, except %)
Discount rate for service cost 4.6 %
Discount rate for interest cost 4.1 %

Assets

Expected rate of return 7.0 %
Actual return $ 50
Expected return 30

Actuarial gain $ 20

43

Discount rates are volatile from year to year because they are determined based upon the prevailing rates as of the measurement date. The Company will utilize discount rates of 3.7% and 3.2% in calculating the fiscal 2020 service cost and interest cost, respectively, for its plans. The Company will use a long-term rate of return of 7.0% for fiscal 2020 based principally on future return expectation of the plans’ asset mix. The accumulated net pre-tax losses on the Company’s pension plans as of June 30, 2019 were $385 million which increased from $80 million as of June 30, 2018. This increase of $305 million was primarily due to the transfer of pension benefit plan assets and liabilities allocable to the Company’s employees from 21CF and the change in the discount rate assumption utilized in measuring plan obligations. Lower discount rates increase present values of benefit obligations and increase the Company’s deferred losses and also increase subsequent-year pension expense. Higher discount rates decrease the present values of benefit obligations and reduce the Company’s accumulated net loss and also decrease subsequent-year pension expense. These deferred losses are being systematically recognized in future net periodic pension expense in accordance with ASC 715, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits.” Unrecognized losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plans’ projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) are recognized over the average future service of the plan participants or average future life of the plan participants.

The Company made contributions of $83 million, $30 million and $29 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The majority of these contributions were voluntarily made to improve the funding status of the plans which were impacted by the economic conditions noted above. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns, statutory requirements and interest rate movements. Assuming that actual plan returns are consistent with the Company’s expected plan returns in fiscal 2020 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company would not be required to make any material statutory contributions to its pension plans for the immediate future. The Company will continue to make voluntary contributions as necessary to improve funded status.

Changes in net periodic pension expense may occur in the future due to changes in the Company’s expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events. The following table highlights the sensitivity of the Company’s pension obligations and expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant:

Changes in Assumption Impact on Annual Pension Expense Impact on PBO
------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------
0.25 percentage point decrease in discount rate Increase $3 million Increase $39 million
0.25 percentage point increase in discount rate Decrease $3 million Decrease $37 million
0.25 percentage point decrease in expected rate of return on assets Increase $2 million -
0.25 percentage point increase in expected rate of return on assets Decrease $2 million -

Fiscal 2020 net periodic pension expense for the Company’s pension plans is expected to be approximately $50 million, which is consistent with fiscal 2019.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying Financial Statements of FOX under the heading “Recently Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Guidance and U.S. Tax Reform.”

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical or current fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including any statements regarding (i) future earnings, revenues or other measures of the Company’s financial performance; (ii) the Company’s plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; (iii) proposed new programming or other offerings; (iv) future economic conditions or performance; (v) estimated annual recurring costs relating to FOX operating as a standalone, publicly traded company; and (vi) assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “outlook” or any other similar words.

Although the Company’s management believes that the expectations reflected in any of the Company’s forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-

44

looking statements. The Company’s future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed or incorporated by reference in our filings with the SEC. Important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those estimates or projections contained in the Company’s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, government regulation, economic, strategic, political and social conditions and the following factors:

 • recent and future changes in technology, including alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content, and in consumer behavior, including changes in when, where and how they consume content;

 • changes in the Company’s strategies and initiatives and the acceptance thereof by consumers, distributors of the Company’s content, affiliates, advertisers and other parties with which the Company does business;

 • the highly competitive nature of the industry in which the Company’s businesses operate;

 • declines in advertising expenditures due to various factors such as the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general, technological developments and changes in consumer behavior, and shifts in advertisers’ spending toward digital and mobile offerings and away from more traditional media;

 • the loss of affiliation or carriage agreements or arrangements where the Company makes its content available for viewing through online video platforms;

 • the popularity of the Company’s content, including special sports events, and the continued popularity of the sports franchises, leagues and teams for which the Company has acquired programming rights;

 • the Company’s ability to renew programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, on sufficiently favorable terms;

 • damage to the Company’s brands or reputation;

 • the inability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Company’s strategic investments and acquisitions;

 • a degradation, failure or misuse of the Company’s network and information systems and other technology relied on by the Company that causes a disruption of services or improper disclosure of personal data or other confidential information;

 • content piracy and signal theft and the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights;

 • the loss of key personnel;

 • the effect of labor disputes, including labor disputes involving professional sports leagues whose games or events the Company has the right to broadcast;

 • changes in tax, federal communications or other laws, regulations, practices or the interpretations thereof;

 • the impact of any investigations or fines from governmental authorities, including FCC rules and policies and FCC decisions regarding revocation, renewal or grant of station licenses;

 • the failure or destruction of satellites or transmitter facilities the Company depends on to distribute its programming;

 • lower than expected valuations associated with one of the Company’s reporting units, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets;

 • changes in GAAP or other applicable accounting standards and policies;

 • the Company’s very limited operating history as a standalone, publicly traded company and the risk that the Company is unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate effectively as a standalone, publicly traded company;

 • increased costs in connection with the Company operating as a standalone, publicly traded company following the Distribution and the loss of synergies the Company enjoyed from operating as part of 21CF;

 • the Company’s reliance on 21CF to provide the Company various services during a transition period under the transition services agreement including broadcast operations, sports production, information and technology, and other services, and the risks that 21CF does not properly provide the services under this agreement or that the Company is unable to provide or obtain such services following the transition period (or during the transition period, if 21CF does not properly provide them in a timely and cost effective manner);

45

 • the Company’s ability to secure additional capital on acceptable terms;

 • the impact of any payments the Company is required to make or liabilities it is required to assume under the Separation Agreement and the indemnification arrangements entered into in connection with the Separation and the Distribution; and

 • the other risks and uncertainties detailed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date hereof, and forward-looking statements in documents that are incorporated by reference hereto speak only as of the date of those documents. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement made herein or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in our expectations, except as required by law.

46

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 1]:
(1) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of NES and Neff in April 2017 and October 2017, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of NES and Neff. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 does not include BakerCorp and BlueLine because we had not acquired them as of December 31, 2017. If the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine were included for the year ended December 31, 2017, estimated market share as of December 31, 2017 would have been 12.9 percent. Strategy 2  For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2019, we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single point of contact; - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Marketable Securities 87

[See Note 5]:
(5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision (benefit) for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins represent EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distor...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Marketable Securities 87

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, and colocations with original lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2093. We are committed to pay a portion of the related actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. Certain of these arrangements have free rent periods or escalating rent payment provisions, and we recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis. The following is a schedule, by years, of the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): ---------------------------- ---------------- ------ Operating Leases 2019 $ 698 2020 946 2021 1,055 2022 1,048 2023 1,054 Thereafter 9,850 Total minimum lease payments $ 14,651 Operating lease expense was $629 million, $363 million, and $269 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We fully repaid all our capital lease obligations during 2016. Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $6.17 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2018, primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Contingencies Lega...

[See Note 20]:
Note 20. Stockholders' Equity and Noncontrolling Interests 87

[See Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20  ------- -----------------------

[See Note 5]:
(5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision (benefit) for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins represent EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distor...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, and colocations with original lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2093. We are committed to pay a portion of the related actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. Certain of these arrangements have free rent periods or escalating rent payment provisions, and we recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis. The following is a schedule, by years, of the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): ---------------------------- ---------------- ------ Operating Leases 2019 $ 698 2020 946 2021 1,055 2022 1,048 2023 1,054 Thereafter 9,850 Total minimum lease payments $ 14,651 Operating lease expense was $629 million, $363 million, and $269 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We fully repaid all our capital lease obligations during 2016. Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $6.17 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2018, primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Contingencies Lega...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff, BakerCorp and BlueLine acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision (benefit) for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EB...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, and colocations with original lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2093. We are committed to pay a portion of the related actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. Certain of these arrangements have free rent periods or escalating rent payment provisions, and we recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis. The following is a schedule, by years, of the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): ---------------------------- ---------------- ------ Operating Leases 2019 $ 698 2020 946 2021 1,055 2022 1,048 2023 1,054 Thereafter 9,850 Total minimum lease payments $ 14,651 Operating lease expense was $629 million, $363 million, and $269 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We fully repaid all our capital lease obligations during 2016. Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $6.17 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2018, primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Contingencies Lega...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, and colocations with original lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2093. We are committed to pay a portion of the related actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. Certain of these arrangements have free rent periods or escalating rent payment provisions, and we recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis. The following is a schedule, by years, of the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): ---------------------------- ---------------- ------ Operating Leases 2019 $ 698 2020 946 2021 1,055 2022 1,048 2023 1,054 Thereafter 9,850 Total minimum lease payments $ 14,651 Operating lease expense was $629 million, $363 million, and $269 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We fully repaid all our capital lease obligations during 2016. Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $6.17 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2018, primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Contingencies Lega...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, and colocations with original lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2093. We are committed to pay a portion of the related actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. Certain of these arrangements have free rent periods or escalating rent payment provisions, and we recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis. The following is a schedule, by years, of the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): ---------------------------- ---------------- ------ Operating Leases 2019 $ 698 2020 946 2021 1,055 2022 1,048 2023 1,054 Thereafter 9,850 Total minimum lease payments $ 14,651 Operating lease expense was $629 million, $363 million, and $269 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We fully repaid all our capital lease obligations during 2016. Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $6.17 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2018, primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Contingencies Lega...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, and colocations with original lease periods expiring between 2019 and 2093. We are committed to pay a portion of the related actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. Certain of these arrangements have free rent periods or escalating rent payment provisions, and we recognize rent expense under such arrangements on a straight-line basis. The following is a schedule, by years, of the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2018 (in millions): ---------------------------- ---------------- ------ Operating Leases 2019 $ 698 2020 946 2021 1,055 2022 1,048 2023 1,054 Thereafter 9,850 Total minimum lease payments $ 14,651 Operating lease expense was $629 million, $363 million, and $269 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We fully repaid all our capital lease obligations during 2016. Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $6.17 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2018, primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Contingencies Lega...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13. Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, and $15.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $12.1 billion, $16.5 billion, and $19.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): -------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- - - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current: Federal and state $ 3,826 $ 12,608 $ 2,153 Foreign 966 1,746 1,251 Total 4,792 14,354 3,404 Deferred: Federal and state (70 ) 220 907 Foreign (50 ) (43 ) (134 ) Total (120 ) 177 773 Provision for income taxes $ 4,672 $ 14,531 $ 4,177 The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments. 77 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of the year, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act has been completed as of December 31, 2018. One-time transition tax The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash ...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Other Bets - Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 80 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13. Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, and $15.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $12.1 billion, $16.5 billion, and $19.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): -------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- - - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current: Federal and state $ 3,826 $ 12,608 $ 2,153 Foreign 966 1,746 1,251 Total 4,792 14,354 3,404 Deferred: Federal and state (70 ) 220 907 Foreign (50 ) (43 ) (134 ) Total (120 ) 177 773 Provision for income taxes $ 4,672 $ 14,531 $ 4,177 The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments. 77 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of the year, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act has been completed as of December 31, 2018. One-time transition tax The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash ...

[see Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20  ------- -----------------------

[See Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20  ------- -----------------------

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Securitization Activities Jefferies Group engages in securitization activities related to corporate loans, commercial mortgage loans, consumer loans and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. In securitization transactions, Jefferies Group transfers assets to special purpose entities ("SPEs") and acts as the placement or structuring agent for the beneficial interests sold to investors by the SPE. A significant portion of the securitization transactions are the securitization of assets issued or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. These SPEs generally meet the criteria of VIEs; however, the SPEs are generally not consolidated as Jefferies Group is not considered the primary beneficiary for these SPEs. F-47 Jefferies Group accounts for securitization transactions as sales, provided it has relinquished control over the transferred assets. Transferred assets are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in Principal transactions revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations prior to the identification and isolation for securitization. Subsequently, revenues recognized upon securitization are reflected as net underwriting revenues. Jefferies Group generally receives cash proceeds in connection with the transfer of assets to an SPE. Jefferies Group may, however, have continuing involvement with the transferred assets, which is limited to retaining one or more tranches of the securitization (primarily senior and subordinated debt securities in the form of mortgage- and other asset-backed securities or CLOs), which are included in Trading assets and are generally initially categorized as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Jefferies Group applies fair value accounting to the securities. The following table presents activity related to Jefferies Group's securitizations that were accounted for as sales in which it had continuing involvement (in millions): ----------------------------------------- --------------------...

[see Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20  ------- -----------------------

[See Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Other Bets - Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 80 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc...

[See Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20  ------- -----------------------

[Exhibit 99.1 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 99.1]

[Refer to Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 8
