================================================================================
CIK: 0000701985
Company Name: Bath & Body Works, Inc
Filing Date: 2022-03-18
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 07:39:38
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not our only risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently deemed to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition in a material way.
Risks related to our business:
Our net sales, profit results and cash flows are sensitive to, have been affected by and may in the future be further impacted by, general economic conditions, inflation, consumer confidence, spending patterns, significant health hazards or pandemics, weather or other market disruptions.
Our net sales, profit, cash flows and future growth may be affected by negative local, regional, national or international political or economic trends or developments that reduce consumers’ ability or willingness to spend. These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political, financial or social instability or conditions, geopolitical events, corruption, anti-American sentiment, social and ethnic unrest, military conflicts and terrorism, as well as changes in general economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation). In addition, market disruptions due to natural disasters, significant health hazards or pandemics, or other major events or the prospect of these events could also impact consumer spending and confidence levels. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located, particularly in markets where we have multiple stores, could adversely affect our business. Purchases of our products may decline during periods when economic or market conditions are unsettled or weak. In such circumstances, we may increase the number of promotional sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
The COVID-19 pandemic continued to impact our business and results of operations in fiscal year 2021. While many of our stores were open for most of the year, reduced consumer confidence and changes in shopping patterns adversely impacted store

10

Table of Contents
traffic during certain portions of the year, as more consumers were either not shopping or choosing to shop online as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, resurgences of COVID-19 cases led to temporary store closures for portions of the year in certain markets and have impacted, and continue to impact, our supply chain partners, including third-party manufacturers, logistics providers and other vendors. Current vessel, container and other transportation shortages, labor shortages and port congestion globally have delayed and may continue to delay inventory orders and, in turn, deliveries to our customers and availability in our stores and e-commerce sites. Conversely, in the first quarter of 2021, our operating results benefited from customers receiving government stimulus payments related to the COVID-19 pandemic. These stimulus payments are not expected to be reinstated in the near term and, therefore, the benefit to operating results we realized in the first quarter of 2021 due to the stimulus payments is not expected to reoccur. During this period, we are focused on protecting the health and safety of our customers, associates, contractors, suppliers and other business partners. We are also working with our suppliers to minimize potential disruptions, while managing our business in response to a changing dynamic. Due to the uncertainty of COVID-19 and the speed at which the pandemic continues to impact our markets, we are continuing to assess the situation, including government-imposed restrictions, market by market.
We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that COVID-19, including the potential of new variants (which may be more contagious or severe, and may be less responsive to vaccines or treatments), will have on our operations going forward due to uncertainties which will be dictated by the length of time that such disruptions continue, which will, in turn, depend on the currently unknowable duration and spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, actions taken to limit the spread, and the public’s willingness to comply with such actions, the availability and efficacy of a vaccine and positive treatments for COVID-19, and the impact of governmental regulations that might be imposed in response to the pandemic. Numerous state, local and foreign jurisdictions have imposed, and others in the future may impose, shelter-in-place orders, quarantines, executive orders and similar government orders and restrictions for their residents to control the spread of COVID-19. Such orders, restrictions and changes in consumer behavior have negatively impacted our operations, especially in our stores and supply chain. In addition to these more near-term impacts, we are unable to accurately predict the full impact COVID-19 will have on our longer-term operations as well, particularly with respect to our current mix of merchandise offerings, event-based categories and store traffic trends.
To the extent COVID-19 adversely affects our business, operations, financial condition and operating results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, such as those relating to our level of indebtedness, our need to generate sufficient cash flows to service our indebtedness and our ability to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements that govern our indebtedness.
Our net sales, operating income, cash and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.
We experience major seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the fourth quarter holiday season. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Seasonal fluctuations also affect our cash and inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling inventory, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices or may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Separation, which could harm our business.
On August 2, 2021, we completed the separation of the Bath & Body Works and Victoria’s Secret businesses. We may incur significant additional expenses and challenges in connection with the separation of the Victoria’s Secret business, which may include expenses and challenges related to our separation from the Victoria's Secret information technology environment. We are now a smaller and less diversified business than before the Separation, which could make us more vulnerable to changing market and economic conditions. Additionally, a potential loss of synergies from the Separation could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to result from the Separation and the anticipated benefits of the Separation are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the Separation, or if such benefits are delayed, our business could be harmed.

11

Table of Contents
The Separation could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders.
We received an opinion of counsel to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. However, the opinion relies on certain assumptions, representations and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and the opinion would not be valid if such assumptions, representations and undertakings were incorrect. Furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") or the courts. If, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. In addition, if the spin-off is taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of Victoria's Secret & Co. in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable dividend in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received.
Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution would be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of Victoria's Secret & Co. are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. In this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with Victoria's Secret & Co., pursuant to which Victoria's Secret & Co. agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause the spin-off or any related transactions to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. In addition, these potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us.
Victoria’s Secret & Co. continues to provide information technology services to us on a transitional basis, and we may incur significant costs to perform these services ourselves following the transition period. Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.
Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. We rely heavily on applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, data security and support systems including human resources and finance currently supplied to us by Victoria’s Secret & Co. pursuant to the TSA that we entered into in connection with the Separation. Victoria’s Secret & Co. is not in the business of providing information technology outsourcing services and does not have experience providing such services for third-parties. Victoria's Secret & Co. may not successfully execute all of these services during the transition period or we may have to expend significant efforts and/or costs materially in excess of those estimated by us to transition such services to our information technology systems and we may experience delays in such transition period. Any interruption in, or deficiency of, these services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Turnover in Company leadership or other key positions may have an adverse impact on Company performance.
We may experience changes in key leadership or key positions in the future. The departure of key leadership personnel can result in the loss of significant knowledge and experience. This loss of knowledge and experience can be mitigated through successful hiring and transition, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts. Attracting and retaining qualified senior leadership may be more challenging under adverse business conditions. Failure to attract and retain the right talent, or to smoothly manage the transition of responsibilities resulting from such turnover, could affect our ability to meet our challenges and may cause us to miss performance objectives or financial targets or disrupt our relationships with our customers or other third-parties.
On February 22, 2022, our Board appointed then Board Chair Sarah E. Nash as Executive Chair. Effective May 12, 2022, Ms. Nash will be appointed Interim CEO, and Andrew M. Meslow will step down as CEO and as a member of the Board due to health reasons. Our Board is in the process of retaining a national search firm to assist in identifying a permanent CEO. Such leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage, and an inadequate transition may cause disruption to our business, including to our relationships with our associates and other third-parties.
We may be impacted by our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified associates and manage labor-related costs.
We believe our competitive advantage is providing a positive, engaging and satisfying experience for each individual customer, which requires us to have highly trained and engaged associates. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified associates, including store personnel and talented merchants. The turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas. Competition for such qualified individuals or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require us to incur higher labor costs. Our inability to recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay planned openings of new stores or affect the speed with which we expand. Delayed store openings, significant increases in associate turnover rates or significant increases in labor-related costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

12

Table of Contents
An increase in the costs of associate wages, benefits and insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) could adversely affect our operating results. In particular, labor shortages and the current competitive labor market have increased competition for qualified associates, which has compelled, and may continue to compel, us to pay higher wages to attract or retain qualified associates. Such increases in costs may result from general economic or competitive conditions or from government imposition of higher minimum wages at the federal, state or local level, including in connection with the increases in state minimum wages that have recently been enacted by various states. Moreover, there may be a long-term trend toward higher wages in developing markets. Any increase in such operating expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our net sales depend on a volume of traffic to our stores and the availability of suitable lease space.
Most of our stores are located in retail shopping areas including malls and other types of retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those retail areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area, including “destination” retail stores, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Sales volume and retail traffic may be adversely affected by factors that we cannot control, such as economic downturns or changes in consumer demographics in a particular area, consumer trends away from brick-and-mortar retail toward online shopping, competition from internet and other retailers and other retail areas where we do not have stores, significant health hazards or pandemics, the closing of other stores or the decline in popularity or safety in the shopping areas where our stores are located and the deterioration in the financial condition of the operators or developers of the shopping areas in which our stores are located.
Part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. Additionally, we are dependent upon the suitability of the lease spaces that we currently use. The leases that we enter into are generally noncancelable leases with initial terms of 10 years. If we determine that it is no longer economical to operate a store and decide to close it, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term.
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our continued growth and success depends in part on new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions.
Our continued growth and success depends in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to partner with developers and landlords to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel and the integration of new stores into existing operations. There can be no assurance we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our international operations and our plans for international expansion include risks that could impact our results and reputation.
We intend to continue to operate internationally and further expand into international markets through partner arrangements. The risks associated with international markets include difficulties in attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brand, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market. Any of these difficulties may lead to disruption in the overall timing of our international expansion efforts or increased costs. Further, entry into other markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with an established market presence. Other risks include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, volatility in the geopolitical landscape, restrictions on the repatriation of funds held internationally, disruptions or delays in shipments, occurrence of significant health hazards or pandemics, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, political instability and foreign governmental regulation. Such expansions will also have upfront investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient revenues to achieve typical or expected operational and financial performance.
Further, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. See “Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations” below.
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

13

Table of Contents
Our licensees, franchisees and wholesalers could take actions that could harm our business or brand images.
We have global representation through independently owned stores operated by our partners. Although we have criteria to evaluate and select prospective partners, the level of control we can exercise over our partners is limited, and the quality and success of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. For example, our partners may not have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and may not hire and train qualified store managers and other personnel. Further, we have no control as to whether our partners comply with federal and local law. Our brand image and reputation may suffer materially, and our sales could decline, if our partners do not operate successfully. These risks could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our direct channel business includes risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results.
Our direct channel (also referred to as digital or e-commerce) is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results. Risks include, but are not limited to, the difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through our direct channels; domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it outside our control; our ability to anticipate and implement innovations in technology and logistics in order to appeal to existing and potential customers who increasingly rely on multiple channels to meet their shopping needs; and the failure of and risks related to the systems that operate our web infrastructure, websites and the related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions.
Our failure to maintain efficient and uninterrupted order-taking and fulfillment operations could also have a material adverse effect on our results. We utilize third-party service providers for order management and fulfillment services. If these third-party service providers do not maintain efficient and uninterrupted service, we may experience merchandise delivery delays, loss of sales, cancellation charges or excessive promotional activity to clear inventory. Further, we may have difficulty replacing these third-party service providers and there can be no assurance we can do so in a timely manner or on terms favorable to us. The satisfaction of our online customers depends on their timely receipt of merchandise. If we encounter difficulties with the distribution facilities, or if the facilities were to shut down for any reason, including as a result of fire, natural disaster or work stoppage, we could face shortages of inventory; incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers; and cause customer dissatisfaction.
Any of these issues could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our ability to protect our reputation could have a material effect on our brand image.
Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand image. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity, including information publicized through traditional or social media platforms and similar venues such as blogs, websites and other forums, may affect our reputation and brand and, consequently, reduce demand for our merchandise, even if such publicity is unverified or inaccurate.
Failure to comply with or the perception that the Company has failed to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, privacy and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls, to maintain the security of customer, associate, third-party and company information or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.
Our ability, or perceived inability, to complete environmental, social and governance initiatives may have a material effect on our reputation.
There has been an increased focus, including from investors, the general public and U.S. and foreign governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on environmental, social and governance ("ESG") initiatives, including with respect to climate change, greenhouse gases, packaging and waste, human rights, sustainable supply chain practices, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land, energy and water use. As part of our ongoing efforts, we established an ESG function to provide direction and help coordinate ESG work throughout the Company. There may be increased public pressure to expand our disclosures in these areas, make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them, which could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. The metrics we disclose, whether they are based on the standards we set for ourselves or those set by others, may influence our reputation and the value of our brand. Our failure to achieve progress on our metrics on a timely basis, or at all, could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth. By electing to set and share publicly these metrics and expand upon our disclosures, our business may also face increased scrutiny related to ESG activities. As a result, we could damage our reputation and the value of our brand if we fail to act responsibly in the areas in which we report. Any harm to our reputation resulting from setting these metrics, expanding our

14

Table of Contents
disclosure or our failure, or perceived failure, to meet such metrics or disclosures could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth.
We could also be affected by the physical effects of climate change, and other environmental issues, to the extent such issues adversely affect the general economy, adversely impact our supply chain or our stores, or increase the costs of our products and other supplies needed for our operations. In addition, future U.S. and international legislative and regulatory efforts to combat climate change or other environmental considerations could result in increased regulation, and additional taxes and other expenses, in a manner that adversely affects our business.
If our marketing, advertising and promotional programs are unsuccessful, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected.
Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise are influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brand and the location of and service offered in our stores and through our direct business. Although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers through various media, including social media, websites, mobile applications, email, and print, some of our competitors may expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Our programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our ability to adequately maintain, enforce and protect our trade names, trademarks and patents could have an impact on our brand images and ability to penetrate new markets.
We believe that our trade names, trademarks and patents are important assets and an essential element of our strategy. We have obtained or applied for federal registration of these trade names, trademarks and patents and have applied for or obtained registrations in many foreign countries. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such applied for registrations or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement or other violation of our intellectual property rights by others. In particular, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If any third-party copies our products or our stores in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, it could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Third parties may assert rights in or ownership of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, or trademarks that are similar to our trademarks, or claim that we are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction and may be required to enter into costly license agreements, be required to pay significant royalties, settlements costs or damages, be required to rebrand our products and/or be prevented from selling some of our products.
Our ability to compete favorably in our highly competitive segments of the retail industry could impact our results.
The retail industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales with a broad range of other retailers, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. In addition to the traditional store-based retailers, we also compete with direct marketers or retailers that sell similar lines of merchandise and who target customers through online channels. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, assortment, quality, image presentation and fulfillment are all competitive factors in both the store-based and online channels.
Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available and trends across our product categories may favor our competitors. We rely to a greater degree than some of our competitors on physical locations in retail centers. Therefore, declines in traffic to such locations may affect us more significantly than our competitors. Some of our competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same retail centers as our stores. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in retail centers.
Increased competition, combined with declines in store and/or online website traffic, could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of pricing power and market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our ability to manage the life cycle of our brand and to remain current with trends and launch new product lines successfully could impact the image and relevance of our brand.
Our success depends in part on management’s ability to effectively manage the life cycle of our brand and to anticipate and respond to changing preferences and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, salable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. We are dependent on certain product categories, and a decline in consumer demand in these product categories could negatively effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Customer demands and trends change rapidly. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing

15

Table of Contents
preferences or trends or we misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower, potentially resulting in significant amounts of unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions or price markdowns. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by our ability to adequately source, distribute and sell merchandise and other materials on a global basis.
We source merchandise and other materials directly in domestic and international markets. We distribute merchandise and other materials globally to our partners in international locations and to our stores. Many of our imports and exports are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements, including existing or potential duties, tariffs or safeguard quotas. We compete with other companies for production facilities.
We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business on a global basis. For example:
•political instability, environmental hazards or natural disasters which could negatively affect international economies, financial markets and business activity;
•significant health hazards or pandemics, which could result in closed factories and/or stores, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;
•imposition of new or retaliatory trade duties, sanctions or taxes and other charges on imports or exports;
•evolving, new or complex legal and regulatory matters;
•volatility in currency exchange rates;
•local business practice and political issues (including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards) which may result in adverse publicity or threatened or actual adverse consumer actions, including boycotts;
•delays or disruptions in shipping and transportation and related pricing impacts;
•disruption due to labor disputes; and
•changing expectations regarding product safety due to new legislation or other factors.
We also rely upon third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to and from our distribution centers, to our stores and to our customers. Our utilization of these delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in labor costs and fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and associate strikes and inclement weather, which may impact our transportation providers’ ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. Further, the rapid increase in demand for online shopping has led to increased pressure on the capacity of our fulfillment network.
The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility of financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our supply chain partners, including third-party manufacturers, logistics providers and other vendors. Current vessel, container and other transportation shortages, labor shortages and port congestion globally have delayed and may continue to delay inventory orders and, in turn, deliveries to our customers and availability in our stores and e-commerce sites. Disruptions or delays in shipments may have negative impacts to pricing of certain components of our products. The pandemic continues to have the potential to significantly impact our supply chain if the factories that manufacture our products, the distribution centers where we manage our inventory, or the operations of our logistics and other service providers are disrupted, are temporarily closed or experience worker shortages. In addition, the impact of COVID-19 on macroeconomic conditions may impact the proper functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. Even after the COVID-19 global pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience adverse impacts to our business as a result of any economic recession that has occurred or may occur in the future.
We rely on a number of vendor and distribution facilities located in the same vicinity, making our business susceptible to local and regional disruptions or adverse conditions.
To achieve the necessary speed and agility in producing our home fragrance, body care products and soaps and sanitizer products, we rely heavily on vendor and distribution facilities in close proximity to our headquarters in Central Ohio. As a result of geographic concentration of the vendor and distribution facilities that we rely upon, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as accidents, system failures, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes, and other unforeseen events and circumstances. Any significant interruption in the operations of these facilities could lead to inventory issues or increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

16

Table of Contents
A change in the relationship with our key vendors could have a material effect on our business.
We rely on a limited number of vendors to support our inventory purchasing needs. In fiscal year 2021, our largest vendor supplied approximately 12% of our total merchandise purchases and our largest five vendors supplied approximately 35% of our total merchandise purchases on a combined basis. Our business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our vendors and on our vendors’ ability or willingness to sell quality products to us at favorable prices and terms. Many factors outside of our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell us products on favorable terms. For example, financial or operational difficulties that our vendors may face could increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or our ability to source products from them.
We may be impacted by our vendors’ ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner, meet quality standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
We purchase products from third-party vendors. Factors outside our control, such as production, shipping delays, quality problems or natural disasters, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns.
In addition, quality problems could result in product liability judgments or widespread product recalls that may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on product availability, competition reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if product liability claims are unsuccessful or are not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertions could adversely impact our reputation with existing and potential customers and our brand image.
Our business could also suffer if our third-party vendors fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our associates and third-party compliance auditors visit and monitor the operations of our third-party vendors, we do not control these vendors or their practices. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by third-party vendors used by us, or the divergence of a third-party vendor’s or partner’s labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation.
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, our royalty arrangements are calculated based on sales in local currency and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we may use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the short-term negative impacts of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Hedging would generally not be effective in offsetting the long-term impact of sustained shifts in foreign exchange rates on our business results. As a result, the fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our results may be affected by fluctuations in product input costs.
Product input costs, including freight, labor and raw materials, fluctuate subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather and climate conditions, energy costs or natural events or disasters, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, inflationary conditions, labor shortages, transportation issues, fuel costs, product recalls, governmental regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and in many instances are unpredictable. These factors may result in an increase in our production costs. We may not be able to, or may elect not to, pass these increases on to our customers which may adversely impact our profit margins. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our results may be affected by fluctuations in energy costs.
Energy costs have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to changes in factors beyond our control, such as weather and climate conditions or natural events or disasters, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, inflationary conditions, labor shortages, transportation issues, fuel costs, political conflicts and wars, governmental regulation and other factors. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase products from our manufacturers. A continual rise in energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

17

Table of Contents
Our results may be impacted by our ability to adequately protect our assets from loss and theft.
Our assets are subject to loss, including those caused by illegal or unethical conduct by associates, customers, vendors or unaffiliated third parties. We have experienced events such as inventory shrinkage in the past, and we cannot assure that incidences of loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce these losses. Higher rates of loss or increased security costs to combat theft could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by increases in the cost of mailing, paper, printing or other order fulfillment logistics.
Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs will affect the cost of our order fulfillment and promotional mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting. Future paper and postal rate increases could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to recover these costs or if we are unable to implement more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. We may face unexpected costs in transportation, warehousing or other logistics-related services. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We self-insure certain risks and may be impacted by unfavorable claims experience.
We are self-insured for various types of insurable risks including associate medical benefits, workers’ compensation, property, general liability and automobile up to certain stop-loss limits. Claims are difficult to predict and may be volatile. Any adverse claims experience could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We significantly rely on our and our third-party service providers', including Victoria's Secret & Co., ability to implement and sustain information technology systems and to protect associated data and system availability.
Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our and our third-party services providers' and vendors' information technology systems. Our information technology systems, as well as those of our service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to damage, interruption or breach from a variety of sources, including cyberattacks, ransomware attacks, telecommunication failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite maintaining comprehensive measures, some of our systems, e-commerce environments, servers and those of our service providers and vendors are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Such incidents could disrupt our operations including our ability to timely ship and track product orders and project inventory requirements, and lead to interruptions or delays in our supply chain. Additionally, these types of problems could result in an actual or perceived breach of confidential customer, merchandise, financial, associate or other important information (including personal information), which could result in damage to our reputation, costly litigation, customer complaints, negative publicity, breach notification obligations, regulatory or administrative sanctions, inquiries, orders or investigations, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach or penalties for violations of applicable laws or regulations. The increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices may also heighten these and other operational risks. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems or events may nevertheless cause failures in, or unauthorized access to, our and our third-party services providers’ and vendors' information technology systems. Sustained or repeated system disruptions that interrupt our ability to process orders and deliver products to the stores, impact our customers’ ability to access our websites and mobile applications in a timely manner, or expose confidential customer information, merchandise, financial or other important information (including personal information) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
As a result of the Separation, we have entered into a multi-year TSA with Victoria's Secret & Co. for information technology services and systems to support the day-to-day needs for most areas of technology. Over time, we will transition the information technology capabilities from Victoria's Secret & Co. to implement point-of-sale, mobile applications, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, human resources and financial systems on to our own platforms, some of which are yet to be established.
As systems are provided, supported and managed by Victoria's Secret & Co., and eventually transitioned to us, we will be required to establish a number of new information technology systems as well as make hardware, software and code modifications and upgrades to certain existing information technology systems for point-of-sale, e-commerce, mobile apps, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, data security, and support systems including human resources and finance. Modifications involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying our information technology systems, including risks relative to data integrity and system disruptions. Information technology system disruptions or data corruption, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In addition to our own systems, networks and databases, we use third-party service providers to store, transmit and otherwise process certain of this information on our behalf, and our third-party service providers are subject to similar cybersecurity risks.

18

Table of Contents
Due to applicable laws and regulations or contractual obligations, we may be held responsible for any cybersecurity incidents attributed to our service providers as they relate to the information we share with them or to which they are granted access. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and maintain a standard of security (such as implementing reasonable measures), we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in their systems.
Any significant compromise or breach of our data security, including the security of customer, associate, third-party or Company information, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In the operation of our business, we collect, use, transmit and otherwise process a large volume of personal and other confidential, proprietary and sensitive information. Information systems are susceptible to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Breaches or failures of security involving our information systems, including those provided, managed and supported by Victoria's Secret & Co., or those of any of our external service providers have occurred, and in the future may occur. Any significant compromise or breach of our data security, media reports about such an incident, whether accurate or not, or our failure to make adequate or timely disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event, whether due to delayed discovery or a failure to follow existing protocols, could significantly damage our reputation with our customers, associates, investors and other third parties, cause the disclosure of personal, confidential, proprietary or sensitive customer, associate, third-party or company information, cause interruptions to our operations and distraction to our management, cause our customers to stop shopping with us and result in significant legal, regulatory and financial liabilities and lost revenues. Compounding these risks is the complexity of our information systems, which are a collection of our and our third-party service providers’ systems.
While we train our associates and have implemented systems, processes and security measures to protect our physical facilities and information technology systems against unauthorized access and prevent data loss, there is no guarantee that these procedures are adequate to safeguard against all data security threats. Despite these measures, we have been and may in the future be vulnerable to targeted or random attacks on our systems that could lead to security breaches, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, malware, ransomware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or similar events. Our systems and facilities are also subject to compromise from internal threats, such as theft, misuse, unauthorized access or other improper actions by associates, third-party service providers and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems, websites, mobile applications or facilities (which risks may be heightened as a result of work-from-home policies and technologies implemented in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic). Furthermore, because the methods of cyber-attack and deception change frequently, are increasingly complex and sophisticated, and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including nation-state actors, despite our reasonable efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, websites and mobile applications, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate, detect, appropriately react and respond to, or implement effective preventative measures against, all cybersecurity incidents.
We have and may in the future be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against, respond to, and recover from any potential, attempted, or existing cybersecurity incidents. As cybersecurity incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. In addition, our remediation efforts may not be successful, or may not be completed in a timely manner. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, there could be public announcements regarding any cybersecurity incidents and any steps we take to respond to or remediate such incidents, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these announcements to be negative, it could, among other things, have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.
While we currently maintain cybersecurity insurance, such insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to breaches, failures or other data security-related incidents, and we cannot be certain that cyber insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Risks related to our common stock:
Our stock price may be volatile.
Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in our actual or projected performance or the financial performance of other companies in the retail industry. Any guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe are reasonably attainable at the time guidance is given. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside investment analysts or others, our stock price could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk.

19

Table of Contents
The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. In particular, our common stock may in the future be traded by short sellers which may put pressure on the supply and demand for our common stock, further influencing volatility in its market price. Public perception and other factors outside of our control may additionally impact the stock price of companies like us that garner a disproportionate degree of public attention, regardless of actual operating performance.
If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends or repurchase our shares at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be impacted.
Our quarterly cash dividends and share repurchase programs have historically been part of our capital allocation strategy. Although our Board increased the annual dividend to $0.80 per share, beginning with the quarterly dividend paid in March 2022, and authorized a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program in February 2022, we are not required to declare dividends or make any share repurchases under our share repurchase programs in the future. In 2020, we didn't repurchase any of our shares and we suspended our quarterly cash dividends due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Board will determine our future levels of dividend payments and share repurchase authorizations, if any, giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity, the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements, as well as financial and other conditions which may be beyond our control. Any reduction, or failure, to pay dividends or repurchase our shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and our stock price.
Shareholder activism could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of our business strategy and impact our stock price.
Shareholder activism, which can take many forms and arise in a variety of situations, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s and our Board’s attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with our associates, customers or service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant fees and other expenses related to activist shareholder matters, including for third-party advisors. Our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any shareholder activism.
Risks related to our indebtedness:
Our ability to maintain our credit ratings could affect our ability to access capital and could increase our interest expense.
The credit rating agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. A deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our Company or our industry and could limit our access to funding for our operations. We are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs will likely increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, changes to our credit ratings could affect our future interest costs.
We may be unable to service or refinance our debt or maintain compliance with restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, including our asset-backed revolving credit facility.
We currently have substantial indebtedness. Our asset-backed revolving credit facility contains a covenant and negative covenants that under certain circumstances require maintenance of a certain financial ratio and also, under certain conditions, restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common shares and make other restricted payments as defined in the agreement. Our cash flow from operations provides the primary source of funds for our debt service payments. If our cash flow from operations declines, we may be unable to service or refinance our current debt. If we fail to comply with any covenant, including our financial covenant, it could result in an event of default and our lenders could terminate the commitments under our asset-backed revolving credit facility and make the entire debt incurred thereunder immediately due and payable or we may be forced to sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital, which would dilute our stockholders’ interests.

20

Table of Contents
The interest rates on our credit facilities may be impacted by the phase-out of LIBOR and the transition to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”).
Interest rates on U.S. borrowings under our asset-backed revolving credit facility ("ABL Facility") are based on LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that administers LIBOR) announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2023. It remains unclear what rate or rates may develop as accepted alternatives to LIBOR, or what the effect of such changes will be on the markets for LIBOR-based financial instruments. As of the date hereof, the current recommended replacement for USD-LIBOR is SOFR. While we currently do not have any borrowings outstanding under our ABL Facility, any transition away from LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the applicable interest rate is complex and will affect the cost of servicing any future debt under our ABL Facility. Although the ABL Facility provides for alternative base rates, the composition and characteristics of such alternative base rates are not the same as those of LIBOR, and the consequences of the phase-out of LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted at this time.
Risks related to law and regulation:
Changes in laws, regulations or technology platform rules relating to data privacy and security, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations, or contractual or other obligations relating to data privacy and security, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We are, and may increasingly become, subject to various laws, directives, industry standards and regulations, as well as contractual obligations, relating to data privacy and security in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The legal and regulatory environment related to data privacy and security is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. These laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied differently over time and from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and it is possible that they will be interpreted and applied in ways that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In the U.S., privacy and data protection are regulated at federal, state, and local levels. Various federal and state regulators, including governmental agencies like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission, have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations concerning personal information and data security and have prioritized privacy and information security violations for enforcement actions. Certain state laws may be more stringent or broader in scope, or offer greater individual rights, with respect to personal information than federal, international or other state laws, and such laws may differ from each other, all of which may complicate compliance efforts.
Laws range from the “sectoral” variety (i.e. laws that govern specific practices, services, or technologies) to omnibus laws (i.e. laws that comprehensively seek to govern all aspects of data processing practices). As an online and brick-and-mortar retailer, we are subject to both.
In North America, we are subject to sectoral laws that impose different enforcement regimes, whether via government agencies or class-action litigants, with fines and statutory damages that can result in significant exposure when applied to large customer segments. Illustrative of the sectoral variety are laws that govern telephonic communications (e.g., the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act), email communications (e.g., the Federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, and Canada’s Anti-Spam Legislation), the use of biometric technology (e.g., the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act), the printing of payment card digits on a store receipt (e.g., the Federal Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act), the use of call recordings (e.g., Federal and state laws governing consent for recordings), the collection of consumer information at retail point of sale (e.g., the California Song-Beverly Act), and the collection of driver’s license information (e.g., state laws governing the scanning of government ID’s).
We are further subject to omnibus privacy and data protection laws. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which broadly governs data privacy practices, increases privacy rights for California residents and imposes obligations on companies that process their personal information, went into effect on January 1, 2020. Among other things, the CCPA requires covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers and provide such consumers new data protection and privacy rights, including the ability to opt-out of certain data sharing arrangements of personal information, and the ability to access and delete personal information. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that result in the loss of certain classifications of personal information. This private right of action may increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. Furthermore, in November 2020, California voters passed the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (“CPRA”). Effective beginning January 1, 2023, the CPRA imposes additional obligations on companies covered by the legislation and will significantly modify the CCPA, including by expanding California residents’ rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information. The CPRA also creates a new state agency that will be vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA and CPRA. Other states and countries have passed comprehensive data privacy laws that are similar to the CCPA and CPRA, further complicating the legal landscape, and similar legislation is pending in more states. In addition, laws in all 50 U.S. states require businesses to provide notice to

21

Table of Contents
consumers (and, in some cases, to regulators) when certain classifications of personal information have been accessed or acquired as a result of a data breach. State laws are changing rapidly and there is discussion in Congress of a new comprehensive federal data privacy law to which we would become subject if it is enacted, which may add additional complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions and potential legal risk, require additional investment of resources in compliance programs, impact strategies and the availability of previously useful data and could result in increased compliance costs or changes in business practices and policies.
While most of our international operations are conducted through franchise, license and wholesale arrangements, we are also subject to certain international laws, regulations and standards in certain international jurisdictions and may be subject to additional international laws, regulations and standards, whether existing or enacted in the future, that apply broadly to the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal information. One set of laws applicable to us is Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (“PIPEDA”), which became effective on January 1, 2001, as well as substantially similar provincial privacy laws. These privacy statutes broadly govern the entire lifecycle of personal information, enumerating principles that govern accountability; purpose; consent; limitations on collection, use, disclosure, and retention; accuracy; safeguards, transparency; right to access; and complaint-handling. Certain of the statutes also contain a mandatory breach notification regime. Federal and provincial authorities enforce these laws. Privacy regulators have an express obligation to investigate complaints, and have the authority to initiate investigations. Under PIPEDA, the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada has the power to require an organization to enter into a compliance agreement and failure to comply may result in a court order or court proceedings. A complainant may also appeal to Federal Court and the court has broad authority including awarding damages. Similarly, the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective in May 2018, greatly increased the European Commission’s jurisdictional reach of its laws and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, and the GDPR serves and has served as a model for other jurisdictions’ data protection laws. EU member states are tasked under the GDPR to enact, and have enacted, certain implementing legislation that adds to and/or further interprets the GDPR requirements and, depending on the extent and degree to which we conduct business in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and United Kingdom, potentially extends our obligations and potential liability for failing to meet such obligations. The GDPR, together with national legislation, regulations and guidelines of the EU member states and the United Kingdom governing the processing of personal data, impose strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, use, retain, protect, disclose, transfer and otherwise process personal data, and other international jurisdictions are expected to pass similar laws that may include even more stringent requirements. Changes in such international laws, or changes in our business strategy such as direct expansions into additional jurisdictions may cause us to incur additional compliance costs, increase our risks of being subject to lawsuits, complaints and/or regulatory investigations or fines, or restrict our ability to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate or may in the future operate. Such international laws, and our compliance with such laws, could impact the manner in which we do business and the geographical location or segregation of our relevant operations, and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs, such as costs related to organizational changes, implementing additional protection technologies, and training associates and engaging consultants, which are likely to increase over time. In addition, such requirements may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies, distract management or divert resources from other initiatives and projects, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with any applicable federal, state or similar foreign laws and regulations relating to data privacy and security could result in damage to our reputation and our relationship with our customers, as well as proceedings or litigation by governmental agencies or customers, including class-action privacy and data-protection litigation in certain jurisdictions, which could subject us to significant fines, sanctions, awards, penalties or judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by our ability to comply with regulatory requirements.
We are subject to numerous regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable foreign and domestic laws and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), among others. Although we have put in place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our associates, subcontractors, vendors, licensees, franchisees and other third parties could take actions that violate these laws and regulations. Any violations of such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
It can be difficult to comply with sometimes conflicting regulations in local, national or foreign jurisdictions as well as new or changing regulations. Also, changes in such laws could make operating our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It may be difficult for us to

22

Table of Contents
oversee regulatory changes impacting our business, and our responses to changes in the law could be costly and may negatively impact our operations.
We may be adversely impacted by certain compliance or legal matters.
We, along with third parties we do business with, are subject to complex compliance and litigation risks. Actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, wage and hour, data privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. In addition, notwithstanding our adoption of CDC-recommended guidelines and preventative efforts to ensure the health and safety of our customers and associates, it is possible that our customers and associates may contract COVID-19 while at our stores or facilities, which could subject us to litigation. The cost of defending against these types of claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims, whether by settlement or adverse court decision, may harm our business. Further, potential claimants may be encouraged to bring suits based on a settlement from us or adverse court decisions against us. We cannot currently assess the likely outcome of such suits, but if the outcome were negative, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In addition, we may be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and stockholders, that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by changes in taxation, trade and other regulatory requirements.
We are subject to income tax in local, national and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
There is increased uncertainty with respect to tax policy and trade relations between the U.S. and other countries, including as a result of any executive action taken or legislative priorities set by the current U.S. presidential administration. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.
None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The following table provides the location, use and size of our Company-operated distribution, corporate and product development facilities as of January 29, 2022:

------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------
Location Use ApproximateSquareFootage
Columbus, Ohio area Office, distribution center and shipping facilities 3,928,000
Other North America Office and product development/design 69,000

We own five office, distribution center and shipping facilities located in the Columbus, Ohio area. These buildings comprise approximately 3.9 million square feet. We are also investing in a new 1.0 million square foot Company-operated leased direct channel fulfillment center in Columbus, Ohio which we expect to be operational in Fall 2022, and at full capacity in Fall 2023.
We lease various other office and product development/design locations in North America, primarily in New York.

23

Table of Contents
Third-party Operated Fulfillment and Distribution Centers
We utilize six permanent third-party operated direct channel fulfillment centers in North America, comprising approximately 3.2 million square feet, that allow us to reduce in transit times for our direct channel orders. We also utilize six third-party operated regional distribution centers in North America, comprising approximately 1.0 million square feet, that enable us to position inventory geographically closer to our stores.
Company-operated Stores
As of January 29, 2022, we operate 1,651 retail stores located in leased facilities throughout the U.S. A substantial portion of these lease commitments consists of store leases generally with an initial term of 10 years. These store leases expire at various dates between 2022 and 2034.
As of January 29, 2022, we also operate 104 retail stores located in leased facilities throughout the Canadian provinces. These lease commitments consist of store leases generally with initial terms of 5 to 10 years. These store leases expire at various dates between 2022 and 2031.
International Partner-operated Stores
As of January 29, 2022, our partners operate 338 retail stores in more than 35 countries.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
We are a defendant in a variety of lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. Actions filed against our Company from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, data privacy, securities and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any litigation, in the opinion of management, our current legal proceedings are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.
On May 19, 2020 and January 12, 2021, certain of our stockholders filed derivative lawsuits in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio (subsequently removed to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio) and the Delaware Court of Chancery, respectively, naming as defendants certain current and former directors and officers of ours and alleging, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty through asserted violations of law and failures to monitor workplace conduct (the "Lawsuits"). In addition, we also received litigation and books-and-records demands from certain other stockholders related to the same matters (together with the Lawsuits, the "Actions").
In July 2021, we announced the global settlement resolving the Actions. The settlement resolves all derivative claims that have been or could have been asserted in the Actions or that involve in any way the allegations referred to in the Actions and releases all such claims against us and our past and present employees, officers and directors, among others. As part of the settlement, we have agreed to implement certain management and governance measures, including the maintenance of a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council. Following the August 2, 2021 spin-off of Victoria’s Secret & Co., the settlement terms will apply to both us and Victoria’s Secret & Co. Each company has committed to invest $45 million over at least five years to fund the management and governance measures. The settlement is subject to approval of the United States District Court of the Southern District of Ohio.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.

Not applicable.

24

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 29, 2022, there were approximately 31,000 stockholders of record. However, including active associates who participate in our stock purchase plan, associates who own shares through our sponsored retirement plans and others holding shares in broker accounts under street names, we estimate the shareholder base to be approximately 177,000.
The following table provides our quarterly market prices and cash dividends per share for 2021 and 2020:

-------------- ---------------- ----- -------------------------- ----- - ----- ---- - ----
 Market Price (a) Cash Dividendper Share (b)
 High Low
 2021
Fourth quarter $ 82.00 $ 50.94 $ 0.15
Third quarter 72.56 58.28 0.15
Second quarter 65.47 49.73 0.15
First quarter 55.21 32.47 —
 2020
Fourth quarter $ 39.05 $ 26.02 $ —
Third quarter 28.63 19.23 —
Second quarter 21.55 8.11 —
First quarter 20.42 6.47 0.30
 _______________
(a)Market prices prior to August 3, 2021 have been adjusted to give effect to the Victoria's Secret & Co. spin-off.
(b)Our Board suspended our quarterly cash dividend beginning in the second quarter of 2020. In March 2021, our Board reinstated our annual dividend at $0.60 per share, beginning with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2021. In February 2022, our Board increased the annual dividend to $0.80 per share and declared the quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share, paid on March 4, 2022, to stockholders of record as of February 18, 2022.

25

Table of Contents
The following graph shows the changes, over the past five-year period, in the value of $100 invested in our common stock, the Standard & Poor’s ("S&P") 500 Composite Stock Price Index and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retail Composite Index.
COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN (a)(b)
AMONG BATH & BODY WORKS, INC., THE S&P 500 INDEX AND THE S&P 500 RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX

_______________
(a)This table represents $100 invested in stock or in index at the closing price on January 28, 2017, including reinvestment of dividends.
(b)Stock prices prior to August 3, 2021 have been adjusted to give effect to the Victoria's Secret & Co. spin-off.
The following table provides our repurchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2021:

------------- --------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ------ - -------
Period TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased (a) Average PricePaid perShare (b) Total Numberof SharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnouncedPrograms (c) MaximumDollar Value of Sharesthat MayYet be PurchasedUnder the Programs (c)
 (in thousands) (in thousands)
November 2021 1,907 $ 75.11 1,905 $ 262,004
December 2021 2,628 71.99 2,621 73,273
January 2022 1,199 61.18 1,198 —
Total 5,734 5,724
 ________________
(a)The total number of shares repurchased includes shares repurchased in connection with tax payments due upon vesting of associate restricted stock awards and the use of our stock to pay the exercise price on associate stock options.
(b)The average price paid per share includes any broker commissions.
(c)For additional share repurchase program information, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

ITEM 6. [Reserved]

26

Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") as codified in the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). The following information should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Our operating results are generally impacted by economic changes and, therefore, we monitor the retail environment using, among other things, certain key industry performance indicators including competitor performance and store traffic data. These indicators can provide insight into consumer spending patterns and shopping behavior in the current retail environment and assist us in assessing our performance as well as the potential impact of industry trends on our future operating results. Additionally, we evaluate a number of key performance indicators including comparable sales, gross profit, operating income and other performance metrics such as sales per average selling square foot in assessing our performance.
Victoria's Secret Spin-Off
On August 2, 2021, we completed the tax-free spin-off of our Victoria's Secret business, which included the Victoria's Secret and PINK brands, into an independent publicly traded company. As a result, the operating results of, and costs to separate, the Victoria's Secret business are reported in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) for all periods presented. In addition, the related assets and liabilities are reported as Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued Operations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Unless otherwise noted, all amounts, percentages and discussions reflect only the results of operations and financial condition from our continuing operations.
Victoria’s Secret & Co. is providing technology services and systems to us under a TSA while we create independent system environments, which we believe will help to minimize dis-synergies. Over the next two to three years we expect future capital and expense related to standing up a separate information technology function for our Company.
Impacts of COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant public health concerns as well as economic disruption, uncertainty and volatility. Our operations and financial performance have been materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In the first quarter of 2020, all of our Company-operated stores were closed on March 17, 2020, but we were able to re-open the majority of our stores as of the end of the second quarter of 2020. Our direct business remained open for the duration of 2020. During 2020, we took prudent actions to manage expenses and to maintain our cash position and financial flexibility.
We adopted new operating models focused on safety in connection with the pandemic. We continue to remain focused on providing a safe store environment for our customers and associates, while also delivering an engaging shopping experience. We also remain focused on the safe operations of our corporate facilities and our distribution and fulfillment centers while maximizing our direct business. There remains the potential for COVID-related closures or operating restrictions, which could materially impact our operations and financial performance in future periods.
Executive and 2021 Overview
The transformation of our business that started in 2020 continued into 2021 with the successful separation of L Brands, Inc. into Bath & Body Works, Inc. and Victoria’s Secret & Co. as separate, standalone companies in August 2021. The Separation enables us to pursue growth strategies best suited to our customer base and strategic objectives, with a goal to return the highest value to our stockholders. We have a demonstrated record of consistent sales and operating income growth, as well as a proven ability to respond quickly to evolving customer tastes with a high-speed sourcing and logistics model. With high brand awareness and an increasingly loyal and growing customer base, we believe we are well positioned for continued growth in North America, as well as globally.
For 2021, sales were $7.882 billion, an increase of 22% compared to sales of $6.434 billion in 2020. Our gross profit increased $759 million to $3.855 billion driven by the increase in sales. Our gross profit rate increased to 48.9% from 48.1%, principally driven by sales leverage on our buying and occupancy expenses, partially offset by a decline in the merchandise margin rate. Increased inflationary costs amounted to approximately $175 million, most of which impacted gross margin. General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses were $1.846 billion for 2021, an increase of 24% compared to 2020, and the rate increased by 20 basis points. The dollar increase was driven by higher store selling expenses given pandemic-related store closures in 2020 and an increase in marketing expense as we returned to more normalized activity. Operating income for 2021 was $2.009 billion, an increase of 25% compared to 2020, and the operating income rate increased by 60 basis points to 25.5%.
For additional information related to our 2021 financial performance, see “Results of Operations – 2021 Compared to 2020.”

27

Table of Contents
2022 Outlook
We believe that the Bath & Body Works brand is strong, with continued opportunities for growth. In 2022, we are investing in the business to support long-term growth, and there are macroeconomic factors, such as inflation, that will impact our results. The following macroeconomic pressures and investments could impact our results of operations and cash flows in 2022:
•We are lapping two years of extraordinary growth in the business. Since 2019, sales have increased by 46%, and operating income has increased by 93%. The first quarter of 2021 benefited from customers receiving government stimulus payments;
•We are experiencing increased inflationary pressures in raw materials, energy and fuel costs as well as transportation and wage rates. We estimate that these increased and incremental costs could range between $150 million and $175 million throughout 2022. While we have strategically raised prices and are carefully managing promotional activity to partially offset these costs, we plan to be thoughtful about customer response to additional price increases;
•We continue to invest in the customer experience and plan to introduce our loyalty program to the balance of our U.S. chain starting in summer 2022. We expect that the loyalty program will drive sales and customer retention, deepening our relationships with customers over the long-term. The introduction of the program will result in an initial revenue deferral for our customers’ accumulated points until they are used; and
•We are experiencing some deleverage and incremental project costs as we build and separate our own technology function to support our standalone business. We are also investing in a new Company-operated fulfillment center to complement our existing third-party network.

28

Table of Contents
Adjusted Financial Information from Continuing Operations
In addition to our results provided in accordance with GAAP above and throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provided below are non-GAAP measurements which present operating income, net income from continuing operations and earnings from continuing operations per share in 2021, 2020 and 2019 on an adjusted basis, which remove certain special items. We believe that these special items are not indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and nature. We use adjusted financial information as key performance measures of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Instead, we believe that the presentation of adjusted financial information provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Further, our definitions of adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies. The table below reconciles the GAAP financial measures to the non-GAAP financial measures.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ------ ---- ----- ---- - -----
(in millions, except per share amounts) 2021 2020 2019
Reconciliation of Reported Operating Income to Adjusted Operating Income
Reported Operating Income $ 2,009 $ 1,604 $ 1,040
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) 9 — —
Restructuring Charges (b) — 30 —
Adjusted Operating Income $ 2,019 $ 1,634 $ 1,040

Reconciliation of Reported Net Income from Continuing Operations to Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations
Reported Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 1,075 $ 865 $ 460
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) 9 — —
Restructuring Charges (b) — 30 —
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt (c) 195 53 40
La Senza Charges (d) — — 37
Tax Benefit from the Resolution of Certain Tax Matters (e) — (50) —
Tax Benefit of Special Items in Operating Income and Other Loss (49) (18) (19)
Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 1,230 $ 878 $ 517

Reconciliation of Reported Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share to Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share
Reported Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share $ 3.94 $ 3.07 $ 1.65
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) 0.03 — —
Restructuring Charges (b) — 0.08 —
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt (c) 0.54 0.14 0.11
La Senza Charges (d) — — 0.10
Tax Benefit from the Resolution of Certain Tax Matters (e) — (0.18) —
Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share $ 4.51 $ 3.12 $ 1.86
 ________________
(a)In the fourth quarter of 2021, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $9 million ($7 million after tax) related to the write-off of inventory that was destroyed by a tornado at a vendor's facility.
(b)In the second quarter of 2020, we recognized pre-tax severance charges of $30 million ($24 million after tax) related to restructuring activities. For additional information, see Note 5, “Restructuring Activities" included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(c)In the third and first quarters of 2021, we recognized pre-tax losses of $89 million and $105 million (after-tax losses of $68 million and $80 million), respectively, due to the early extinguishment of outstanding notes. In the third quarter of 2020, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $53 million (after-tax loss of $40 million) due to the early extinguishment of outstanding notes. In the second quarter of 2019, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $40 million (after-tax loss of $30 million) due to the early extinguishment of outstanding notes. For additional information, see Note 13, "Long-term Debt and Borrowing Facilities" included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

29

Table of Contents
(d)In the third quarter of 2019, we recognized $37 million of pre-tax charges ($28 million after-tax) to increase reserves related to ongoing contingent obligations for the La Senza business, which was sold in the fourth quarter of 2018. For additional information see Note 16, "Commitments and Contingencies" included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(e)In the first quarter of 2020, we recognized a $50 million tax benefit related to the resolution of certain tax matters. For additional information see Note 12, "Income Taxes" included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Company-Operated Store Data
The following table compares U.S. Company-operated store data for 2021, 2020 and 2019:

------------------------------------------ ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- -------- ---- ----- - -- - -- --
 % Change
 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020
Sales per Average Selling Square Foot (a) $ 1,220 $ 916 $ 931 33 % (2 %)
Sales per Average Store (in thousands) (a) $ 3,279 $ 2,424 $ 2,428 35 % — %
Average Store Size (selling square feet) 2,716 2,660 2,631 2 % 1 %
Total Selling Square Feet (in thousands) 4,485 4,343 4,306 3 % 1 %

 ________________
(a)Sales per average selling square foot and sales per average store, which are indicators of store productivity, are calculated based on store sales for the period divided by the average, including the beginning and end of period, of total square footage and store count, respectively. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, all our stores in the U.S. were closed on March 17, 2020 with the majority having been re-opened as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2020. As a result, full year comparisons to 2020 are not a meaningful way to evaluate our operating results.

The following table represents Company-operated store data for 2021:

----------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- -----
 Stores Stores
 January 30, 2021 Opened Closed January 29, 2022
United States 1,633 53 (35) 1,651
Canada 103 1 — 104
Total Bath & Body Works 1,736 54 (35) 1,755

The following table represents Company-operated store data for 2020:

----------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- -----
 Stores Stores
 February 1, 2020 Opened Closed January 30, 2021
United States 1,637 26 (30) 1,633
Canada 102 1 — 103
Total Bath & Body Works 1,739 27 (30) 1,736

The following table represents Company-operated store data for 2019:

----------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- -----
 Stores Stores
 February 2, 2019 Opened Closed February 1, 2020
United States 1,619 38 (20) 1,637
Canada 102 1 (1) 102
Total Bath & Body Works 1,721 39 (21) 1,739

30

Table of Contents
Partner-Operated Store Data
The following table represents partner-operated store data for 2021:

----------------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- ---
 Stores Stores
 January 30, 2021 Opened Closed January 29, 2022
International 270 55 (8) 317
International - Travel Retail 18 3 — 21
Total International 288 58 (8) 338

The following table represents partner-operated store data for 2020:

----------------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- ---
 Stores Stores
 February 1, 2020 Opened Closed January 30, 2021
International 262 12 (4) 270
International - Travel Retail 16 2 — 18
Total International 278 14 (4) 288

The following table represents partner-operated store data for 2019:

----------------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- ---
 Stores Stores
 February 2, 2019 Opened Closed February 1, 2020
International 223 43 (4) 262
International - Travel Retail 12 4 — 16
Total International 235 47 (4) 278

Results of Operations—2021 Compared to 2020
For 2021, operating income increased $405 million to $2.009 billion, and the operating income rate increased to 25.5% from 24.9%. The drivers of the operating income results are discussed in the following sections.
Net Sales
The following table provides net sales for 2021 in comparison to 2020:

------------------------ ------------- ----- ---- ----- -------- ----- ---- -- ---- -
 2021 2020 % Change
 (in millions)
Stores - U.S. and Canada $ 5,709 $ 4,207 35.7 %
Direct - U.S. and Canada 1,890 2,003 (5.7 %)
International (a) 283 224 26.7 %
Total Net Sales $ 7,882 $ 6,434 22.5 %

________________
(a)Results include royalties associated with franchised store and wholesale sales.
The following table provides a reconciliation of net sales for 2020 to 2021:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------- -----
 (in millions)
2020 Net Sales $ 6,434
Comparable Store Sales 76
Sales Associated with New, Closed and Non-comparable Remodeled Stores, Net (a) 1,414
Direct Channels (113)
International Wholesale, Royalty and Other 59
Foreign Currency Translation 12
2021 Net Sales $ 7,882
________________

31

Table of Contents
(a)Includes the increased sales period over period due to the 2020 COVID-19-related stores closures.

The following table compares 2021 comparable sales to 2020:

---------------------------------------- ---- -- ---- -- -
 2021 2020
Comparable Sales (Stores and Direct) (a) (1 %) 45 %
Comparable Store Sales (a) 2 % 26 %

 ________________
(a)The percentage change in comparable sales represents direct and comparable store sales. The percentage change in comparable store sales represents the change in sales at comparable stores only and excludes the change in sales from our direct channels. The change in comparable sales provides an indication of period over period growth (decline). A store is typically included in the calculation of comparable sales when it has been open 12 months or more and it has not had a change in selling square footage of 20% or more. Closed stores are excluded from the comparable sales calculation if they have been closed for four consecutive days or more. Upon re-opening, the stores are included in the calculation. Therefore, comparable sales results exclude the closure period of stores that were closed for four consecutive days or more as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, stores are excluded if total selling square footage in the center changes by 20% or more through the opening or closing of a second store. The percentage change in comparable sales is calculated on a comparable calendar period as opposed to a fiscal basis. Comparable sales attributable to our Canadian stores are calculated on a constant currency basis.
For 2021, net sales increased $1.448 billion to $7.882 billion. Net sales increased in the stores channel $1.502 billion, or 35.7%, primarily due to the COVID-19-related store closures in 2020. In the direct channel, net sales decreased $113 million, or 5.7%, primarily due to the reopening of stores this year, as compared to the prior year when stores were closed which drove an increase in sales in the direct channel. International net sales increased by $59 million, or 26.7%, due to increases in partner-operated stores and digital sites as well as the COVID-19-related closures in 2020.
Performance was strong throughout the period as we saw positive customer response to our merchandise. We experienced growth in fragrant body care, home fragrance and gifting and accessories. As expected, soaps and sanitizers declined versus 2020's meaningful growth.
Gross Profit
For 2021, our gross profit increased $759 million to $3.855 billion, and our gross profit rate (expressed as a percentage of net sales) increased to 48.9% from 48.1%. Gross profit increased due to the increase in merchandise margin dollars related to the increase in net sales, partially offset by higher occupancy expenses due to the increase in net sales. The gross profit rate increased due to buying and occupancy leverage on higher net sales, partially offset by a decline in the merchandise margin rate as a result of increased inflationary costs.
General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses
For 2021, our general, administrative and store operating expenses increased $354 million to $1.846 billion, and the rate increased to 23.4% from 23.2%. General, administrative and store operating expenses increased due to higher store selling expenses given pandemic-related store closures in 2020, an increase in marketing expense as we returned to more normalized activity and an increase in charitable contributions to support philanthropic funds. These increases were partially offset by severance and related costs associated with headcount reductions totaling $30 million in the prior year. The general, administrative and store operating expense rate increased primarily due to the increase in marketing investments.
Other Income (Loss) and Expenses
Interest Expense
The following table provides the average daily borrowings and average borrowing rates for 2021 and 2020:

-------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2021 2020
Average daily borrowings (in millions) $ 5,409 $ 6,317
Average borrowing rate 7.2 % 6.8 %

For 2021, our interest expense decreased $44 million to $388 million due to lower average daily borrowings partially offset by a higher average borrowing rate.

32

Table of Contents
Other Loss
For 2021, our other loss was $198 million, consisting primarily of $195 million pre-tax losses associated with the early extinguishment of outstanding notes. For 2020, our other loss was $50 million, consisting primarily of a $53 million pre-tax loss associated with the early extinguishment of outstanding notes.
Provision for Income Taxes
For 2021, our effective tax rate was 24.5% compared to 22.9% in 2020. The 2021 rate is in line with our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate. The 2020 rate was lower than our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate primarily due to the resolution of certain tax matters, which resulted in a $50 million tax benefit.
Results of Operations—Fourth Quarter of 2021 Compared to Fourth Quarter of 2020
For the fourth quarter of 2021, operating income increased $9 million to $879 million, and the operating income rate decreased to 29.0% from 32.0%. The drivers of the operating income results are discussed in the following sections.
Net Sales
The following table provides net sales for the fourth quarter of 2021 in comparison to the fourth quarter of 2020:

------------------------ ------------- ----- ---- --- -------- ----- ---- - ---- -
 2021 2020 % Change
 (in millions)
Stores - U.S. and Canada $ 2,191 $ 1,903 15.1 %
Direct - U.S. and Canada 764 750 1.9 %
International (a) 72 66 11.5 %
Total Net Sales $ 3,027 $ 2,719 11.4 %

________________
(a)Results include royalties associated with franchised store and wholesale sales.
The following table provides a reconciliation of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2020 to the fourth quarter of 2021:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -----
 (in millions)
2020 Net Sales $ 2,719
Comparable Store Sales 199
Sales Associated with New, Closed and Non-comparable Remodeled Stores, Net 87
Direct Channels 14
International, Wholesale, Royalty and Other 6
Foreign Currency Translation 2
2021 Net Sales $ 3,027

The following table compares fourth quarter of 2021 comparable sales to fourth quarter of 2020:

---------------------------------------- ---- - ---- -- -
 2021 2020
Comparable Sales (Stores and Direct) (a) 7 % 22 %
Comparable Store Sales (a) 11 % 9 %

 ________________
(a)The percentage change in comparable sales represents direct and comparable store sales. The percentage change in comparable store sales represents the change in sales at comparable stores only and excludes the change in sales from our direct channels. The change in comparable sales provides an indication of period over period growth (decline). A store is typically included in the calculation of comparable sales when it has been open 12 months or more and it has not had a change in selling square footage of 20% or more. Closed stores are excluded from the comparable sales calculation if they have been closed for four consecutive days or more. Upon re-opening, the stores are included in the calculation. Therefore, comparable sales results exclude the closure period of stores that were closed for four consecutive days or more as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, stores are excluded if total selling square footage in the center changes by 20% or more through the opening or closing of a second store. The percentage change in comparable sales is calculated on a comparable calendar period as opposed to a fiscal basis. Comparable sales attributable to our Canadian stores are calculated on a constant currency basis.

33

Table of Contents
For the fourth quarter of 2021, net sales increased $308 million to $3.027 billion. Net sales increased in the stores channel by $288 million, or 15.1%, primarily due to an increase in sales transactions and in the average dollar sale. In addition, store capacity constraints due to COVID-19 protocols were less restrictive than the fourth quarter of 2020, which benefited store traffic. Direct net sales increased $14 million, or 1.9%, primarily due to the launch of our e-commerce site in Canada, partially offset by a decline in digital traffic given the impact from the store restrictions last year. International net sales increased by $6 million, or 11.5%, due to increases in partner-operated stores and digital sites.
In terms of category performance, during the fourth quarter of 2021, we experienced solid growth in fragrant body care, home fragrance and gifting and accessories compared to 2020. As expected, soaps and sanitizers declined versus the meaningful growth experienced in 2020.
Gross Profit
For the fourth quarter of 2021, our gross profit increased $39 million to $1.446 billion, and our gross profit rate (expressed as a percentage of net sales) decreased to 47.8% from 51.7%. Gross profit increased due to the increase in merchandise margin dollars related to the increase in net sales, partially offset by higher occupancy expenses due to the increase in net sales. The gross profit rate decreased primarily due to a decline in the merchandise margin rate driven by increased inflationary costs, and buying and occupancy expense deleverage driven by lapping one-time rent concessions in the fourth quarter of 2020 and continued investments in direct fulfillment capabilities.
General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses
For the fourth quarter of 2021, our general, administrative and store operating expenses increased $30 million to $567 million and the rate decreased to 18.7% from 19.8%. General, administrative and store operating expenses increased principally driven by an increase in marketing as we returned to more normalized activity and an increase in technology costs as we began the work to stand up a separate information technology function following the spin-off of Victoria’s Secret & Co., partially offset by a decline in store payroll primarily due to lower bonus payouts. The general, administrative and store operating expense rate decreased primarily due to leverage on higher net sales.
Other Income (Loss) and Expenses
Interest Expense
The following table provides the average daily borrowings and average borrowing rates for the fourth quarter of 2021 and 2020:

-------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2021 2020
Average daily borrowings (in millions) $ 4,915 $ 6,449
Average borrowing rate 7.1 % 7.2 %

For the fourth quarter of 2021, our interest expense decreased $29 million to $87 million due to both lower average daily borrowings and average borrowing rate.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the fourth quarter of 2021, our effective tax rate was 25.1% compared to 25.9% in 2020. The 2021 and 2020 rates are generally consistent with our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate.
Results of Operations—2020 Compared to 2019
For 2020, operating income increased $564 million to $1.604 billion, and the operating income rate increased to 24.9% from 19.2%. The drivers of the operating income results are discussed in the following sections.
Net Sales
The following table provides net sales for 2020 in comparison to 2019:

------------------------ ------------- ----- ---- --- -------- ----- ------ -- ---- --
 2020 2019 % Change
 (in millions)
Stores - U.S. and Canada $ 4,207 $ 4,212 (0.1 %)
Direct - U.S. and Canada 2,003 958 109.1 %
International (a) 224 185 20.8 %
Other (b) — 50 (100.0 %)
Total Net Sales $ 6,434 $ 5,405 19.0 %
________________
(a)Results include royalties associated with franchised store and wholesale sales.

34

Table of Contents
(b)Results include wholesale revenues to La Senza subsequent to our divestiture of the business in 2018.
The following table provides a reconciliation of net sales for 2019 to 2020:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- -- ----- - -----
 Bath &Body Works Other Total
 (in millions)
2019 Net Sales $ 5,355 $ 50 $ 5,405
Comparable Store Sales 824 — 824
Sales Associated with New, Closed and Non-comparable Remodeled Stores, Net (a) (830) — (830)
Direct Channels 1,045 — 1,045
International Wholesale, Royalty and Other 39 (50) (11)
Foreign Currency Translation 1 — 1
2020 Net Sales $ 6,434 $ — $ 6,434
________________
(a)Includes the impact of COVID-19-related stores closures.

The following table compares 2020 comparable sales to 2019:

---------------------------------------- ---- - ---- -- -
 2020 2019
Comparable Sales (Stores and Direct) (a) 45 % 10 %
Comparable Store Sales (a) 26 % 5 %

 ________________
(a)The percentage change in comparable sales represents direct and comparable store sales. The percentage change in comparable store sales represents the change in sales at comparable stores only and excludes the change in sales from our direct channels. The change in comparable sales provides an indication of period over period growth (decline). A store is typically included in the calculation of comparable sales when it has been open 12 months or more and it has not had a change in selling square footage of 20% or more. Closed stores are excluded from the comparable sales calculation if they have been closed for four consecutive days or more. Upon re-opening, the stores are included in the calculation. Therefore, comparable sales results for 2020 exclude the closure period of stores that were closed for four consecutive days or more as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, stores are excluded if total selling square footage in the center changes by 20% or more through the opening or closing of a second store. The percentage change in comparable sales is calculated on a comparable calendar period as opposed to a fiscal basis. Comparable sales attributable to our Canadian stores are calculated on a constant currency basis.
For 2020, net sales increased $1.029 billion to $6.434 billion. In the stores and direct channels, sales were strong across all merchandise categories, driven by continued high demand for soaps and sanitizers combined with strong sales performance in home fragrance and body care. The direct channel, which remained open throughout 2020, grew sales by 109.1% to $2.003 billion. These increases were partially offset by a decrease as a result of the COVID-19-related store closures as our stores were closed for a significant amount of time, primarily in the first and second quarter of 2020. Additionally, net sales decreased $50 million as we no longer provided sourcing services to La Senza, a company we divested in fiscal 2018.
The increase in comparable sales was driven by increases in digital traffic, conversion and average unit retail, partially offset by a decline in store traffic.
Gross Profit
For 2020, our gross profit increased $709 million to $3.096 billion, and our gross profit rate (expressed as a percentage of net sales) increased to 48.1% from 44.2%. The gross profit increase was due to increased merchandise margin dollars related to the increase in net sales and the strong customer response to our merchandise assortment which allowed us to strategically pull back on promotional activity and marketing related offers, partially offset by higher expenses due to increased direct channel fulfillment and shipping costs. The gross profit rate increase was driven by an increase in the merchandise margin rate reflecting a meaningful pullback in promotional activity and buying and occupancy leverage on higher net sales.

35

Table of Contents
General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses
For 2020, our general, administrative and store operating expenses increased $145 million to $1.492 billion, and the rate decreased to 23.2% from 24.9%. General, administrative and store operating expenses increased due to increases in store selling expenses in connection with the increase in net sales and to support COVID-19 guidelines, and severance and related costs associated with headcount reductions totaling $30 million. The general, administrative and store operating expense rate decreased driven by leverage on higher net sales.
Other Income (Loss) and Expenses
Interest Expense
The following table provides the average daily borrowings and average borrowing rates for 2020 and 2019:

-------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2020 2019
Average daily borrowings (in millions) $ 6,317 $ 5,568
Average borrowing rate 6.8 % 6.7 %

For 2020, our interest expense increased $62 million to $432 million due to both higher average daily borrowings and average borrowing rate.
Other Loss
For 2020, our other loss of $50 million, consisting primarily of a $53 million pre-tax loss associated with the early extinguishment of outstanding notes. For 2019, our other loss was $62 million, consisting primarily of a $40 million pre-tax loss associated with the early extinguishment of outstanding notes and a $37 million charge to increase reserves related to ongoing contingent obligations for the La Senza business, partially offset by interest income received on invested cash.
Provision for Income Taxes
For 2020, our effective tax rate was 22.9% compared to 24.3% in 2019. The 2020 rate was lower than our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate primarily due to the resolution of certain tax matters, which resulted in a $50 million tax benefit. The 2019 rate was lower than our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate primarily due to the resolution of certain tax matters.
Results of Operations—Fourth Quarter of 2020 Compared to Fourth Quarter of 2019
For the fourth quarter of 2020, operating income increased $257 million to $870 million, and the operating income rate increased to 32.0% from 27.5%. The drivers of the operating income results are discussed in the following sections.
Net Sales
The following table provides net sales for the fourth quarter of 2020 in comparison to the fourth quarter of 2019:

------------------------ ------------- ----- ---- --- -------- ----- ---- - ---- -
 2020 2019 % Change
 (in millions)
Stores - U.S. and Canada $ 1,903 $ 1,744 9.1 %
Direct - U.S. and Canada 750 431 74.0 %
International (a) 66 56 16.4 %
Total Net Sales $ 2,719 $ 2,231 21.8 %

________________
(a)Results include royalties associated with franchised store and wholesale sales.

The following table provides a reconciliation of net sales for the fourth quarter of 2019 to the fourth quarter of 2020:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -----
 (in millions)
2019 Net Sales $ 2,231
Comparable Store Sales 154
Sales Associated with New, Closed and Non-comparable Remodeled Stores, Net 4
Direct Channels 319
International Wholesale, Royalty and Other 9
Foreign Currency Translation 2
2020 Net Sales $ 2,719

36

Table of Contents

The following table compares fourth quarter of 2020 comparable sales to fourth quarter of 2019:

---------------------------------------- ---- - ---- -- -
 2020 2019
Comparable Sales (Stores and Direct) (a) 22 % 10 %
Comparable Store Sales (a) 9 % 5 %

 ________________
(a)The percentage change in comparable sales represents direct and comparable store sales. The percentage change in comparable store sales represents the change in sales at comparable stores only and excludes the change in sales from our direct channels. The change in comparable sales provides an indication of period over period growth (decline). A store is typically included in the calculation of comparable sales when it has been open 12 months or more and it has not had a change in selling square footage of 20% or more. Closed stores are excluded from the comparable sales calculation if they have been closed for four consecutive days or more. Upon re-opening, the stores are included in the calculation. Therefore, comparable sales results for 2020 exclude the closure period of stores that were closed for four consecutive days or more as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, stores are excluded if total selling square footage in the center changes by 20% or more through the opening or closing of a second store. The percentage change in comparable sales is calculated on a comparable calendar period as opposed to a fiscal basis. Comparable sales attributable to our Canadian stores are calculated on a constant currency basis.
For the fourth quarter of 2020, net sales increased $488 million to $2.719 billion. We achieved growth in all merchandise categories with two-thirds of our dollar growth coming from our home fragrance and body care categories, and one-third of the growth coming from soaps and sanitizers. In the direct channel, fourth quarter sales increased by 74.0%, or $319 million. Traffic in the stores channel was limited during the Holiday time period by capacity constraints in stores on high volume days.
The increase in comparable sales was driven by increases in digital traffic, conversion and average unit retail, partially offset by a decline in store traffic, which was particularly constrained on high volume Holiday days.
Gross Profit
For the fourth quarter of 2020, our gross profit increased $351 million to $1.407 billion, and our gross profit rate (expressed as a percentage of net sales) increased to 51.7% from 47.3%. The gross profit increase was due to increased merchandise margin dollars related to the increase in net sales and the strong customer response to our merchandise assortment which allowed us to strategically pull back on promotional activity and marketing related offers. This was partially offset by higher expenses due to increased direct channel fulfillment and shipping costs. The gross profit rate increase was driven by an increase in the merchandise margin rate reflecting a meaningful pullback in promotional activity and buying and occupancy leverage on higher net sales.
General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses
For the fourth quarter of 2020, our general, administrative and store operating expenses increased $94 million to $537 million, and the rate decreased to 19.8% from 19.9%. General, administrative and store operating expenses increased due to an increase in store selling expenses related to the increase in net sales and to support COVID-19 guidelines, and an increase in incentive compensation payouts as a result of Company performance. The general, administrative and store operating expense rate decreased driven by leverage on higher net sales.
Other Income (Loss) and Expenses
Interest Expense
The following table provides the average daily borrowings and average borrowing rates for the fourth quarter of 2020 and 2019:

-------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2020 2019
Average daily borrowings (in millions) $ 6,449 $ 5,459
Average borrowing rate 7.2 % 6.7 %

For the fourth quarter of 2020, our interest expense increased $26 million to $116 million due to both higher average daily borrowings and average borrowing rate.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the fourth quarter of 2020, our effective tax rate was 25.9% compared to 25.4% in 2019. The 2020 rate is generally consistent with our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate. The 2019 rate was lower than our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate primarily due to the resolution of certain tax matters.

37

Table of Contents
FINANCIAL CONDITION
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity, or access to cash, is an important factor in determining our financial stability. We are committed to maintaining adequate liquidity. Cash generated from our operating activities provides the primary resources to support current operations, growth initiatives, seasonal funding requirements, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends and our share repurchases. Our cash provided from operations is impacted by our net income and working capital changes. Our net income is impacted by, among other things, sales volume, seasonal sales patterns, success of new product introductions, profit margins and income taxes. Historically, sales are higher during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. Generally, our need for working capital peaks during the summer and fall months as inventory builds in anticipation of the holiday period. Our cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries were $81 million as of January 29, 2022.
We believe that our available short-term and long-term capital resources are sufficient to fund foreseeable requirements.
Working Capital and Capitalization
The following table provides a summary of our working capital position and capitalization as of January 29, 2022 and January 30, 2021:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ----- --------------- ----- - -----
 January 29,2022 January 30,2021
 (in millions)
Working Capital, Net of Assets and Liabilities from Discontinued Operations (a) $ 1,719 $ 3,012
Capitalization:
Long-term Debt 4,854 6,366
Shareholders’ Equity (Deficit) (1,518) (662)
Total Capitalization $ 3,336 $ 5,704
Amounts Available Under the ABL Facility (b) $ 479 $ —

 ________________
(a)The balance as of January 30, 2021 excludes the carrying value of assets and liabilities reported as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(b)As of January 29, 2022, our borrowing base was $495 million and we had outstanding letters of credit, which reduce our availability under the ABL Facility, of $16 million. As of January 30, 2021 we were unable to draw upon the ABL Facility as our consolidated cash balance exceeded $350 million.
Debt Leverage Ratio
Our debt leverage ratio is defined as adjusted debt, which includes our long-term debt and total operating lease liabilities, divided by adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent ("EBITDAR"). Adjusted EBITDAR is calculated as adjusted operating income (a non-GAAP measure that is reconciled under the heading "Adjusted Financial Information from Continuing Operations," in this Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), which excludes interest and taxes, before depreciation, amortization and lease costs. Our debt leverage ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure which we believe is useful to analyze our capital structure. Our debt leverage ratio calculation may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. Our debt leverage ratio should be evaluated in addition to, and not considered a substitute for, other GAAP financial measures.

38

Table of Contents
The following table provides our debt leverage ratio as of, and for the years ended, January 29, 2022 and January 30, 2021:

--------------------------------- --------------------- ----- --------------- ----- - -----
 January 29,2022 January 30,2021
 (dollars in millions)
Long-term Debt $ 4,854 $ 6,366
Total Operating Lease Liabilities 1,159 1,115
Adjusted Debt $ 6,013 $ 7,481

Adjusted Operating Income $ 2,019 $ 1,634
Depreciation and Amortization 205 195
Total Lease Costs 358 311
Adjusted EBITDAR $ 2,582 $ 2,140
Debt Leverage Ratio 2.33 3.50

Cash Flow
The cash flows related to discontinued operations have not been segregated in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Accordingly, the cash flows discussed below include the results of continuing and discontinued operations.
The following table provides a summary of our cash flow activity for the fiscal years ended January 29, 2022, January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 2021 2020 2019
 (in millions)
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, Beginning of Year $ 3,933 $ 1,499 $ 1,413
Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities 1,492 2,039 1,236
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (259) (219) (480)
Net Cash Flows Provided by (Used for) Financing Activities (3,188) 610 (666)
Effects of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 1 4 (4)
Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash (1,954) 2,434 86
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, End of Year $ 1,979 $ 3,933 $ 1,499

Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2021 was $1.492 billion, including net income of $1.333 billion. Net income included depreciation of $363 million, loss on extinguishment of debt of $195 million, share-based compensation expense of $46 million, and deferred income tax expense of $45 million. Other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital. The most significant item in working capital was a decrease in operating cash flow of $177 million associated with the increase in Inventories.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2020 was $2.039 billion, including net income of $844 million. Net income included depreciation of $521 million, Victoria's Secret store and lease asset impairment charges of $254 million, gain from formation of the Victoria's Secret U.K. and Ireland joint venture of $54 million, loss on extinguishment of debt of $53 million, share-based compensation expense of $50 million, non-cash gain from Victoria's Secret Hong Kong store closure and lease termination of $39 million and deferred income tax expense of $33 million. Other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital. The most significant item in working capital was an increase in operating cash flow of $379 million associated with the increase in Accounts Payables, Accrued Expenses and Other and Other Assets and Liabilities.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 was $1.236 billion, including net loss of $366 million. Net loss included depreciation of $588 million, Victoria's Secret goodwill impairment charges of $720 million, Victoria's Secret store and lease asset impairment charges of $263 million, share-based compensation expense of $87 million, loss on extinguishment of debt of $40 million, La Senza charges of $37 million and deferred income tax benefits of $29 million. Other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital. The most significant item in working capital was a decrease in operating cash flow of $93 million associated with the decrease in Accounts Payables, Accrued Expenses and Other.

39

Table of Contents
Investing Activities
Net cash used for investing activities in 2021 was $259 million consisting primarily of $270 million of capital expenditures. Capital expenditures related to our continuing operations totaled $205 million, approximately 60% of which related to real estate investments with the remaining investment principally in technology and fulfillment center capabilities. Capital expenditures related to discontinued operations were $66 million.
Net cash used for investing activities in 2020 was $219 million consisting primarily of $228 million of capital expenditures. The capital expenditures were primarily related to spending on technology and logistics to support our and the Victoria's Secret digital businesses and other retail capabilities. Capital expenditures of approximately $80 million related to the opening of new stores or the remodeling and improving of existing stores, primarily for Bath & Body Works.
Net cash used for investing activities in 2019 was $480 million consisting primarily of $458 million of capital expenditures. The capital expenditures included $286 million for opening new stores and remodeling and improving existing stores. Remaining capital expenditures were primarily related to spending on technology and logistics to support our and the Victoria's Secret digital businesses and other retail capabilities.
We will continue to invest in our Bath & Body Works business to support growth in new off-mall stores and remodels, direct channel technology and fulfillment capabilities, as well as standing up a new information technology function. We are estimating 2022 capital expenditures to be approximately $400 million, with about 40% relating to real estate investments. The remaining capital expenditures forecast is principally related to our information technology investments and the new direct fulfillment center.
Financing Activities
Net cash used for financing activities in 2021 was $3.188 billion primarily consisting of $1.964 billion in repurchases of our common stock, $1.716 billion in payments for the early extinguishment of outstanding notes, transfers and payments to Victoria's Secret & Co. related to the spin-off of $376 million, dividend payments of $0.45 per share, or $120 million, and $59 million of tax payments related to share-based awards. These uses were partially offset by proceeds of $976 million from the Victoria's Secret & Co. spin-off and proceeds from stock option exercises of $83 million.
Net cash provided by financing activities in 2020 was $610 million consisting primarily of net proceeds of $2.218 billion from the issuance of new notes, partially offset by $1.307 billion in payments for the early extinguishment of outstanding notes, $155 million of net repayments under foreign borrowing facilities to support the Victoria's Secret business ("Victoria's Secret Foreign Facilities"), dividend payments of $0.30 per share, or $83 million, and payments of finance lease obligations of $53 million. We also borrowed and repaid $950 million under our Credit Agreement (as defined below) during 2020.
Net cash used for financing activities in 2019 was $666 million consisting primarily of $799 million in payments for the early extinguishment of outstanding notes, dividend payments of $1.20 per share, or $332 million, and tax payments related to share-based awards of $13 million. These were partially offset by the net proceeds of $486 million from the issuance of the 2029 Notes (as defined below) and $5 million of net new borrowings under the Victoria's Secret Foreign Facilities.
On February 2, 2022, we announced that our Board authorized a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program (the "February 2022 Program"). Also on February 2, 2022, as part of the February 2022 Program, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement ("ASR") under which we will repurchase $1 billion of our own outstanding common stock. On February 4, 2022, we delivered $1 billion to the ASR bank, and the bank delivered approximately 14 million shares of our common stock to us (the "Initial Shares"). Pursuant to the terms of the ASR, the Initial Shares represented 80% of the number of shares determined by dividing our $1 billion payment by the closing price of our common stock on February 2, 2022. The aggregate number of shares of common stock to be delivered under the ASR will be based generally upon a discount to the Rule 10b-18 volume-weighted average price at which the shares of common stock trade during the regular trading sessions on the NYSE during the term of repurchase period. At final settlement, the ASR bank may be obligated to deliver additional shares of our common stock to us or we may be obligated to make delivery of shares of our common stock or a cash payment to the ASR bank, at our option. We expect final settlement of the share repurchases under the ASR to occur during the second quarter of 2022.
Also in February 2022, our Board increased the annual dividend to $0.80 per share and declared the quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share, paid on March 4, 2022, to stockholders of record as of February 18, 2022.
Common Stock Share Repurchases
Our Board will determine share repurchase authorizations, giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity, the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements as well as financial and other conditions existing at the time. We use cash flow generated from operating and financing activities to fund our share repurchase programs. The timing and amount of any repurchases will be made at our discretion, taking into account a number of factors, including market conditions.

40

Table of Contents
In March 2021, our Board authorized a $500 million share repurchase plan (the "March 2021 Plan"), which replaced the $79 million remaining under a March 2018 repurchase program. Pursuant to the Board's authorization, we entered into a Rule 10b5-1 purchase plan to effectuate share repurchases for the first $250 million. In May 2021, we initiated a second $250 million Rule 10b5-1 purchase plan to effectuate the remaining share repurchases under the March 2021 Plan.
In July 2021, our Board authorized a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program (the "July 2021 Program"), which replaced the $36 million remaining under the March 2021 Plan. Under the authorization of this program, in July 2021 we entered into a stock repurchase agreement with our former CEO and certain of his affiliated entities pursuant to which we repurchased 10 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $730 million.
We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in 2019 or 2020. We repurchased the following shares of our common stock during 2021:

------------------ ---------------- ------ ----------------- ------ ----------------- ------------------- ----- --- ----- - -----
Repurchase Program AmountAuthorized SharesRepurchased AmountRepurchased Average Stock Price
 (in millions) (in thousands) (in millions)
March 2021 (a) $ 500 6,996 $ 464 $ 66.30
July 2021 (a) 1,500 10,000 730 73.01
July 2021 (b) 11,234 770 68.53
 _______________
(a)Reflects repurchases of L Brands, Inc. common stock prior to the August 2, 2021 spin-off of Victoria's Secret & Co.
(b)Reflects repurchases of Bath & Body Works, Inc. common stock subsequent to the August 2, 2021 spin-off of Victoria's Secret & Co.
On February 2, 2022, we announced that our Board authorized a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program. Also on February 2, 2022, as part of the February 2022 Program, we entered into an ASR under which we will repurchase $1 billion of our outstanding common stock. For additional information, refer to discussion under the heading "Cash Flow," in this Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Additionally, subsequent to January 29, 2022, we repurchased an additional 1.9 million shares of our common stock for $92 million under the February 2022 Program.
Common Stock Retirement
In accordance with our Board's resolution, shares of common stock repurchased under the July 2021 Program were to be retired and cancelled upon repurchase. As a result, we retired the 21 million shares repurchased under the July 2021 Program during 2021, which resulted in reductions of $11 million in the par value of Common Stock, $69 million in Paid-in Capital and $1.420 billion in Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit).
Dividend Policy and Procedures
Our Board will determine future dividends after giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity, the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements, as well as financial and other conditions existing at the time. We use cash flow generated from operating and financing activities to fund our dividends.
Our Board suspended our quarterly cash dividend beginning in the second quarter of 2020 as a proactive measure to strengthen our financial flexibility and manage through the COVID-19 pandemic. In March 2021, our Board reinstated our annual dividend at $0.60 per share, beginning with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2021.
In February 2022, our Board increased the annual dividend to $0.80 per share and declared the quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share, paid on March 4, 2022, to stockholders of record as of February 18, 2022.

41

Table of Contents
Under the authority and declaration of our Board, we paid the following dividends during 2021, 2020 and 2019:

-------------- ------------------ ---- ------------- -- - ---
 Ordinary Dividends Total Paid
 (per share) (in millions)
 2021
First Quarter $ — $ —
Second Quarter 0.15 42
Third Quarter 0.15 39
Fourth Quarter 0.15 39
2021 Total $ 0.45 $ 120
 2020
First Quarter $ 0.30 $ 83
Second Quarter — —
Third Quarter — —
Fourth Quarter — —
2020 Total $ 0.30 $ 83
 2019
First Quarter $ 0.30 $ 83
Second Quarter 0.30 83
Third Quarter 0.30 83
Fourth Quarter 0.30 83
2019 Total $ 1.20 $ 332

42

Table of Contents
Long-term Debt and Borrowing Facilities
The following table provides our outstanding debt balance, net of unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts, as of January 29, 2022 and January 30, 2021:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ----- --------------- --- - -----
 January 29,2022 January 30,2021
 (in millions)
Senior Secured Debt with Subsidiary Guarantee
$750 million, 6.875% Fixed Interest Rate Secured Notes due July 2025 ("2025 Secured Notes") $ — $ 740
Senior Debt with Subsidiary Guarantee

$1 billion, 5.625% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due February 2022 (“2022 Notes”) — 284
$500 million, 5.625% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due October 2023 (“2023 Notes”) — 319
$320 million, 9.375% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due July 2025 ("2025 Notes") 316 493
$297 million, 6.694% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due January 2027 ("2027 Notes") 281 278
$500 million, 5.25% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due February 2028 (“2028 Notes”) 497 497
$500 million, 7.50% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due June 2029 ("2029 Notes") 489 488
$1 billion, 6.625% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due October 2030 ("2030 Notes") 990 988
$1 billion, 6.875% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due November 2035 (“2035 Notes”) 992 991
$700 million, 6.75% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due July 2036 (“2036 Notes”) 694 694
Total Senior Debt with Subsidiary Guarantee $ 4,259 $ 5,032
Senior Debt
$350 million, 6.95% Fixed Interest Rate Debentures due March 2033 (“2033 Notes”) $ 349 $ 348
$247 million, 7.60% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due July 2037 (“2037 Notes”) 246 246
Total Senior Debt $ 595 $ 594
Total Long-term Debt $ 4,854 $ 6,366

Issuance of Notes
In September 2020, we issued $1 billion of 6.625% senior notes due October 2030. The obligation to pay principal and interest on these notes is jointly and severally guaranteed on a full and unconditional basis by us and certain of our 100% owned subsidiaries. The proceeds from the issuance were $988 million, which were net of issuance costs of $12 million. The issuance costs are being amortized through the maturity date and are included within Long-term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In June 2020, we issued $750 million of 6.875% senior secured notes due July 2025. The obligation to pay principal and interest on these notes was jointly and severally guaranteed on a full and unconditional basis by us and certain of our 100% owned subsidiaries. The proceeds from the issuance were $738 million, which were net of issuance costs of $12 million.
In June 2020, we also issued $500 million of 9.375% senior notes due in July 2025. The obligation to pay principal and interest on these notes is jointly and severally guaranteed on a full and unconditional basis by us and certain of our 100% owned subsidiaries. The proceeds from the issuance were $492 million, which were net of issuance costs of $8 million. The issuance costs are being amortized through the maturity date and are included within Long-term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Repurchases of Notes
In September 2021, we completed tender offers to purchase $270 million of our outstanding 2023 Notes and $180 million of our outstanding 2025 Notes for an aggregate purchase price of $532 million. Additionally, in October 2021, we redeemed the remaining $50 million of our outstanding 2023 Notes for $54 million. We recognized a pre-tax loss related to this extinguishment of debt of $89 million (after-tax loss of $68 million), which includes the write-off of unamortized issuance costs. This loss is included in Other Loss in the 2021 Consolidated Statement of Income.
In April 2021, we redeemed the remaining $285 million of our outstanding 2022 Notes and the $750 million of our outstanding 2025 Secured Notes. We recognized a pre-tax loss related to this extinguishment of debt of $105 million (after-tax loss of $80 million), which includes the write-off of unamortized issuance costs. This loss is included in Other Loss in the 2021 Consolidated Statement of Income.

43

Table of Contents
In October 2020, we completed tender offers to purchase $576 million of our outstanding 2022 Notes, $180 million of our outstanding 2023 Notes and $53 million of our outstanding 2037 Notes for $844 million. We used the proceeds from the 2030 Notes to fund the purchase price of the tender offers. Additionally, utilizing cash on hand, we redeemed the remaining $450 million of our outstanding 6.625% Fixed Interest Rates Notes due April 2021 (the "2021 Notes") for $463 million. We recognized a pre-tax loss related to this extinguishment of debt of $53 million (after-tax loss of $40 million), which includes the write-off of unamortized issuance costs. This loss is included in Other Loss in the 2020 Consolidated Statement of Income.
In June 2019, we completed tender offers to purchase $212 million of our outstanding 7.000% Fixed Interest Rates Notes due May 2020 (the "2020 Notes"), $330 million of our outstanding 2021 Notes and $96 million of our outstanding 2022 Notes for $669 million. We used the proceeds from the 2029 Notes, together with cash on hand, to fund the purchase price for the tender offers. Additionally, in July 2019, we redeemed the remaining $126 million of outstanding 2020 Notes for $130 million. We recognized a pre-tax loss on this extinguishment of debt of $40 million (after-tax loss of $30 million), which includes the write-off of unamortized issuance costs. This loss is included in Other Loss in the 2019 Consolidated Statement of Loss.
Asset-backed Revolving Credit Facility
We and certain of our 100% owned subsidiaries guarantee and pledge collateral to secure a revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"). During the first quarter of 2020, in an abundance of caution and as a proactive measure in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we elected to borrow $950 million under our Credit Agreement. In April 2020, we entered into an amendment and restatement of the Credit Agreement to convert our credit facility into an ABL Facility, which allows borrowings and letters of credit in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars. The $950 million borrowing was repaid during the first quarter of 2020 upon completion of the April amendment.
In August 2021, we entered into an amendment and restatement (the "Amendment") of the Credit Agreement. The Amendment reduced the aggregate commitments under the ABL Facility to $750 million, reduced the interest rates on outstanding borrowings by 50 basis points, removed the requirement to prepay outstanding amounts under the ABL Facility should our consolidated cash balance exceed $350 million, extended the expiration date from August 2024 to August 2026 and released Victoria's Secret & Co. subsidiaries as guarantors, among other things.
Availability under the ABL Facility is the lesser of (i) the borrowing base, determined primarily based on our eligible U.S. and Canadian credit card receivables, accounts receivable, inventory and eligible real property, or (ii) the aggregate commitment. If at any time, the outstanding amount under the ABL Facility exceeds the lesser of (i) the borrowing base and (ii) the aggregate commitment, we are required to repay the outstanding amounts under the ABL Facility to the extent of such excess. As of January 29, 2022, our borrowing base was $495 million and we had no borrowings outstanding under the ABL Facility.
The ABL Facility supports our letter of credit program. We had $16 million of outstanding letters of credit as of January 29, 2022 that reduced our availability under the ABL Facility. As of January 29, 2022, our availability under the ABL Facility was $479 million.
As of January 29, 2022, the ABL Facility fees related to committed and unutilized amounts were 0.25% per annum, and the fees related to outstanding letters of credit were 1.25% per annum. In addition, the interest rate on outstanding U.S. dollar borrowings was LIBOR plus 1.25% per annum. The interest rate on outstanding Canadian dollar-denominated borrowings was Canadian Dollar Offered Rate plus 1.25% per annum.
The ABL Facility requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 during an event of default or any period commencing on any day when specified excess availability is less than the greater of (1) $70 million or (2) 10% of the maximum borrowing amount. As of January 29, 2022, we were not required to maintain this ratio.
Credit Ratings
The following table provides our credit ratings as of January 29, 2022:

----------------------------------------------- -------- --------
 Moody’s S&P
Corporate Ba2 BB
Senior Unsecured Debt with Subsidiary Guarantee Ba2 BB
Senior Unsecured Debt B1 B+
Outlook Positive Positive

Guarantor Summarized Financial Information
Certain of our subsidiaries, which are listed on Exhibit 22 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, have guaranteed our obligations under the 2025 Notes, 2027 Notes, 2028 Notes, 2029 Notes, 2030 Notes, 2035 Notes and 2036 Notes (collectively, the "Notes"). As a result of the Separation and Amendment to our ABL Facility, both of which were completed on August 2, 2021, certain of our current and former subsidiaries were released as guarantors under the Notes.

44

Table of Contents
The Notes have been issued by Bath & Body Works, Inc. (the “Parent Company”). The Notes are its senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future senior unsecured obligations, are senior to any of our future subordinated indebtedness, are effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness that is secured by a lien and are structurally subordinated to all existing and future obligations of each of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes.
The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, including each subsidiary that also guarantees our obligations under certain of our senior secured credit facilities (such guarantees, the “Guarantees”; and, such guaranteeing subsidiaries, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”). The Guarantees of the Subsidiary Guarantors are subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain customary conditions. Each Guarantee is limited, by its terms, to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the applicable Subsidiary Guarantor subject to avoidance under applicable fraudulent conveyance provisions of U.S. and non-U.S. law.
The following tables set forth summarized financial information for the Parent Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the Parent Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and (ii) investments in and equity in the earnings of non-Guarantor subsidiaries. Summarized financial information for periods prior to the Separation and Amendment to our ABL Facility on August 2, 2021 reflect the Subsidiary Guarantors in effect for those periods.

-------------------------- --------------- -----
SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEET January 29,2022
 (in millions)
ASSETS
Current Assets (a) $ 3,365
Noncurrent Assets 2,481

LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities (b) $ 2,956
Noncurrent Liabilities (c) 6,155

 _______________
(a)Includes amounts due from non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $530 million as of January 29, 2022.
(b)Includes amounts due to non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $1.927 billion as of January 29, 2022.
(c)Includes amounts due to non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $5 million as of January 29, 2022.

------------------------------ ------------- ------
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 2021
 (in millions)
Net Sales (a) $ 10,699
Gross Profit 4,907
Operating Income 2,307
Income Before Income Taxes 1,689
Net Income (b) 1,274

 _______________
(a)Includes net sales of $199 million to non-Guarantor subsidiaries.
(b)Includes net loss of $74 million related to transactions with non-Guarantor subsidiaries.

45

Table of Contents
Contingent Liabilities and Contractual Obligations
The following table provides our contractual obligations, aggregated by type, including the maturity profile as of January 29, 2022:

---------------------------- ---------------------- ------ -------------- --- -------- ----- -------- --------------- ----- ----- --- ----- -- - ----- - --
 Payments Due by Period
 Total LessThan 1Year 1-3Years 4-5Years Morethan 5Years Other
 (in millions)
Long-term Debt (a) $ 8,386 $ 339 $ 678 $ 1,250 $ 6,119 $ —
Future Lease Obligations (b) 1,466 242 443 375 406 —
Purchase Obligations (c) 747 582 91 41 33 —
Other Liabilities (d) 185 105 23 17 — 40
Total $ 10,784 $ 1,268 $ 1,235 $ 1,683 $ 6,558 $ 40

________________
(a)Long-term debt obligations relate to our principal and interest payments for outstanding notes and debentures. Interest payments have been estimated based on the coupon rate for fixed rate obligations. Interest obligations exclude amounts which have been accrued through January 29, 2022. For additional information, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(b)Future lease obligations primarily represent minimum payments due under store lease agreements. For additional information, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(c)Purchase obligations primarily include purchase orders for merchandise inventory and other agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transactions.
(d)Other liabilities includes future estimated payments associated with unrecognized tax benefits. The “Less Than 1 Year” category includes $104 million of these tax items because it is reasonably possible that the amounts could change in the next 12 months due to audit settlements or resolution of uncertainties. The remaining portion totaling $40 million is included in the “Other” category as it is not reasonably possible that the amounts could change in the next 12 months. In addition, we have a remaining liability of $40 million related to the deemed repatriation tax on our undistributed foreign earnings resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The tax liability will be paid over the next three years. For additional information, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Lease Guarantees
In connection with the spin-off of Victoria's Secret & Co., we have remaining contingent obligations of approximately $265 million as of January 29, 2022 related to lease payments under the current terms of noncancelable leases, primarily related to office space, expiring at various dates through 2037. In addition, in connection with the sale of La Senza in the fourth quarter of 2018, we have remaining contingent obligations of approximately $25 million as of January 29, 2022 related to lease payments under the current terms of noncancelable leases expiring at various dates through 2028. These obligations include minimum rent and additional payments covering taxes, common area costs and certain other expenses and relate to leases that commenced prior to the disposition of these businesses. Our reserves related to these obligations were not significant as of January 29, 2022.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
We did not adopt any new accounting standards during 2021 that had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, as of March 18, 2022, there are no new accounting standards not yet adopted that are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to adopt accounting policies related to estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, as well as the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its accounting policies, estimates and judgments, including those related to inventories, valuation of long-lived store assets, claims and contingencies, income taxes and revenue recognition. Management bases our estimates and judgments on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may

46

Table of Contents
differ from these estimates. Management has discussed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and believes the following assumptions and estimates are most significant to reporting our results of operations and financial position.
Inventories
Inventories are principally valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, on an average cost basis.
We record valuation adjustments to our inventories if the cost of inventory on hand exceeds the amount we expect to realize from the ultimate sale or disposal of the inventory. These estimates are based on management’s judgment regarding future demand and market conditions and analysis of historical experience. If actual demand or market conditions are different than those projected by management, future period merchandise margin rates may be unfavorably or favorably affected by adjustments to these estimates.
We also record inventory loss adjustments for estimated physical inventory losses that have occurred since the date of the last physical inventory. These estimates are based on management’s analysis of historical results and operating trends.
Management believes that the assumptions used in these estimates are reasonable and appropriate. A 10% increase or decrease in the inventory valuation adjustment would have impacted net income from continuing operations by approximately $2 million for 2021. A 10% increase or decrease in the estimated physical inventory loss adjustment would have impacted net income from continuing operations by approximately $1 million for 2021.
Valuation of Long-lived Store Assets
Long-lived store assets, which include leasehold improvements, store related assets and operating lease assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Store assets are grouped at the lowest level for which they are largely independent of other assets or asset groups. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset group are less than the carrying value, we recognize a loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair value, determined by the estimated discounted future cash flows of the asset group. For operating lease assets, we determine the fair value of the assets by comparing the contractual rent payments to estimated market rental rates. An individual asset within an asset group is not impaired below its estimated fair value. The fair value of long-lived store assets are determined using Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy.
When a decision has been made to dispose of property and equipment prior to the end of the previously estimated useful life, depreciation estimates are revised to reflect the use of the asset over the shortened estimated useful life.
Claims and Contingencies
We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, taxes, insurance, regulatory and other matters arising out of the normal course of business. Our determination of the treatment of claims and contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements is based on management’s view of the expected outcome of the applicable claim or contingency. We consult with legal counsel on matters related to litigation and seek input from both internal and external experts with respect to matters in the ordinary course of business. We accrue a liability if the likelihood of an adverse outcome is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome is only reasonably possible (as opposed to probable) or if an estimate is not reasonably determinable, disclosure of a material claim or contingency is disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Under this method, taxes currently payable or refundable are accrued, and deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for realizable operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted income tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in income tax rates is recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized.
Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities. In determining our provision for income taxes, we consider permanent differences between book and tax income and statutory income tax rates. Our effective income tax rate is affected by items including changes in tax law, the tax jurisdiction of new stores or business ventures and the level of earnings.
We follow the authoritative guidance included in ASC 740, Income Taxes, which contains a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals

47

Table of Contents
or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and for which actual outcomes may differ from forecasted outcomes. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense.
Our income tax returns, like those of most companies, are periodically audited by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by the various tax authorities. A number of years may elapse before a particular matter for which we have established an accrual is audited and fully resolved or clarified. We adjust our tax contingencies accrual and income tax provision in the period in which matters are effectively settled with tax authorities at amounts different from our established accrual, when the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position or when more information becomes available.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue based on the amount we expect to receive when control of the goods or services is transferred to our customer. We recognize sales upon customer receipt of merchandise, which for direct channel revenues reflect an estimate of shipments that have not yet been received by our customer based on shipping terms and historical delivery times. Our shipping and handling revenues are included in Net Sales with the related costs included in Costs of Goods Sold, Buying and Occupancy in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). We also provide a reserve for projected merchandise returns based on historical experience. Net Sales exclude sales and other similar taxes collected from customers.
We offer a loyalty program that allows customers to earn points based on purchasing activity. As customers accumulate points and reach point thresholds, they can use the points to purchase merchandise in stores or online. We allocate revenue to points earned on qualifying purchases and defer recognition until the points are redeemed. The amount of revenue deferred is based on the relative stand-alone selling price method, which includes an estimate for points not expected to be redeemed based on historical experience.
We sell gift cards with no expiration dates to customers. We do not charge administrative fees on unused gift cards. We recognize revenue from gift cards when they are redeemed by the customer. In addition, we recognize revenue on unredeemed gift cards where the likelihood of the gift card being redeemed is remote and there is no legal obligation to remit the unredeemed gift cards to relevant jurisdictions (gift card breakage). Gift card breakage revenue is recognized in proportion, and over the same period, as actual gift card redemptions. We determine the gift card breakage rate based on historical redemption patterns. Gift card breakage is included in Net Sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss).
We also recognize revenues associated with franchise, license, wholesale and sourcing arrangements. Revenue recognized under franchise and license arrangements generally consists of royalties earned and recognized upon sale of merchandise by franchise and license partners to retail customers. Revenue is generally recognized under wholesale and sourcing arrangements at the time the title passes to the partner.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[see Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and which we believe helped mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our results. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[see Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[see Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[see Note 8]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc.

[see Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc.

[Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37

[Exhibit 22 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 22]

[" in this Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), which excludes interest and taxes, before depreciation, amortization and lease costs. Our debt leverage ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure which we believe is useful to analyze our capital structure. Our debt leverage ratio calculation may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. Our debt leverage ratio should be evaluated in addition to, and not considered a substitute for, other GAAP financial measures.

38

Table of Contents
The following table provides our debt leverage ratio as of, and for the years ended, January 29, 2022 and January 30, 2021:

--------------------------------- --------------------- ----- --------------- ----- - -----
 January 29,2022 January 30,2021
 (dollars in millions)
Long-term Debt $ 4,854 $ 6,366
Total Operating Lease Liabilities 1,159 1,115
Adjusted Debt $ 6,013 $ 7,481

Adjusted Operating Income $ 2,019 $ 1,634
Depreciation and Amortization 205 195
Total Lease Costs 358 311
Adjusted EBITDAR $ 2,582 $ 2,140
Debt Leverage Ratio 2.33 3.50

Cash Flow
The cash flows related to discontinued operations have not been segregated in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Accordingly, the cash flows discussed below include the results of continuing and discontinued operations.
The following table provides a summary of our cash flow activity for the fiscal years ended January 29, 2022, January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 2021 2020 2019
 (in millions)
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, Beginning of Year $ 3,933 $ 1,499 $ 1,413
Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities 1,492 2,039 1,236
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (259) (219) (480)
Net Cash Flows Provided by (Used for) Financing Activities (3,188) 610 (666)
Effects of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash 1 4 (4)
Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash (1,954) 2,434 86
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash, End of Year $ 1,979 $ 3,933 $ 1,499

Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2021 was $1.492 billion, including net income of $1.333 billion. Net income included depreciation of $363 million, loss on extinguishment of debt of $195 million, share-based compensation expense of $46 million, and deferred income tax expense of $45 million. Other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital. The most significant item in working capital was a decrease in operating cash flow of $177 million associated with the increase in Inventories.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2020 was $2.039 billion, including net income of $844 million. Net income included depreciation of $521 million, Victoria']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

["), among others. Although we have put in place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our associates, subcontractors, vendors, licensees, franchisees and other third parties could take actions that violate these laws and regulations. Any violations of such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
It can be difficult to comply with sometimes conflicting regulations in local, national or foreign jurisdictions as well as new or changing regulations. Also, changes in such laws could make operating our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It may be difficult for us to

22

Table of Contents
oversee regulatory changes impacting our business, and our responses to changes in the law could be costly and may negatively impact our operations.
We may be adversely impacted by certain compliance or legal matters.
We, along with third parties we do business with, are subject to complex compliance and litigation risks. Actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, wage and hour, data privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. In addition, notwithstanding our adoption of CDC-recommended guidelines and preventative efforts to ensure the health and safety of our customers and associates, it is possible that our customers and associates may contract COVID-19 while at our stores or facilities, which could subject us to litigation. The cost of defending against these types of claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims, whether by settlement or adverse court decision, may harm our business. Further, potential claimants may be encouraged to bring suits based on a settlement from us or adverse court decisions against us. We cannot currently assess the likely outcome of such suits, but if the outcome were negative, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In addition, we may be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and stockholders, that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by changes in taxation, trade and other regulatory requirements.
We are subject to income tax in local, national and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
There is increased uncertainty with respect to tax policy and trade relations between the U.S. and other countries, including as a result of any executive action taken or legislative priorities set by the current U.S. presidential administration. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.
None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The following table provides the location, use and size of our Company-operated distribution, corporate and product development facilities as of January 29, 2022:

------------------- --------------------------------------------------- ------------------------
Location Use ApproximateSquareFootage
Columbus, Ohio area Office, distribution center and shipping facilities 3,928,000
Other North America Office and product development/design 69,000

We own five office, distribution center and shipping facilities located in the Columbus, Ohio area. These buildings comprise approximately 3.9 million square feet. We are also investing in a new 1.0 million square foot Company-operated leased direct channel fulfillment center in Columbus, Ohio which we expect to be operational in Fall 2022, and at full capacity in Fall 2023.
We lease various other office and product development/design locations in North America, primarily in New York.

23

Table of Contents
Third-party Operated Fulfillment and Distribution Centers
We utilize six permanent third-party operated direct channel fulfillment centers in North America, comprising approximately 3.2 million square feet, that allow us to reduce in transit times for our direct channel orders. We also utilize six third-party operated regional distribution centers in North America, comprising approximately 1.0 million square feet, that enable us to position inventory geographically closer to our stores.
Company-operated Stores
As of January 29, 2022, we operate 1,651 retail stores located in leased facilities throughout the U.S. A substantial portion of these lease commitments consists of store leases generally with an initial term of 10 years. These store leases expire at various dates between 2022 and 2034.
As of January 29, 2022, we also operate 104 retail stores located in leased facilities throughout the Canadian provinces. These lease commitments consist of store leases generally with initial terms of 5 to 10 years. These store leases expire at various dates between 2022 and 2031.
International Partner-operated Stores
As of January 29, 2022, our partners operate 338 retail stores in more than 35 countries.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
We are a defendant in a variety of lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. Actions filed against our Company from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, data privacy, securities and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any litigation, in the opinion of management, our current legal proceedings are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.
On May 19, 2020 and January 12, 2021, certain of our stockholders filed derivative lawsuits in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio (subsequently removed to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio) and the Delaware Court of Chancery, respectively, naming as defendants certain current and former directors and officers of ours and alleging, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty through asserted violations of law and failures to monitor workplace conduct (the "]:
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29

[").
In July 2021, we announced the global settlement resolving the Actions. The settlement resolves all derivative claims that have been or could have been asserted in the Actions or that involve in any way the allegations referred to in the Actions and releases all such claims against us and our past and present employees, officers and directors, among others. As part of the settlement, we have agreed to implement certain management and governance measures, including the maintenance of a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Council. Following the August 2, 2021 spin-off of Victoria’s Secret & Co., the settlement terms will apply to both us and Victoria’s Secret & Co. Each company has committed to invest $45 million over at least five years to fund the management and governance measures. The settlement is subject to approval of the United States District Court of the Southern District of Ohio.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.

Not applicable.

24

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 29, 2022, there were approximately 31,000 stockholders of record. However, including active associates who participate in our stock purchase plan, associates who own shares through our sponsored retirement plans and others holding shares in broker accounts under street names, we estimate the shareholder base to be approximately 177,000.
The following table provides our quarterly market prices and cash dividends per share for 2021 and 2020:

-------------- ---------------- ----- -------------------------- ----- - ----- ---- - ----
 Market Price (a) Cash Dividendper Share (b)
 High Low
 2021
Fourth quarter $ 82.00 $ 50.94 $ 0.15
Third quarter 72.56 58.28 0.15
Second quarter 65.47 49.73 0.15
First quarter 55.21 32.47 —
 2020
Fourth quarter $ 39.05 $ 26.02 $ —
Third quarter 28.63 19.23 —
Second quarter 21.55 8.11 —
First quarter 20.42 6.47 0.30
 _______________
(a)Market prices prior to August 3, 2021 have been adjusted to give effect to the Victoria']:
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17

['s Secret business are reported in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) for all periods presented. In addition, the related assets and liabilities are reported as Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued Operations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Unless otherwise noted, all amounts, percentages and discussions reflect only the results of operations and financial condition from our continuing operations.
Victoria’s Secret & Co. is providing technology services and systems to us under a TSA while we create independent system environments, which we believe will help to minimize dis-synergies. Over the next two to three years we expect future capital and expense related to standing up a separate information technology function for our Company.
Impacts of COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant public health concerns as well as economic disruption, uncertainty and volatility. Our operations and financial performance have been materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In the first quarter of 2020, all of our Company-operated stores were closed on March 17, 2020, but we were able to re-open the majority of our stores as of the end of the second quarter of 2020. Our direct business remained open for the duration of 2020. During 2020, we took prudent actions to manage expenses and to maintain our cash position and financial flexibility.
We adopted new operating models focused on safety in connection with the pandemic. We continue to remain focused on providing a safe store environment for our customers and associates, while also delivering an engaging shopping experience. We also remain focused on the safe operations of our corporate facilities and our distribution and fulfillment centers while maximizing our direct business. There remains the potential for COVID-related closures or operating restrictions, which could materially impact our operations and financial performance in future periods.
Executive and 2021 Overview
The transformation of our business that started in 2020 continued into 2021 with the successful separation of L Brands, Inc. into Bath & Body Works, Inc. and Victoria’s Secret & Co. as separate, standalone companies in August 2021. The Separation enables us to pursue growth strategies best suited to our customer base and strategic objectives, with a goal to return the highest value to our stockholders. We have a demonstrated record of consistent sales and operating income growth, as well as a proven ability to respond quickly to evolving customer tastes with a high-speed sourcing and logistics model. With high brand awareness and an increasingly loyal and growing customer base, we believe we are well positioned for continued growth in North America, as well as globally.
For 2021, sales were $7.882 billion, an increase of 22% compared to sales of $6.434 billion in 2020. Our gross profit increased $759 million to $3.855 billion driven by the increase in sales. Our gross profit rate increased to 48.9% from 48.1%, principally driven by sales leverage on our buying and occupancy expenses, partially offset by a decline in the merchandise margin rate. Increased inflationary costs amounted to approximately $175 million, most of which impacted gross margin. General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses were $1.846 billion for 2021, an increase of 24% compared to 2020, and the rate increased by 20 basis points. The dollar increase was driven by higher store selling expenses given pandemic-related store closures in 2020 and an increase in marketing expense as we returned to more normalized activity. Operating income for 2021 was $2.009 billion, an increase of 25% compared to 2020, and the operating income rate increased by 60 basis points to 25.5%.
For additional information related to our 2021 financial performance, see “Results of Operations – 2021 Compared to 2020.”

27

Table of Contents
2022 Outlook
We believe that the Bath & Body Works brand is strong, with continued opportunities for growth. In 2022, we are investing in the business to support long-term growth, and there are macroeconomic factors, such as inflation, that will impact our results. The following macroeconomic pressures and investments could impact our results of operations and cash flows in 2022:
•We are lapping two years of extraordinary growth in the business. Since 2019, sales have increased by 46%, and operating income has increased by 93%. The first quarter of 2021 benefited from customers receiving government stimulus payments;
•We are experiencing increased inflationary pressures in raw materials, energy and fuel costs as well as transportation and wage rates. We estimate that these increased and incremental costs could range between $150 million and $175 million throughout 2022. While we have strategically raised prices and are carefully managing promotional activity to partially offset these costs, we plan to be thoughtful about customer response to additional price increases;
•We continue to invest in the customer experience and plan to introduce our loyalty program to the balance of our U.S. chain starting in summer 2022. We expect that the loyalty program will drive sales and customer retention, deepening our relationships with customers over the long-term. The introduction of the program will result in an initial revenue deferral for our customers’ accumulated points until they are used; and
•We are experiencing some deleverage and incremental project costs as we build and separate our own technology function to support our standalone business. We are also investing in a new Company-operated fulfillment center to complement our existing third-party network.

28

Table of Contents
Adjusted Financial Information from Continuing Operations
In addition to our results provided in accordance with GAAP above and throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provided below are non-GAAP measurements which present operating income, net income from continuing operations and earnings from continuing operations per share in 2021, 2020 and 2019 on an adjusted basis, which remove certain special items. We believe that these special items are not indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and nature. We use adjusted financial information as key performance measures of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Instead, we believe that the presentation of adjusted financial information provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Further, our definitions of adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies. The table below reconciles the GAAP financial measures to the non-GAAP financial measures.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ------ ---- ----- ---- - -----
(in millions, except per share amounts) 2021 2020 2019
Reconciliation of Reported Operating Income to Adjusted Operating Income
Reported Operating Income $ 2,009 $ 1,604 $ 1,040
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) 9 — —
Restructuring Charges (b) — 30 —
Adjusted Operating Income $ 2,019 $ 1,634 $ 1,040

Reconciliation of Reported Net Income from Continuing Operations to Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations
Reported Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 1,075 $ 865 $ 460
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) 9 — —
Restructuring Charges (b) — 30 —
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt (c) 195 53 40
La Senza Charges (d) — — 37
Tax Benefit from the Resolution of Certain Tax Matters (e) — (50) —
Tax Benefit of Special Items in Operating Income and Other Loss (49) (18) (19)
Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 1,230 $ 878 $ 517

Reconciliation of Reported Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share to Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share
Reported Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share $ 3.94 $ 3.07 $ 1.65
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) 0.03 — —
Restructuring Charges (b) — 0.08 —
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt (c) 0.54 0.14 0.11
La Senza Charges (d) — — 0.10
Tax Benefit from the Resolution of Certain Tax Matters (e) — (0.18) —
Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share $ 4.51 $ 3.12 $ 1.86
 ________________
(a)In the fourth quarter of 2021, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $9 million ($7 million after tax) related to the write-off of inventory that was destroyed by a tornado at a vendor']:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[" in this Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Additionally, subsequent to January 29, 2022, we repurchased an additional 1.9 million shares of our common stock for $92 million under the February 2022 Program.
Common Stock Retirement
In accordance with our Board']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17
