================================================================================
CIK: 0000940944
Company Name: DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC
Filing Date: 2022-07-22
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 08:03:50
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2021, filed with the SEC on July 23, 2021.
SEASONALITY
Our sales volumes have historically fluctuated seasonally. Typically, our average sales per restaurant are highest in the winter and spring, followed by the summer, and lowest in the fall. Holidays, changes in the economy, severe weather and similar conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Because of the historical seasonality of our business and these other factors, results for any fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.

31

IMPACT OF INFLATION
We attempt to minimize the annual effects of inflation through appropriate planning, operating practices and menu price increases. We are currently operating in a period of higher than usual inflation, led by food and beverage cost and labor inflation. Food and beverage inflation is principally due to increased costs incurred by our vendors related to higher labor, transportation, packaging, and raw materials costs. Some of the impacts of the inflation have been offset by menu price increases and other adjustments made during the year. Whether we are able and/or choose to continue to offset the effects of inflation will determine to what extent, if any, inflation affects our restaurant profitability in future periods.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of sales and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report). Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. We consider the following estimates to be most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing our consolidated financial statements.

Leases
We evaluate our leases at their inception to estimate their expected term, which commences on the date when we have the right to control the use of the leased property and includes the non-cancelable base term plus all option periods we are reasonably certain to exercise. Our judgment in determining the appropriate expected term and discount rate for each lease affects our evaluation of:
•The classification and accounting for leases as operating versus finance;
•The rent holidays and escalation in payments that are included in the calculation of the lease liability and related right-of-use asset; and
•The term over which leasehold improvements for each restaurant facility are amortized.
These judgments may produce materially different amounts of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets recognized on our consolidated balance sheets, as well as depreciation, amortization, interest and rent expense recognized in our consolidated statements of earnings if different discount rates and expected lease terms were used.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets
Land, buildings and equipment, operating lease right-of-use assets and certain other assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; changes in expected useful life; unanticipated competition; slower growth rates, ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, or changes in the usage or operating performance. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Based on a review of operating results for each of our restaurants, given the current operating environment, the amount of net book value associated with lower performing restaurants that would be deemed at risk for impairment is not material to our consolidated financial statements.

Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill and Trademarks
 Goodwill and trademarks are not subject to amortization and goodwill has been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing. The reporting units are our restaurant brands. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We review our goodwill and trademarks for impairment annually, as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist.

32

During fiscal 2022, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment for our annual impairment review of goodwill and trademarks to determine whether or not indicators of impairment exist. In considering the qualitative approach related to goodwill, we evaluated factors including, but not limited to, COVID-19, macro-economic conditions, market and industry conditions, commodity cost fluctuations, competitive environment, share price performance, results of prior impairment tests, operational stability, the overall financial performance of the reporting units and the impacts of discount rates. As it relates to trademarks, we evaluate similar factors from the goodwill assessment, in addition to impacts of royalty rates. Based on the results of the qualitative assessment which considered the improvements of each of our brands’ financial performance, as well as the improved overall operating environment, no indicators of impairment were identified. Changes in circumstances existing at the measurement date or at other times in the future, or in the numerous estimates associated with management’s judgments and assumptions made in assessing the fair value of our goodwill and trademarks, could result in an impairment loss of a portion or all of our goodwill or trademarks.
Impairment of our assets, including goodwill or trademarks, adversely affects our financial position and results of operations, and our leverage ratio for purposes of our revolving credit agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement) increases. A leverage ratio exceeding the maximum permitted under our Revolving Credit Agreement would be a default under our Revolving Credit Agreement.  At May 29, 2022, additional write-downs of goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets, or any other assets in excess of approximately $1.03 billion would have been required to cause our leverage ratio to exceed the permitted maximum. As our leverage ratio is determined on a quarterly basis, and due to the seasonal nature of our business, a lesser amount of impairment in future quarters could cause our leverage ratio to exceed the permitted maximum.
Unearned Revenues
Unearned revenues primarily represent our liability for gift cards that have been sold but not yet redeemed. The estimated value of gift cards expected to remain unused is recognized over the expected period of redemption as the remaining gift card values are redeemed, generally over a period of 12 years. Utilizing this method, we estimate both the amount of breakage and the time period of redemption. If actual redemption patterns vary from our estimates, actual gift card breakage income may differ from the amounts recorded. We update our estimates of our redemption period and our breakage rate periodically and apply that rate to gift card redemptions on a prospective basis. Changing our breakage-rate estimates by 50 basis points would have resulted in an adjustment in our breakage income of approximately $3.1 million for fiscal 2022.
Income Taxes
We estimate certain components of our provision for income taxes. These estimates include, among other items, depreciation and amortization expense allowable for tax purposes, allowable tax credits for items such as taxes paid on reported employee tip income, effective rates for state and local income taxes and the tax deductibility of certain other items. We adjust our annual effective income tax rate as additional information on outcomes or events becomes available.
Assessment of uncertain tax positions requires judgments relating to the amounts, timing and likelihood of resolution. As described in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report), the $22.2 million balance of unrecognized tax benefits at May 29, 2022, includes $5.8 million related to tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amounts could change during the next 12 months based on the outcome of examinations. Of the $5.8 million, $3.7 million relates to items that would impact our effective income tax rate.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Typically, cash flows generated from operating activities are our principal source of liquidity, which we use to finance capital expenditures for new restaurants and to remodel and maintain existing restaurants, to pay dividends to our shareholders and to repurchase shares of our common stock. Since substantially all of our sales are for cash and cash equivalents, and accounts payable are generally paid in 5 to 90 days, we are typically able to carry current liabilities in excess of current assets.
We currently manage our business and financial ratios to target an investment-grade bond rating, which has historically allowed flexible access to financing at reasonable costs. Our publicly issued long-term debt currently carries the following ratings:
•Moody’s Investors Service “Baa2”;
•Standard & Poor’s “BBB”; and
•Fitch “BBB”.
Our commercial paper has ratings of:
•Moody’s Investors Service “P-2”;
•Standard & Poor’s “A-2”; and
•Fitch “F-2”.

33

These ratings are as of the date of the filing of this report and have been obtained with the understanding that Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch will continue to monitor our credit and make future adjustments to these ratings to the extent warranted. The ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities, may be changed, superseded or withdrawn at any time and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
On September 10, 2021, we entered into a $1 billion Revolving Credit Agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement) with Bank of America, N.A. (BOA), as administrative agent, and the lenders and other agents party thereto. The Revolving Credit Agreement is a senior unsecured credit commitment to the Company and contains customary representations and affirmative and negative covenants (including limitations on liens and subsidiary debt and a maximum consolidated lease adjusted total debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.75 to 1.00) and events of default usual for credit facilities of this type. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced our prior $750.0 million revolving credit agreement, dated as of October 27, 2017 and amended as of March 25, 2020. As of May 29, 2022, we had no outstanding balances and we were in compliance with all covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement.

The Revolving Credit Agreement matures on September 10, 2026, and the proceeds may be used for working capital and capital expenditures, the refinancing of certain indebtedness, certain acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Loans under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a margin determined by reference to a ratings-based pricing grid (Applicable Margin), or the base rate (which is defined as the highest of the BOA prime rate, the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500 percent, and the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00 percent) plus the Applicable Margin. Assuming a “BBB” equivalent credit rating level, the Applicable Margin under the Revolving Credit Agreement will be 1.000 percent for LIBOR loans and 0.000 percent for base rate loans.
As of May 29, 2022, our outstanding long-term debt consisted principally of:
•$500.0 million of unsecured 3.850 percent senior notes due in May 2027;
•$96.3 million of unsecured 6.000 percent senior notes due in August 2035;
•$42.8 million of unsecured 6.800 percent senior notes due in October 2037; and
•$300.0 million of unsecured 4.550 percent senior notes due in February 2048.
The interest rate on our $42.8 million 6.800 percent senior notes due October 2037 is subject to adjustment from time to time if the debt rating assigned to such series of notes is downgraded below a certain rating level (or subsequently upgraded). The maximum adjustment is 2.000 percent above the initial interest rate and the interest rate cannot be reduced below the initial interest rate. As of May 29, 2022, no such adjustments are made to this rate.
Through our shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, depending on conditions prevailing in the public capital markets, we may issue equity securities or unsecured debt securities from time to time in one or more series, which may consist of notes, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness in one or more offerings.
From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt in privately negotiated transactions. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements and other factors.
From time to time, we enter into interest rate derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk inherent in our operations. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report).

34

A summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at May 29, 2022, is as follows:

------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------ ------- ---------------- ----- --------- ------- --------- ----------------- ------- ------- ------- - -------
(in millions) Payments Due by Period
Contractual Obligations Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years

Long-term debt (1) $ 1,513.3 $ 41.6 $ 83.2 $ 583.2 $ 805.3
Leases (2) 3,087.1 424.5 791.1 687.5 1,184.0
Purchase obligations (3) 745.6 520.2 221.0 4.4 —
Benefit obligations (4) 395.7 33.9 71.2 76.0 214.6
Unrecognized income tax benefits (5) 24.4 7.2 4.6 12.6 —
Total contractual obligations $ 5,766.1 $ 1,027.4 $ 1,171.1 $ 1,363.7 $ 2,203.9

(in millions) Amount of Commitment Expiration per Period
Other Commercial Commitments Total Amounts Committed Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years
Standby letters of credit (6) $ 123.6 $ 123.6 $ — $ — $ —
Guarantees (7) 101.0 32.0 43.8 19.0 6.2
Total commercial commitments $ 224.6 $ 155.6 $ 43.8 $ 19.0 $ 6.2

(1)Includes interest payments associated with existing long-term debt. Excludes discount and issuance costs of $10.1 million.
(2)Includes non-cancelable future operating lease and finance lease commitments.
(3)Includes commitments for food and beverage items and supplies, capital projects, information technology and other miscellaneous items.
(4)Includes expected contributions associated with our supplemental defined benefit pension plan and payments associated with our postretirement benefit plan and our non-qualified deferred compensation plan through fiscal 2032.
(5)Includes interest on unrecognized income tax benefits of $2.2 million, $1.4 million of which relates to contingencies expected to be resolved within one year.
(6)Includes letters of credit for $104.8 million of workers’ compensation and general liabilities accrued in our consolidated financial statements and letters of credit for $18.8 million of surety bonds related to other payments.
(7)Consists solely of guarantees associated with leased properties that have been assigned to third parties and are primarily related to the disposition of Red Lobster in fiscal 2015.

35

Our adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio was 61 percent and 55 percent as of May 29, 2022 and May 30, 2021, respectively. Based on these ratios, we believe our financial condition is strong. We include the lease-debt equivalent and contractual lease guarantees in our adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio reported to shareholders, as we believe its inclusion better represents the optimal capital structure that we target from period to period and because it is consistent with the calculation of the covenant under our Revolving Credit Agreement. For fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, the lease-debt equivalent includes 6.00 times the total annual minimum rent for consolidated lease obligations of $409.8 million and $385.7 million, respectively. The composition of our capital structure is shown in the following table:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ------- ------------ ------- - -------
(in millions, except ratios) May 29, 2022 May 30, 2021
CAPITAL STRUCTURE

Long-term debt, excluding unamortized discount and issuance costs and fair value hedge 939.1 938.9

Total debt $ 939.1 $ 938.9
Stockholders’ equity 2,198.2 2,813.1
Total capital $ 3,137.3 $ 3,752.0
CALCULATION OF ADJUSTED CAPITAL
Total debt $ 939.1 $ 938.9
Lease-debt equivalent 2,459.0 2,314.2
Guarantees 101.0 121.5
Adjusted debt $ 3,499.1 $ 3,374.6
Stockholders’ equity 2,198.2 2,813.1
Adjusted total capital $ 5,697.3 $ 6,187.7
CAPITAL STRUCTURE RATIOS
Debt to total capital ratio 30 % 25 %
Adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio 61 % 55 %

Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations were $1.26 billion and $1.19 billion in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities include net earnings from continuing operations of $954.7 million in fiscal 2022 and $632.4 million in fiscal 2021. Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased in fiscal 2022 primarily due to higher net earnings from continuing operations.
Net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations were $389.0 million and $263.7 million in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Capital expenditures incurred principally for building new restaurants, remodeling existing restaurants, replacing equipment, and technology initiatives were $376.9 million in fiscal 2022, compared to $254.9 million in fiscal 2021.
Net cash flows used in financing activities from continuing operations were $1.61 billion and $478.9 million in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net cash flows used in financing activities in fiscal 2022 included dividend payments of $563.0 million and share repurchases of $1.07 billion, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Net cash flows used in financing activities in fiscal 2021 included repayment of $270.0 million from a 364-day term loan, dividend payments of $202.6 million and share repurchases of $45.4 million, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options.

Our defined benefit and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are determined using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies prescribed under Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits and Topic 712, Compensation - Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits. We expect to contribute approximately $0.4 million to our supplemental defined benefit pension plan and approximately $1.9 million to our postretirement benefit plan during fiscal 2023.
We are not aware of any trends or events that would materially affect our capital requirements or liquidity. We believe that our internal cash-generating capabilities, the potential issuance of equity or unsecured debt securities under our shelf registration statement and short-term commercial paper or drawings under our Revolving Credit Agreement should be sufficient to finance our capital expenditures, debt maturities and other operating activities through fiscal 2023.

36

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, sales or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

FINANCIAL CONDITION
Our total current assets were $1.18 billion at May 29, 2022, compared with $1.87 billion at May 30, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents driven by increased share repurchases in fiscal 2022.
Our total current liabilities were $1.85 billion at May 29, 2022 and May 30, 2021. Decreases in other current liabilities were offset by increases in accounts payable and unearned revenues associated with gift card sales in excess of gift card redemptions.

APPLICATION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report) for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29
