================================================================================
CIK: 0001711269
Company Name: Evergy, Inc
Filing Date: 2022-02-25
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 06:37:04
================================================================================

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following combined MD&A should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in this combined annual report on Form 10-K. None of the registrants make any representation as to information related solely to Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central or Evergy Metro other than itself.

The following MD&A generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 can be found in MD&A in Part II, Item 7, of the Evergy Companies' combined annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.

EVERGY, INC.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Evergy is a public utility holding company incorporated in 2017 and headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri. Evergy operates primarily through the following wholly-owned direct subsidiaries listed below.
•Evergy Kansas Central is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Kansas. Evergy Kansas Central has one active wholly-owned subsidiary with significant operations, Evergy Kansas South.
•Evergy Metro is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the states of Missouri and Kansas.
•Evergy Missouri West is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Missouri.
•Evergy Transmission Company owns 13.5% of Transource with the remaining 86.5% owned by AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC, a subsidiary of AEP. Transource is focused on the development of

34

Table of Contents
competitive electric transmission projects. Evergy Transmission Company accounts for its investment in Transource under the equity method.
Evergy Kansas Central also owns a 50% interest in Prairie Wind, which is a joint venture between Evergy Kansas Central and subsidiaries of AEP and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company. Prairie Wind owns a 108-mile, 345 kV double-circuit transmission line that provides transmission service in the SPP. Evergy Kansas Central accounts for its investment in Prairie Wind under the equity method.
Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Kansas South, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West conduct business in their respective service territories using the name Evergy. Collectively, the Evergy Companies have approximately 15,400 MWs of owned generating capacity and renewable power purchase agreements and engage in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers in the states of Kansas and Missouri. The Evergy Companies assess financial performance and allocate resources on a consolidated basis (i.e., operate in one segment).
Strategy
Evergy expects to continue operating its integrated utilities within the currently existing regulatory frameworks and is focused on empowering a better future for its customers, communities, employees and shareholders. The core tenets of Evergy's strategy are as follows:
•Affordability - working to keep rates affordable and improve regional rate competitiveness;
•Reliability - targeting top-tier performance in reliability, customer service and generation; and
•Sustainability - advancing ongoing CO2 emissions reductions and generation fleet transition.
Significant elements of Evergy's plan to achieve its strategic objectives include:
•targeting an annual reduction of approximately $345 million of operating and maintenance expense by 2025 from 2018 adjusted operating and maintenance expense (non-GAAP) (see "Non-GAAP Measures" within this Executive Summary for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure);
•targeting approximately $10.7 billion of expected base capital investments through 2026 including approximately $2.0 billion in renewable generation. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources; Capital Expenditures", for further information regarding Evergy's projected capital expenditures through 2026; and
•targeting a 70% reduction of CO2 emissions by 2030 (from 2005 levels) and net-zero by 2045 through the continued growth of Evergy's renewable energy portfolio and the retirement of older and less efficient fossil fuel plants. See "Transitioning Evergy's Generation Fleet" in Part I, Item 1., Business, for additional information.
See "Cautionary Statements Regarding Certain Forward-Looking Information" and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information.
Regulatory Proceedings
In January 2022, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West filed applications with the MPSC to request increases to their retail electric revenues of $43.9 million and $27.7 million, respectively, before rebasing fuel and purchased power expense, with a return on equity of 10%. The requests reflect increases related to higher property taxes and the recovery of infrastructure investments made to improve reliability and enhance customer service and were also partially offset by significant customer savings and cost reductions created since the Great Plains Energy and Evergy Kansas Central merger in 2018. Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are also requesting the implementation of tracking mechanisms for both property tax expense and credit loss expense and the creation of a storm reserve as part of their requests with the MPSC.
See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Missouri rate cases in addition to information on other regulatory proceedings.

35

Table of Contents
Evergy Equity Investment
From time to time, Evergy makes limited equity investments in early-stage energy solution companies. These investments have historically not had a significant impact on Evergy's results of operations. In October 2021, an equity investment in which Evergy held a minority stake through an initial investment of $3.7 million was acquired through a transaction involving a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC). As a result of its equity investment in the company that was acquired in the SPAC transaction, Evergy received shares of the resulting public company upon the closing of the transaction, which are subject to a restriction on sale for 150 days. Evergy recorded a $27.7 million unrealized gain in the fourth quarter of 2021 for the conversion of its shares into the newly formed public company and based on the closing share price as of December 31, 2021 adjusted to reflect the restriction on the sale of the shares. The fair value of Evergy's investment is largely dependent on the performance of the new public company's stock, which is subject to significant market volatility and also affected by the restriction on sale of the shares until March 2022, when the restriction expires. Evergy uses adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) to evaluate earnings and EPS without the gains or losses related to equity investments which are subject to a restriction on sale that can create period to period volatility. See "Non-GAAP Measures" within this Executive Summary for additional information.
LEC Unit 4 Securitization
In April 2021, the state of Kansas passed the Utility Financing and Securitization Act (UFSA) which allows certain public utilities, including Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro, to securitize utility assets in order to recover energy transition costs relating to the early retirement of certain generating assets. To recover the energy transition costs through securitization as allowed in the UFSA, a public utility must obtain a predetermination order from the KCC finding that the retirement of the subject generation facility is reasonable. Upon the receipt of a successful predetermination order, the public utility must then file an application with the KCC for a financing order to issue securitized bonds to recover the energy transition costs. The UFSA also allows the pursuit of securitization to help finance qualified extraordinary expenses, such as fuel costs incurred during extreme weather events.
In September 2021, Evergy Kansas Central filed a predetermination request with the KCC for the ratemaking principles and treatment related to its planned investment in approximately 190 MW of solar generation and the planned retirement of coal-fired LEC Unit 4 and related coal-handling facilities for LEC Units 4 and 5, both of which are expected to occur between December 2023 and the first half of 2024. In February 2022, Evergy Kansas Central withdrew its predetermination request with the KCC in order to finalize definitive documentation associated with the solar investment and to develop additional information to enable the KCC to evaluate its predetermination request. Evergy Kansas Central anticipates refiling its predetermination request, including this additional information, later in 2022.
If the KCC finds that Evergy Kansas Central's planned retirement of LEC Unit 4 and investment in 190 MW of solar generation is prudent as part of a predetermination request, Evergy Kansas Central then plans to file an application with the KCC for a financing order authorizing the issuance of securitized bonds to recover energy transition costs associated with the retirement of LEC Unit 4 and the related coal-handling facilities for LEC Units 4 and 5.
February 2021 Winter Weather Event
In February 2021, much of the central and southern United States, including the service territories of the Evergy Companies, experienced a significant winter weather event that resulted in extremely cold temperatures over a multi-day period (February 2021 winter weather event). The February 2021 winter weather event resulted in an increase in the demand for natural gas used by the Evergy Companies for generating electricity and also contributed to the limited availability of other generation resources, including coal and renewables, within the SPP Integrated Marketplace. As part of the February 2021 winter weather event, Evergy incurred natural gas and purchased power costs, net of wholesale revenues, of $365.5 million. This $365.5 million of net fuel and purchased power costs was primarily driven by $296.4 million of costs at Evergy Missouri West and $133.9 million of costs at Evergy Kansas Central, partially offset by $64.8 million of net wholesale revenues at Evergy Metro. The amount of purchased power costs incurred by the Evergy Companies during the February 2021 winter weather event is subject to resettlement activity and further review by the SPP. This review and any subsequent resettlement activity could

36

Table of Contents
result in increases or decreases to the final amount of purchased power costs incurred by the Evergy Companies during the February 2021 winter weather event and these changes could be material.
As of December 31, 2021, the Evergy Companies have deferred substantially all of the fuel and purchased power costs, net of wholesale revenues, related to the February 2021 winter weather event to a regulatory asset or liability pursuant to their fuel recovery mechanisms and an emergency AAO issued by the KCC in February 2021. Further, in June 2021, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West filed a joint request for an AAO with the MPSC regarding the deferral and subsequent recovery or refund of the February 2021 winter weather event amounts. While the Evergy Companies expect to recover substantially all of any increased fuel and purchased power costs related to the February 2021 winter weather event from customers, the timing of the cost recovery could be delayed or spread over a longer than typical recovery timeframe by the KCC or the MPSC to help moderate monthly customer bill impacts given the extraordinary nature of the February 2021 winter weather event.
The Evergy Companies also engage in limited non-regulated energy marketing activities in various regional power markets that have historically not had a significant impact on the Evergy Companies' results of operations. These energy marketing margins are recorded net in operating revenues on the Evergy Companies' statements of income and comprehensive income. As a result of the elevated market prices experienced in regional power markets across the central and southern United States driven by the February 2021 winter weather event discussed above, Evergy and Evergy Kansas Central recorded $94.5 million of energy marketing margins in 2021 related to the February 2021 winter weather event, primarily driven by activities in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT).
See Notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the February 2021 winter weather event and related AAOs.
Bluescape Energy Partners, LLC (Bluescape) Securities Purchase Agreement
See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding Evergy's securities purchase agreement with an affiliate of Bluescape to purchase Evergy's common stock and a warrant that was completed in April 2021.
Impact of COVID-19
See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on the Evergy Companies.
Earnings Overview
The following table summarizes Evergy's net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS).

--------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ----- ------ ---- ---- ----- ---- - -----

 2021 Change 2020
 (millions, except per share amounts)
Net income attributable to Evergy, Inc. $ 879.7 $ 261.4 $ 618.3
Earnings per common share, diluted 3.83 1.11 2.72

Net income attributable to Evergy, Inc. increased in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to non-regulated energy marketing margins related to the February 2021 winter weather event, higher retail sales driven by favorable weather and demand, lower operating and maintenance expenses, higher equity allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC), higher investment earnings and lower interest expense; partially offset by higher property taxes, higher depreciation expense and higher income tax expense.
Diluted EPS increased in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to the increase in net income attributable to Evergy, Inc. discussed above.
For additional information regarding the change in net income, refer to the Evergy Results of Operations section within this MD&A.

37

Table of Contents
Non-GAAP Measures
Adjusted Earnings (non-GAAP) and Adjusted EPS (non-GAAP)
Evergy's adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) for 2021 were $812.6 million or $3.54 per share, respectively. For 2020, Evergy's adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) were $705.5 million or $3.10 per share, respectively. In addition to net income attributable to Evergy, Inc. and diluted EPS, Evergy's management uses adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) to evaluate earnings and EPS without the income or costs resulting from non-regulated energy marketing margins from the February 2021 winter weather event and gains or losses related to equity investments which are subject to a restriction on sale that can create period to period volatility, as well as costs resulting from executive transition, severance, advisor expenses, COVID-19 vaccine incentives and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities from the Kansas corporate income tax rate change.
Adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) are intended to enhance an investor's overall understanding of results. Management believes that adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) provides a meaningful basis for evaluating Evergy's operations across periods because it excludes certain items that management does not believe are indicative of Evergy's ongoing performance.
Adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) are used internally to measure performance against budget and in reports for management and the Evergy Board. Adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) are financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies' presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report.
The following table provides a reconciliation between net income attributable to Evergy, Inc. and diluted EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ----- --------------------------------- ------ --------------- ---- --------------------------------- - ------ - ----
 Earnings (Loss) Earnings (Loss) per Diluted Share Earnings (Loss) Earnings (Loss) per Diluted Share
 2021 2020
 (millions, except per share amounts)
Net income attributable to Evergy, Inc. $ 879.7 $ 3.83 $ 618.3 $ 2.72
Non-GAAP reconciling items:
Non-regulated energy marketing margin related to February 2021 winter weather event, pre-tax(a) (94.5) (0.41) — —
Non-regulated energy marketing costs related to February 2021 winter weather event, pre-tax(b) 7.9 0.03 — —
Executive transition costs, pre-tax(c) 10.8 0.05 — —
Severance costs, pre-tax(d) 2.8 0.01 66.3 0.29
Advisor expenses, pre-tax(e) 11.6 0.05 32.3 0.14
COVID-19 vaccine incentive, pre-tax(f) 1.2 0.01 — —
Restricted equity investment gains, pre-tax(g) (27.7) (0.12) — —
Income tax expense (benefit)(h) 20.8 0.09 (25.2) (0.11)
Kansas corporate income tax change(i) — — 13.8 0.06
Adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) $ 812.6 $ 3.54 $ 705.5 $ 3.10

(a)Reflects non-regulated energy marketing margins related to the February 2021 winter weather event and are included in operating revenues on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
(b)Reflects non-regulated energy marketing incentive compensation costs related to the February 2021 winter weather event and are included in operating and maintenance expense on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
(c)Reflects costs associated with executive transition including inducement bonuses, severance agreements and other transition expenses of which $10.5 million is included in operating and maintenance expense and $0.3 million is included in other expense in 2021 on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
(d)Reflects severance costs incurred associated with certain voluntary severance programs at the Evergy Companies and are included in operating and maintenance expense on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.

38

Table of Contents
(e)Reflects advisor expenses incurred associated with strategic planning and are included in operating and maintenance expense on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
(f)Reflects incentive compensation costs incurred associated with employees becoming fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and are included in operating and maintenance expense on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
(g)Reflects gains related to equity investments which are subject to a restriction on sale and are included in investment earnings on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
(h)Reflects an income tax effect calculated at a statutory rate of approximately 22% in 2021 and 26% in 2020, with the exception of certain non-deductible items.
(i)Reflects the revaluation of Evergy Kansas Central's, Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's deferred income tax assets and liabilities from the Kansas corporate income tax rate change and are included in income tax expense on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.

2018 Adjusted Operating and Maintenance Expense
The following table provides a reconciliation between 2018 operating and maintenance expense and 2018 pro forma operating and maintenance expense as determined in accordance with GAAP and 2018 adjusted operating and maintenance expense (non-GAAP). Evergy's 2018 adjusted operating and maintenance expense (non-GAAP) is used as the base for Evergy's targeted operating and maintenance expense reductions by 2025.

------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- -------
 (millions)
2018 Operating and maintenance expense $ 1,115.8
Pro forma adjustments(a):
Great Plains Energy operating and maintenance expense prior to the merger 317.9
Non-recurring merger costs and other (101.3)
2018 Pro forma operating and maintenance expense $ 1,332.4
Non-GAAP reconciling items:
Voluntary severance costs(b) (23.5)
Deferral of merger transition costs(c) 28.5
Inventory write-offs at retiring generating units(d) (31.0)
2018 Adjusted operating and maintenance expense (non-GAAP) $ 1,306.4

(a)Reflects pro forma adjustments made in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X and ASC 805 - Business Combinations. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in the Evergy Companies' combined 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these adjustments.
(b)Reflects severance costs incurred associated with certain voluntary severance programs at the Evergy Companies and are included in operating and maintenance expense on the 2018 consolidated statements of comprehensive income in the Evergy Companies' combined 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(c)Reflects the portion of the $47.8 million deferral of merger transition costs to a regulatory asset in June 2018 that related to costs incurred prior to 2018. The remaining merger transition costs included within the $47.8 million deferral were both incurred and deferred in 2018 and did not impact earnings. This item is included in operating and maintenance expense on the 2018 consolidated statements of comprehensive income in the Evergy Companies' combined 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(d)Reflects obsolete inventory write-offs for Evergy Kansas Central's Unit 7 at Tecumseh Energy Center, Units 3 and 4 at Murray Gill Energy Center, Units 1 and 2 at Gordon Evans Energy Center, Evergy Metro's Montrose Station and Evergy Missouri West's Sibley Station and are included in operating and maintenance expense on the 2018 consolidated statements of comprehensive income in the Evergy Companies' combined 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Wolf Creek Refueling Outage
Wolf Creek's most recent refueling outage began in March 2021 and the unit returned to service in May 2021. Wolf Creek's next refueling outage is planned to begin in the third quarter of 2022.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding environmental matters.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding related party transactions.

39

Table of Contents
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and changes in the estimate, or different estimates that could have been used, could have a material impact on Evergy's results of operations and financial position. Management has identified the following accounting policies as critical to the understanding of Evergy's results of operations and financial position. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Evergy Board.
Pensions
Evergy incurs significant costs in providing non-contributory defined pension benefits. The costs are measured using actuarial valuations that are dependent upon numerous factors derived from actual plan experience and assumptions of future plan experience.
Pension costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, life expectancies, compensation levels and employment periods), earnings on plan assets, the level of contributions made to the plan, and plan amendments. In addition, pension costs are also affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and pension costs.
The assumed rate of return on plan assets was developed based on the weighted-average of long-term returns forecast for the expected portfolio mix of investments held by the plan. The assumed discount rate was selected based on the prevailing market rate of fixed income debt instruments with maturities matching the expected timing of the benefit obligation. These assumptions, updated annually at the measurement date, are based on management's best estimates and judgment; however, material changes may occur if these assumptions differ from actual events. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and net costs.
The following table reflects the sensitivities associated with a 0.5% increase or a 0.5% decrease in key actuarial assumptions for Evergy's qualified pension plans. Each sensitivity reflects the impact of the change based on a change in that assumption only.

----------------------------- ---------- ---------- ---------- --------- ------ ------- ----- - ------
 Impact on Impact on
 Projected 2022
 Change in Benefit Pension
Actuarial assumption Assumption Obligation Expense
 (millions)
Discount rate 0.5 % increase $ (193.6) $ (18.5)
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 % increase — (7.9)
Rate of compensation 0.5 % increase 50.7 9.4
Discount rate 0.5 % decrease 219.6 20.7
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 % decrease — 7.9
Rate of compensation 0.5 % decrease (47.3) (8.8)

Pension expense for Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West is recorded in accordance with rate orders from the KCC and MPSC. The orders allow the difference between pension costs under GAAP and pension costs for ratemaking to be recorded as a regulatory asset or liability with future ratemaking recovery or refunds, as appropriate.
In 2021, Evergy's pension expense was $153.7 million under GAAP and $171.0 million for ratemaking. The impact on 2022 pension expense in the table above reflects the impact on GAAP pension costs. Under the Evergy Companies' rate agreements, any increase or decrease in GAAP pension expense is deferred to a regulatory asset or

40

Table of Contents
liability for future ratemaking treatment. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the accounting for pensions.
Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect the future assets and liabilities of the plan. It is difficult to predict future pension costs, changes in pension liability and cash funding requirements due to the inherent uncertainty of market conditions.
Revenue Recognition
Evergy recognizes revenue on the sale of electricity to customers over time as the service is provided in the amount it has the right to invoice. Revenues recorded include electric services provided but not yet billed by Evergy. Unbilled revenues are recorded for kWh usage in the period following the customers' billing cycle to the end of the month. This estimate is based on net system kWh usage less actual billed kWhs. Evergy's estimated unbilled kWhs are allocated and priced by regulatory jurisdiction across the rate classes based on actual billing rates. Evergy's unbilled revenue estimate is affected by factors including fluctuations in energy demand, weather, line losses and changes in the composition of customer classes. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for the balance of unbilled receivables for Evergy as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Regulatory Assets and Liabilities
Evergy has recorded assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets resulting from the effects of the ratemaking process, which would not otherwise be recorded under GAAP. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that are probable of recovery from future revenues. Regulatory liabilities represent future reductions in revenues or refunds to customers.
Management regularly assesses whether regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of future recovery or refund by considering factors such as decisions by the MPSC, KCC or FERC in Evergy's rate case filings; decisions in other regulatory proceedings, including decisions related to other companies that establish precedent on matters applicable to Evergy; and changes in laws and regulations. If recovery or refund of regulatory assets or liabilities is not approved by regulators or is no longer deemed probable, these regulatory assets or liabilities are recognized in the current period results of operations. Evergy's continued ability to meet the criteria for recording regulatory assets and liabilities may be affected in the future by restructuring and deregulation in the electric industry or changes in accounting rules. In the event that the criteria no longer applied to all or a portion of Evergy's operations, the related regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless an appropriate regulatory recovery mechanism were provided. Additionally, these factors could result in an impairment on utility plant assets. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Impairments of Assets and Goodwill
Long-lived assets are required to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable as prescribed under GAAP.
Accounting rules require goodwill to be tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs indicating the possibility that an impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test consists of comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill, to identify potential impairment. In the event that the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the carrying amount of the reporting unit and its fair value. Evergy's consolidated operations are considered one reporting unit for assessment of impairment, as management assesses financial performance and allocates resources on a consolidated basis. The annual impairment test for the $2,336.6 million of goodwill from the Great Plains Energy and Evergy Kansas Central merger was conducted as of May 1, 2021. The fair value of the reporting unit substantially exceeded the carrying amount, including goodwill. As a result, there was no impairment of goodwill.
The determination of fair value for the reporting unit consisted of two valuation techniques: an income approach consisting of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market approach consisting of a determination of reporting unit invested capital using a market multiple derived from the historical earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and market prices of the stock of peer companies. The results of the two techniques

41

Table of Contents
were evaluated and weighted to determine a point within the range that management considered representative of fair value for the reporting unit, which involves a significant amount of management judgment.
The discounted cash flow analysis is most significantly impacted by two assumptions: estimated future cash flows and the discount rate applied to those cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate to be based on the reporting unit's weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC takes into account both the return on equity authorized by the KCC and MPSC and after-tax cost of debt. Estimated future cash flows are based on Evergy's internal business plan, which assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of return on equity, anticipated returns of and earnings on future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service and the renewal of certain contracts. Management also makes assumptions regarding the run rate of operations, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. Should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, revisions to current cash flow assumptions could cause the fair value of the Evergy reporting unit under the income approach to be significantly different in future periods and could result in a future impairment charge to goodwill.
The market approach analysis is most significantly impacted by management's selection of relevant peer companies as well as the determination of an appropriate control premium to be added to the calculated invested capital of the reporting unit, as control premiums associated with a controlling interest are not reflected in the quoted market price of a single share of stock. Management determines an appropriate control premium by using an average of control premiums for recent acquisitions in the industry. Changes in results of peer companies, selection of different peer companies and future acquisitions with significantly different control premiums could result in a significantly different fair value of the Evergy reporting unit.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for using the asset/liability approach. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Deferred investment tax credits are amortized ratably over the life of the related property. Deferred tax assets are also recorded for net operating losses, capital losses and tax credit carryforwards. Evergy is required to estimate the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred tax liabilities and assets for future tax consequences of events reflected in Evergy's consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Actual results could differ from these estimates for a variety of reasons including changes in income tax laws, enacted tax rates and results of audits by taxing authorities. This process also requires management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact from which actual results may differ. Evergy records valuation allowances on deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Asset Retirement Obligations
Evergy has recognized legal obligations associated with the disposal of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development or normal operation of such assets. Concurrent with the recognition of the liability, the estimated cost of the ARO incurred at the time the related long-lived assets were either acquired, placed in service or when regulations establishing the obligation became effective is also recorded to property, plant and equipment, net on the consolidated balance sheets. The recording of AROs for regulated operations has no income statement impact due to the deferral of the adjustments through the establishment of a regulatory asset or an offset to a regulatory liability.
Evergy initially recorded AROs at fair value for the estimated cost to decommission Wolf Creek (94% indirect share), retire wind generating facilities, dispose of asbestos insulating material at its power plants, remediate ash disposal ponds and close ash landfills, among other items. ARO refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement may be conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. In determining Evergy's AROs, assumptions are made regarding probable future disposal costs and the timing of their occurrence. The results of these assumptions are discounted using credit-adjusted risk-free rates (CARFR). The CARFR is determined as the current U.S. Treasury bonds rates

42

Table of Contents
corresponding to the period of expected settlement activities and is adjusted for the associated bond rates Evergy would be charged to borrow for the specific time period. Any change in these assumptions could have a significant impact on Evergy's AROs reflected on its consolidated balance sheets.
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, Evergy had recorded AROs of $960.1 million and $941.9 million, respectively. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding Evergy's AROs.

EVERGY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Evergy's results of operations and financial position are affected by a variety of factors including rate regulation, fuel costs, weather, customer behavior and demand, the economy and competitive forces.
Substantially all of Evergy's revenues are subject to state or federal regulation. This regulation has a significant impact on the price the Evergy Companies charge for electric service. Evergy's results of operations and financial position are affected by its ability to align overall spending, both operating and capital, within the frameworks established by its regulators.
Wholesale revenues are impacted by, among other factors, demand, cost and availability of fuel and purchased power, price volatility, available generation capacity, transmission availability and weather.
The Evergy Companies use coal, uranium and gas for the generation of electricity for their customers and also purchase power through renewable power purchase agreements or on the open market. The prices for fuel used in generation or the market price of power purchases can fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors including supply, demand, weather and the broader economic environment. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West have fuel recovery mechanisms in their Kansas and Missouri jurisdictions, as applicable, that allow them to defer and subsequently recover or refund, through customer rates, substantially all of the variance in net energy costs from the amount set in base rates without a general rate case proceeding.
Weather significantly affects the amount of electricity that Evergy's customers use as electricity sales are seasonal. As summer peaking utilities, the third quarter typically accounts for the greatest electricity sales by the Evergy Companies. Hot summer temperatures and cold winter temperatures prompt more demand, especially among residential and commercial customers, and to a lesser extent, industrial customers. Mild weather reduces customer demand.
Energy efficiency investments by customers and the Evergy Companies also can affect the demand for electric service. Through MEEIA, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West offer energy efficiency and demand side management programs to their Missouri retail customers and recover program costs, throughput disincentive, and as applicable, certain earnings opportunities in retail rates through a rider mechanism.
The Evergy Companies' taxes other than income taxes, of which property taxes are a significant component, can fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including changes in taxable values and property tax rates. Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro's Kansas jurisdiction have property tax surcharges that allow them to defer and subsequently recover or refund, through customer rates, substantially all of the variance in property tax costs from the amounts set in base rates without a general rate case proceeding.

43

Table of Contents
The following table summarizes Evergy's comparative results of operations.

------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------- ------- ------ ------ ---- ----- ------- - -------
 2021 Change 2020
 (millions)
Operating revenues $ 5,586.7 $ 673.3 $ 4,913.4
Fuel and purchased power 1,557.0 458.0 1,099.0
SPP network transmission costs 290.4 27.2 263.2
Operating and maintenance 1,107.5 (55.5) 1,163.0
Depreciation and amortization 896.4 16.3 880.1
Taxes other than income tax 380.5 16.3 364.2
Income from operations 1,354.9 211.0 1,143.9
Other income (expense), net 18.8 54.9 (36.1)
Interest expense 372.6 (11.3) 383.9
Income tax expense 117.4 15.2 102.2
Equity in earnings of equity method investees, net of income taxes 8.2 (0.1) 8.3
Net income 891.9 261.9 630.0
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 12.2 0.5 11.7
Net income attributable to Evergy, Inc. $ 879.7 $ 261.4 $ 618.3

Evergy Utility Gross Margin and MWh Sales
Utility gross margin is a financial measure that is not calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Utility gross margin, as used by the Evergy Companies, is defined as operating revenues less fuel and purchased power costs and amounts billed by the SPP for network transmission costs. Expenses for fuel and purchased power costs, offset by wholesale sales margin, are subject to recovery through cost adjustment mechanisms.  As a result, changes in fuel and purchased power costs are offset in operating revenues with minimal impact on net income. In addition, SPP network transmission costs fluctuate primarily due to investments by SPP members for upgrades to the transmission grid within the SPP RTO.  As with fuel and purchased power costs, changes in SPP network transmission costs are mostly reflected in the prices charged to customers with minimal impact on net income. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the manner in which the Evergy Companies' reflect SPP revenues and expenses.
Management believes that utility gross margin provides a meaningful basis for evaluating the Evergy Companies' operations across periods because utility gross margin excludes the revenue effect of fluctuations in these expenses.  Utility gross margin is used internally to measure performance against budget and in reports for management and the Evergy Board.  Utility gross margin should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, income from operations, which is the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Evergy Companies' definition of utility gross margin may differ from similar terms used by other companies.

44

Table of Contents
The following table summarizes Evergy's utility gross margin and MWhs sold.

------------------------------ --------------------- ------- ----------- ------- ---- ----- --------- ------ ------- ---- --- ------ --- ------ ------
 Revenues and Expenses MWhs Sold
Utility Gross Margin 2021 Change 2020 2021 Change 2020
Retail revenues (millions) (thousands)
Residential $ 1,918.3 $ 9.1 $ 1,909.2 15,715 232 15,483
Commercial 1,681.3 39.6 1,641.7 17,659 664 16,995
Industrial 597.0 8.3 588.7 8,608 365 8,243
Other retail revenues 33.1 (5.4) 38.5 131 (1) 132
Total electric retail 4,229.7 51.6 4,178.1 42,113 1,260 40,853
Wholesale revenues 717.2 453.2 264.0 15,916 1,056 14,860
Transmission revenues 356.8 38.3 318.5 N/A N/A N/A
Other revenues 283.0 130.2 152.8 N/A N/A N/A
Operating revenues 5,586.7 673.3 4,913.4 58,029 2,316 55,713
Fuel and purchased power (1,557.0) (458.0) (1,099.0)
SPP network transmission costs (290.4) (27.2) (263.2)
Utility gross margin (a) 3,739.3 188.1 3,551.2
Operating and maintenance (1,107.5) 55.5 (1,163.0)
Depreciation and amortization (896.4) (16.3) (880.1)
Taxes other than income tax (380.5) (16.3) (364.2)
Income from operations $ 1,354.9 $ 211.0 $ 1,143.9

(a) Utility gross margin is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See explanation of utility gross margin above.
Evergy's utility gross margin increased $188.1 million in 2021, compared to 2020, driven by:
•$94.5 million of non-regulated energy marketing margins recognized at Evergy Kansas Central related to the February 2021 winter weather event;
•an $84.1 million increase primarily due to higher retail sales driven by favorable weather (cooling degree days increased 13%, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days) and an increase in weather-normalized commercial and industrial demand partially offset by a decrease in weather-normalized residential demand;
•a $38.3 million increase in transmission revenue primarily due to updated transmission costs reflected in Evergy Kansas Central's FERC transmission formula rate (TFR) effective in January 2021; and
•a $1.4 million net increase due to other impacts from the February 2021 winter weather event driven by:
◦a $33.8 million increase at Evergy Kansas Central driven by higher utility gross margin at its non-regulated 8% ownership share of Jeffrey Energy Center (JEC) due to higher wholesale sales prices and MWhs sold in February 2021; partially offset by
◦a $21.0 million decrease at Evergy Missouri West driven by $14.8 million of increased fuel and purchased power costs in February 2021 that are not currently recoverable from customers through its fuel recovery mechanism and a $6.2 million decrease related to a special requirements contract with an industrial customer; and
◦an $11.4 million decrease at Evergy Metro primarily driven by jurisdictional allocation differences currently present between its fuel recovery mechanisms in Missouri and Kansas regarding its refund to customers for the net increase in wholesale revenues in February 2021; partially offset by
•a $30.2 million decrease in revenues at Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro due to rate reductions beginning January 1, 2021, in Kansas to reflect their exemption from Kansas corporate income taxes.

45

Table of Contents
Operating and Maintenance
Evergy's operating and maintenance expense decreased $55.5 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $63.5 million decrease in voluntary severance expenses due to a $55.9 million decrease at Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West related to Evergy voluntary exit programs in 2020 and a $7.6 million decrease in voluntary severance expenses incurred at Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro related to Wolf Creek voluntary exit programs in 2020;
•a $20.7 million decrease in advisor expenses incurred in 2021 associated with strategic planning; and
•an $8.8 million decrease in various transmission and distribution operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to lower labor and contractor costs primarily driven by a higher mix of transmission capital projects in 2021; partially offset by
•$10.5 million of costs associated with executive transition in 2021, including inducement bonuses, severance agreements and other transition expenses;
•$7.9 million of costs at Evergy Kansas Central related to non-regulated energy marketing margins recognized during the February 2021 winter weather event;
•a $6.7 million increase in plant operating and maintenance expense at fossil-fuel generating units primarily due to a $6.3 million increase at Evergy Kansas Central primarily driven by a major maintenance outage at JEC in 2021 and higher material and supplies costs; and
•a $2.7 million increase in property insurance expense due to a lower annual refund of nuclear insurance premiums received by Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro in 2021 related to their ownership interests in Wolf Creek.
Depreciation and Amortization
Evergy's depreciation and amortization increased $16.3 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by higher capital additions at Evergy Kansas Central in 2021.
Taxes Other Than Income Tax
Evergy's taxes other than income tax increased $16.3 million in 2021, compared to 2020, driven by an increase in property taxes in Missouri and Kansas primarily due to higher assessed property tax values.
Other Income (Expense), Net
Evergy's other expense, net in 2020 became other income, net, in 2021 as a result of a $54.9 million increase in net other income items, primarily driven by:
•$49.1 million of higher investment earnings primarily driven by a $27.7 million unrealized gain in the fourth quarter of 2021 due to the change in fair value related to Evergy's investment in an early-stage energy solutions company and $14.0 million in realized gains from the sale of various equity investments in 2021;
•$12.2 million of higher Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro equity AFUDC primarily driven by higher construction work in progress balances at Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro and lower short-term debt balances at Evergy Metro in 2021; and
•$6.1 million of other income recorded in 2021 related to contract termination fees; partially offset by
•$4.8 million of lower Evergy Kansas Central corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) benefits in 2021.
Interest Expense
Evergy's interest expense decreased $11.3 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $12.7 million decrease due to the redemption of Evergy's $350.0 million of 4.85% Senior Notes in April 2021;

46

Table of Contents
•a $10.2 million decrease in interest expense on short-term borrowings primarily due to lower weighted-average interest rates for the Evergy Companies in 2021; and
•a $2.2 million net decrease due to the redemption of Evergy Kansas Central's $250.0 million of 5.10% first mortgage bonds (FMBs) in May 2020, which decreased interest expense by $6.8 million, partially offset by a $4.6 million increase due to the issuance of Evergy Kansas Central's $500.0 million of 3.45% FMBs in April 2020; partially offset by
•a $10.3 million increase due to the issuance in a private placement of Evergy Missouri West's $500.0 million of Series A, B and C Senior Notes in April 2021; and
•a $3.6 million increase due to the issuance of Evergy Metro's $400.0 million of 2.25% Mortgage Bonds in May 2020.
Income Tax Expense
Evergy's income tax expense increased $15.2 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $72.5 million increase due to higher Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro pre-tax income in 2021;
•a $6.6 million increase due to lower wind and other income tax credits in 2021, primarily driven by the expiration of production tax credits at Evergy Metro's Spearville 2 wind facility in the fourth quarter of 2020 and lower research and development tax credits in 2021;
•a $5.5 million increase due to lower expected COLI proceeds for 2021; and
•a $4.0 million increase due to higher non-deductible officer compensation in 2021; partially offset by
•a $43.9 million decrease as a result of the state of Kansas exempting certain public utilities, including Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro, from Kansas corporate income tax beginning in January 2021;
•a $15.6 million decrease due to flow-through items primarily driven by higher amortization of excess deferred income taxes at Evergy Kansas Central; and
•a $13.8 million decrease related to the revaluation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities in 2020 due to the change in Kansas corporate income tax rate.
See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the change in the Kansas corporate income tax rate.

EVERGY SIGNIFICANT BALANCE SHEET CHANGES
(December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020)
•Evergy's cash and cash equivalents decreased $118.7 million primarily due to the use of funds for capital expenditures at Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West, the repayment of certain short-term borrowings and other general corporate purposes.
•Evergy's receivables, net decreased $52.3 million primarily driven by a $21.5 million decrease in retail electric accounts receivable driven by lower sales in December 2021 due to unfavorable weather and a $13.6 million increase in the allowance for credit losses primarily driven by higher credit loss expense recognized in 2021 largely due to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and a lower level of actual write-offs incurred primarily due to timing as a result of customer support measures taken by Evergy during 2021 including disconnection moratoriums and payment plans.
•Evergy's accounts receivable pledged as collateral decreased $41.0 million primarily driven by Evergy's decrease in retail electric accounts receivable balances in December 2021, resulting in a lower level of retail electric receivables available for sale through Evergy's receivable sales facilities.
•Evergy's fuel and supplies inventory increased $62.2 million primarily driven by a $46.3 million increase in materials and supply inventory primarily due to an increase in transmission and distribution capital projects related to grid resiliency and other infrastructure improvement in addition to maintaining higher overall levels of inventory to mitigate longer supply chain lead times.

47

Table of Contents
•Evergy's income taxes receivable decreased by $34.9 million primarily due to Evergy's receipt of a $46.0 million federal alternative minimum tax (AMT) tax credit refund in the fourth quarter of 2021.
•Evergy's regulatory assets - current increased $217.9 million primarily driven by a $161.1 million increase at Evergy Kansas Central due to a $119.6 million increase related to Evergy Kansas Central's fuel recovery mechanism as a result of net under-collections and a $45.6 million increase related to deferred fuel and purchased power costs expected to be recovered in the next 12 months related to the February 2021 winter weather event; and a $54.6 million increase at Evergy Missouri West related to its fuel recovery mechanism as a result of net-under-collections.
•Evergy's other assets - current increased $51.7 million primarily due to a $31.4 million investment in an early-stage energy solutions company. See "Evergy Equity Investment" in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
•Evergy's nuclear decommissioning trust funds increased $116.6 million primarily driven by realized and unrealized gains on investments at Evergy Kansas Central's and Evergy Metro's nuclear decommissioning trusts.
•Evergy's collateralized note payable decreased $41.0 million primarily driven by Evergy's decrease in retail electric accounts receivable balances in December 2021, resulting in a lower level of retail electric receivables available for sale through Evergy's receivable sales facilities.
•Evergy's notes payable and commercial paper increased $844.3 million due to a $158.0 million increase at Evergy, Inc., a $356.0 million increase at Evergy Kansas Central and a $330.3 million increase at Evergy Missouri West primarily due to borrowings for capital expenditures, costs related to the February 2021 winter weather event and for general corporate purposes.
•Evergy's regulatory liabilities - current increased $44.6 million primarily due to $34.0 million of deferred wholesale revenues at Evergy Metro expected to be refunded to customers in the next 12 months related to the February 2021 winter weather event.
•Evergy's pension and post-retirement liability decreased $270.3 million primarily due to a decrease in benefit obligations driven by $284.0 million of pension settlements in 2021 as a result of accelerated pension distributions as a result of employee retirements and annuity purchases for certain plan participants.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Evergy relies primarily upon cash from operations, short-term borrowings, debt and equity issuances and its existing cash and cash equivalents to fund its capital requirements. Evergy's capital requirements primarily consist of capital expenditures, payment of contractual obligations and other commitments and the payment of dividends to shareholders.
Capital Sources
Cash Flows from Operations
Evergy's cash flows from operations are driven by the regulated sale of electricity. These cash flows are relatively stable but the timing and level of these cash flows can vary based on weather and economic conditions, future regulatory proceedings, the timing of cash payments made for costs recoverable under regulatory mechanisms and the time such costs are recovered, and unanticipated expenses such as unplanned plant outages and storms. Evergy's cash flows from operations were $1,351.7 million, $1,753.8 million and $1,749.0 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Short-Term Borrowings
As of December 31, 2021, Evergy had $1.3 billion of available borrowing capacity under its master credit facility. The available borrowing capacity under the master credit facility consisted of $341.3 million for Evergy, Inc., $343.9 million for Evergy Kansas Central, $350.0 million for Evergy Metro and $304.7 million for Evergy Missouri West. The Evergy Companies' borrowing capacity under the master credit facility also supports their issuance of

48

Table of Contents
commercial paper. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the master credit facility.
Along with cash flows from operations and receivable sales facilities, Evergy generally uses borrowings under its master credit facility and the issuance of commercial paper to meet its day-to-day cash flow requirements. Evergy believes that its existing cash on hand and available borrowing capacity under its master credit facility provide sufficient liquidity for its existing capital requirements.
Long-Term Debt and Equity Issuances
From time to time, Evergy issues long-term debt and equity to repay short-term debt, refinance maturing long-term debt and finance growth. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, Evergy’s capital structure, excluding short-term debt, was as follows:

------------------------------ ----------- ----
 December 31
 2021 2020
Common equity 49% 47%
Long-term debt, including VIEs 51% 53%

Under stipulations with the MPSC and KCC, Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro are required to maintain common equity at not less than 35%, 40% and 40%, respectively, of total capitalization. The master credit facility and certain debt instruments of the Evergy Companies also contain restrictions that require the maintenance of certain capitalization and leverage ratios. As of December 31, 2021, the Evergy Companies were in compliance with these covenants.
Significant Debt Issuances
See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding significant debt issuances.
Equity Issuance
See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding Evergy's securities purchase agreement with Bluescape to purchase Evergy's common stock in 2021.
Credit Ratings
The ratings of the Evergy Companies' debt securities by the credit rating agencies impact the Evergy Companies' liquidity, including the cost of borrowings under their master credit facility and in the capital markets. The Evergy Companies view maintenance of strong credit ratings as vital to their access to and cost of debt financing and, to that end, maintain an active and ongoing dialogue with the agencies with respect to results of operations, financial position and future prospects. While a decrease in these credit ratings would not cause any acceleration of the Evergy Companies' debt, it could increase interest charges under the master credit facility. A decrease in credit ratings could also have, among other things, an adverse impact, which could be material, on the Evergy Companies' access to capital, the cost of funds, the ability to recover actual interest costs in state regulatory proceedings, the type and amounts of collateral required under supply agreements and Evergy's ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries.

49

Table of Contents
As of February 24, 2022, the major credit rating agencies rated the Evergy Companies' securities as detailed in the following table.

----------------------- -------------------- ------ ---------- --------
 Moody's S&P Global
 Investors Service(a) Ratings(a)
Evergy
Outlook Stable Negative
Corporate Credit Rating -- A-
Senior Unsecured Debt Baa2 BBB+
Short-Term Rating P-2 A-2

Evergy Kansas Central
Outlook Stable Negative
Corporate Credit Rating Baa1 A-
Senior Secured Debt A2 A
Commercial Paper P-2 A-2

Evergy Kansas South
Outlook Stable Negative
Corporate Credit Rating Baa1 A-
Senior Secured Debt A2 A
Short-Term Rating P-2 A-2

Evergy Metro
Outlook Stable Negative
Corporate Credit Rating Baa1 A
Senior Secured Debt A2 A+
Senior Unsecured Debt -- A
Commercial Paper P-2 A-1

Evergy Missouri West
Outlook Stable Negative
Corporate Credit Rating Baa2 A-
Senior Unsecured Debt Baa2 A-
Commercial Paper P-2 --

(a)A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency.
Shelf Registration Statements and Regulatory Authorizations
Evergy
In September 2021, Evergy filed an automatic shelf registration statement providing for the sale of unlimited amounts of securities with the SEC, which expires in September 2024.

Evergy Kansas Central
In September 2021, Evergy Kansas Central filed an automatic shelf registration statement providing for the sale of unlimited amounts of unsecured debt securities and FMBs with the SEC, which expires in September 2024.
Evergy Metro
In September 2021, Evergy Metro filed an automatic shelf registration statement providing for the sale of unlimited amounts of unsecured notes and mortgage bonds with the SEC, which expires in September 2024.

50

Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the regulatory short-term and long-term debt financing authorizations for Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Kansas South, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West and the remaining amount available under these authorizations as of December 31, 2021.

------------------------------------------- ---------- --------------- -------------------- ----------------------------- ------- - -------
Type of Authorization Commission Expiration Date Authorization Amount Available Under Authorization
Evergy Kansas Central & Evergy Kansas South (in millions)
Short-Term Debt FERC December 2022 $ 1,250.0 $ 844.0
Evergy Metro
Short-Term Debt FERC December 2022 $ 1,250.0 $ 1,250.0
Evergy Missouri West
Short-Term Debt FERC December 2022 $ 750.0 $ 199.7
Long-Term Debt FERC February 2023 $ 1,000.0 $ 500.0

In addition to the above regulatory authorizations, the Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Kansas South and Evergy Metro mortgages each contain provisions restricting the amount of FMBs or mortgage bonds, as applicable, that can be issued by each entity. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Kansas South and Evergy Metro must comply with these restrictions prior to the issuance of additional FMBs, mortgage bonds or other secured indebtedness.
Under the Evergy Kansas Central mortgage, the issuance of FMBs is subject to limitations based on the amount of bondable property additions. In addition, so long as any bonds issued prior to January 1, 1997, remain outstanding, the mortgage prohibits additional FMBs from being issued, except in connection with certain refundings, unless Evergy Kansas Central’s unconsolidated net earnings available for interest, depreciation and property retirement (which, as defined, does not include earnings or losses attributable to the ownership of securities of subsidiaries), for a period of 12 consecutive months within 15 months preceding the issuance, are not less than the greater of twice the annual interest charges on or 10% of the principal amount of all FMBs outstanding after giving effect to the proposed issuance. As of December 31, 2021, $998.9 million principal amount of additional FMBs could be issued under the most restrictive provisions in the mortgage, except in connection with certain refundings.
Under the Evergy Kansas South mortgage, the amount of FMBs authorized is limited to a maximum of $3.5 billion and the issuance of FMBs is subject to limitations based on the amount of bondable property additions. In addition, the mortgage prohibits additional FMBs from being issued, except in connection with certain refundings, unless Evergy Kansas South's net earnings before income taxes and before provision for retirement and depreciation of property for a period of 12 consecutive months within 15 months preceding the issuance are not less than either two and one-half times the annual interest charges on or 10% of the principal amount of all Evergy Kansas South FMBs outstanding after giving effect to the proposed issuance. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $2,828.6 million principal amount of additional Evergy Kansas South FMBs could be issued under the most restrictive provisions in the mortgage, except in connection with certain refundings.

Under the General Mortgage Indenture and Deed of Trust dated as of December 1, 1986, as supplemented (Evergy Metro Mortgage Indenture), additional Evergy Metro mortgage bonds may be issued on the basis of 75% of property additions or retired bonds. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $5,075.8 million principal amount of additional Evergy Metro mortgage bonds could be issued under the most restrictive provisions in the mortgage.

Cash and Cash Equivalents
At December 31, 2021, Evergy had approximately $26.2 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand.

51

Table of Contents
Capital Requirements
Capital Expenditures
Evergy requires significant capital investments and expects to need cash for its long-term strategy of transitioning its generation fleet to be more sustainable by reducing CO2 emissions as well as executing other utility construction programs designed to improve reliability and expand facilities related to providing electric service, which include, but are not limited to, expenditures to develop new transmission lines and improvements to power plants, transmission and distribution lines and equipment. See "Executive Summary - Strategy", above for further information regarding Evergy's strategy. Evergy's capital expenditures were $1,972.5 million, $1,560.3 million and $1,210.1 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Capital expenditures projected for the next five years, excluding AFUDC and including costs of removal, are detailed in the following table. This capital expenditure plan is subject to continual review and change. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for information regarding potential risks to Evergy's capital expenditure plan.

------------------------------------------------ ---------- ----- ------- ---- ----- ---- ------- ----- ---- ------- ----- ------- - -------
 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
 (millions)
Generating facilities - new renewable generation $ — $ 258.0 $ 450.0 $ 750.0 $ 500.0
Generating facilities - other 331.0 337.0 223.0 250.0 216.0
Transmission facilities 626.0 600.0 591.0 592.0 679.0
Distribution facilities 655.0 652.0 549.0 595.0 632.0
General facilities 364.0 270.0 194.0 182.0 173.0
Total capital expenditures $ 1,976.0 $ 2,117.0 $ 2,007.0 $ 2,369.0 $ 2,200.0

Significant Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments
In the course of its business activities, the Evergy Companies enter into a variety of contracts and commercial commitments. Some of these result in direct obligations reflected on Evergy's consolidated balance sheets while others are commitments, some firm and some based on uncertainties, not reflected in Evergy's underlying consolidated financial statements.
The information in the following table is provided to summarize Evergy's significant cash obligations and commercial commitments.

------------------------------------------- ---------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- ---- ---------- ----- ----- ----- ------- - ----- ------- - ------- - -------
Payment due by period 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 After 2026 Total
Long-term debt (millions)
Principal $ 387.5 $ 439.5 $ 800.0 $ 636.0 $ 350.0 $ 7,056.8 $ 9,669.8
Interest 340.3 323.1 311.4 291.6 271.0 3,741.2 5,278.6

Pension and other post-retirement plans (a) 95.1 95.1 95.1 95.1 95.1 (a) 475.5
Purchase commitments
Fuel 403.1 183.5 130.2 100.4 106.7 221.1 1,145.0
Power 63.0 63.6 58.0 58.4 58.4 294.2 595.6

(a)    Evergy expects to make contributions to the pension and other post-retirement plans beyond 2026 but the amounts are not yet determined.
Long-term debt includes current maturities. Long-term debt principal excludes $80.5 million of unamortized net discounts and debt issuance costs and a $97.9 million fair value adjustment recorded in connection with purchase accounting for the Great Plains Energy and Evergy Kansas Central merger that was completed in 2018. Variable rate interest obligations are based on rates as of December 31, 2021.
Evergy expects to contribute $95.1 million to the pension and other post-retirement plans in 2022, of which the majority is expected to be paid by Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro. Additional contributions to the plans are expected beyond 2026 in amounts at least sufficient to meet the greater of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) or regulatory funding requirements; however, these amounts have not yet been determined. Amounts for years after 2022 are estimates based on information available in determining the

52

Table of Contents
amount for 2022. Actual amounts for years after 2022 could be significantly different than the estimated amounts in the table above.
Fuel commitments consist of commitments for nuclear fuel, coal and coal transportation costs. Power commitments consist of certain commitments for renewable energy under power purchase agreements, capacity purchases and firm transmission service.
At December 31, 2021, Evergy has other insignificant commitments as well as other insignificant long-term liabilities recorded on its consolidated balance sheet, which are not included in the table above.
Common Stock Dividends
The amount and timing of dividends payable on Evergy's common stock are within the sole discretion of the Evergy Board. The amount and timing of dividends declared by the Evergy Board will be dependent on considerations such as Evergy's earnings, financial position, cash flows, capitalization ratios, regulation, reinvestment opportunities and debt covenants. Evergy targets a long-term dividend payout ratio of 60% to 70% of earnings. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the common stock dividend declared by the Evergy Board in February 2022.
The Evergy Companies also have certain restrictions stemming from statutory requirements, corporate organizational documents, covenants and other conditions that could affect dividend levels. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of restrictions on dividend payments.
Cash Flows
The following table presents Evergy's cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities.

---------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- - -------

 2021 2020
 (millions)
Cash flows from operating activities $ 1,351.7 $ 1,753.8
Cash flows used in investing activities (1,913.8) (1,533.7)
Cash flows from (used in) financing activities 443.4 (98.4)

Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Evergy's cash flows from operating activities decreased $402.1 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•$365.5 million of cash payments for net fuel and purchased power costs during the February 2021 winter weather event;
•a $182.3 million increase in cash payments in 2021 primarily due to the timing of payments made to taxing authorities for property tax payments as well as various suppliers and service providers for goods and services purchased in the ordinary course of business; and
•$35.4 million in payments made for a Wolf Creek refueling outage in 2021; partially offset by
•a $194.9 million increase in cash receipts for retail electric sales in 2021 primarily driven by favorable weather and an increase in weather-normalized commercial and industrial demand; and
•$89.9 million of cash receipts related to non-regulated energy marketing margins earned during the February 2021 winter weather event.
Cash Flows used in Investing Activities
Evergy's cash flows used in investing activities increased $380.1 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $412.2 million increase in additions to property, plant and equipment due to increases at Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West of $116.7 million, $117.5 million and $176.6 million,

53

Table of Contents
respectively, primarily due to increased spending for a variety of capital projects including transmission and distribution projects related to grid resiliency and other infrastructure improvements; partially offset by
•an increase of $11.1 million in proceeds from COLI investments at Evergy Kansas Central due to a higher number of policy settlements in 2021.
Cash Flows from (used in) Financing Activities
Evergy's cash flows from (used in) financing activities increased $541.8 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $1,087.4 million increase in short-term debt borrowings primarily driven by:
◦a $553.2 million increase at Evergy Kansas Central primarily due to the repayment of $199.2 million of commercial paper in 2020 and increased borrowing in 2021 driven by $133.9 million of fuel and purchased power costs related to the February 2021 winter weather event and higher cash capital expenditures in 2021; and
◦a $357.8 million increase at Evergy Missouri West primarily due to $296.4 million of fuel and purchased power costs related to the February 2021 winter weather event, the repayment of $80.9 million of Evergy Missouri West's 8.27% Senior Notes in November 2021 and higher cash capital expenditures in 2021; and
•$112.5 million of Evergy common stock issued in April 2021 pursuant to a securities purchase agreement with an affiliate of Bluescape; partially offset by
•a $391.5 million decrease in proceeds from long-term debt, net due to Evergy Kansas Central's issuance of $500.0 million of 3.45% FMBs in April 2020 and Evergy Metro's issuance of $400.0 million of 2.25% Mortgage Bonds in May 2020; partially offset by Evergy Missouri West's issuance of $500.0 million of Series A, B and C Senior Notes in April 2021;
•a $180.9 million increase in retirements of long-term debt, net due to Evergy's repayment of $350.0 million of 4.85% Senior Notes in April 2021 and Evergy Missouri West's repayment of $80.9 million of 8.27% Senior Notes in November 2021; partially offset by Evergy Kansas Central's repayment of $250.0 million of 5.10% FMBs in May 2020; and
•a $7.5 million increase in the repayment of borrowings against cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance primarily due to a higher number of policy settlements in 2021.

54

Table of Contents
EVERGY KANSAS CENTRAL, INC.
MANAGEMENT'S NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The below results of operations and related discussion for Evergy Kansas Central is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) to Form 10-K.
The following table summarizes Evergy Kansas Central's comparative results of operations.

------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------- ------- ------ ------- ---- ----- ------ - -------
 2021 Change 2020
 (millions)
Operating revenues $ 2,847.3 $ 429.2 $ 2,418.1
Fuel and purchased power 638.7 211.1 427.6
SPP network transmission costs 290.4 27.2 263.2
Operating and maintenance 530.8 17.2 513.6
Depreciation and amortization 467.2 14.1 453.1
Taxes other than income tax 203.9 10.6 193.3
Income from operations 716.3 149.0 567.3
Other expense, net (7.6) 5.1 (12.7)
Interest expense 160.3 (7.3) 167.6
Income tax expense 51.7 (104.1) 155.8
Equity in earnings of equity method investees, net of income taxes 4.0 (0.6) 4.6
Net income 500.7 264.9 235.8
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 12.2 0.5 11.7
Net income attributable to Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. $ 488.5 $ 264.4 $ 224.1

Evergy Kansas Central Utility Gross Margin and MWh Sales
The following table summarizes Evergy Kansas Central's utility gross margin and MWhs sold.

------------------------------ --------------------- ----------- ------ ------- ---- ----- ------- ------ ------ ---- --- ----- --- ------ -----
 Revenues and Expenses MWhs Sold
 2021 Change 2020 2021 Change 2020
Retail revenues (millions) (thousands)
Residential $ 824.1 $ 22.9 $ 801.2 6,565 74 6,491
Commercial 694.1 28.5 665.6 7,112 237 6,875
Industrial 391.7 11.8 379.9 5,533 291 5,242
Other retail revenues 17.1 (0.6) 17.7 40 (1) 41
Total electric retail 1,927.0 62.6 1,864.4 19,250 601 18,649
Wholesale revenues 453.1 237.7 215.4 10,175 2,324 7,851
Transmission revenues 322.9 35.6 287.3 N/A N/A N/A
Other revenues 144.3 93.3 51.0 N/A N/A N/A
Operating revenues 2,847.3 429.2 2,418.1 29,425 2,925 26,500
Fuel and purchased power (638.7) (211.1) (427.6)
SPP network transmission costs (290.4) (27.2) (263.2)
Utility gross margin (a) 1,918.2 190.9 1,727.3
Operating and maintenance (530.8) (17.2) (513.6)
Depreciation and amortization (467.2) (14.1) (453.1)
Taxes other than income tax (203.9) (10.6) (193.3)
Income from operations $ 716.3 $ 149.0 $ 567.3

(a)Utility gross margin is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See explanation of utility gross margin under Evergy's Results of Operations.

55

Table of Contents
Evergy Kansas Central's utility gross margin increased $190.9 million in 2021, compared to 2020, driven by:
•$94.5 million of non-regulated energy marketing margins recognized during the February 2021 winter weather event;
•a $42.9 million increase primarily due to higher retail sales driven by favorable weather (cooling degree days increased by 5%, partially offset by a 3% decrease in heating degree days) and an increase in weather-normalized commercial and industrial demand;
•a $35.6 million increase in transmission revenue primarily due to updated transmission costs reflected in Evergy Kansas Central's FERC TFR effective in January 2021;
•a $33.8 million increase due to other impacts from the February 2021 winter weather event driven by higher utility gross margin at Evergy Kansas Central's non-regulated 8% ownership share of JEC due to higher wholesale sales prices and MWhs sold in February 2021; and
•a $5.7 million increase related to Evergy Kansas Central's TDC rider in 2021; partially offset by
•a $21.6 million decrease in revenues due to rate reductions beginning January 1, 2021, in Kansas to reflect the exemption of Evergy Kansas Central from Kansas corporate income taxes.
Evergy Kansas Central Operating and Maintenance
Evergy Kansas Central's operating and maintenance expense increased $17.2 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $22.9 million increase in various administrative and general operating and maintenance expenses driven by an increase in costs billed for common use assets from Evergy Metro in 2021 primarily related to software assets placed into service in the third quarter of 2020;
•$7.9 million of costs related to non-regulated energy marketing margins recognized during the February 2021 winter weather event;
•$7.6 million of costs associated with executive transition in 2021, including inducement bonuses, severance agreements and other transition expenses;
•a $6.3 million increase in plant operating and maintenance expense at fossil-fuel generating units primarily driven by a major maintenance outage at JEC in 2021 and higher material and supplies costs;
•a $3.5 million increase in advisor expenses incurred in 2021 associated with strategic planning; and
•a $1.4 million increase in property insurance expense due to a lower annual refund of nuclear insurance premiums received by Evergy Kansas Central in 2021 related to its ownership interest in Wolf Creek; partially offset by
•a $31.2 million decrease in voluntary severance expenses due to a $27.4 million decrease related to Evergy voluntary exit programs in 2020 and $3.8 million decrease in voluntary severance expenses related to Wolf Creek voluntary exit programs in 2020; and
•a $4.8 million decrease in various transmission and distribution operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to lower labor and contractor costs primarily driven by a higher mix of transmission capital projects in 2021.
Evergy Kansas Central Depreciation and Amortization
Evergy Kansas Central's depreciation and amortization expense increased $14.1 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by higher capital additions in 2021.
Evergy Kansas Central Other Expense, Net
Evergy Kansas Central's other expense, net decreased $5.1 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $5.8 million decrease due to higher equity AFUDC primarily driven by higher construction work in progress balances in 2021; and

56

Table of Contents
•$2.8 million of other income recorded in 2021 related to contract termination fees; partially offset by
•$4.8 million of lower COLI benefits in 2021.
Evergy Kansas Central Interest Expense
Evergy Kansas Central's interest expense decreased $7.3 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $6.4 million decrease in interest expense on short-term borrowings primarily due to lower weighted-average interest rates in 2021; and
•a $2.2 million net decrease due to the redemption of Evergy Kansas Central's $250.0 million of 5.10% FMBs in May 2020, which decreased interest expense by $6.8 million, partially offset by a $4.6 million increase due to the issuance of Evergy Kansas Central's $500.0 million of 3.45% FMBs in April 2020.
Evergy Kansas Central Income Tax Expense
Evergy Kansas Central's income tax expense decreased $104.1 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $109.0 million net decrease due to the revaluation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the second quarter of 2020 due to the change in the Kansas corporate income tax rate;
•a $30.2 million decrease as a result of the state of Kansas exempting certain public utilities, including Evergy Kansas Central, from Kansas corporate income tax beginning in January 2021; and
•a $15.7 million decrease due to flow-through items primarily driven by higher amortization of excess deferred income taxes; partially offset by
•a $42.7 million increase due to higher pre-tax income in 2021;
•a $5.1 million increase due to lower expected COLI proceeds for 2021; and
•a $1.5 million increase due to lower wind and other income tax credits in 2021.
See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the change in the Kansas corporate income tax rate.

EVERGY METRO, INC.
MANAGEMENT'S NARRATIVE ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The below results of operations and related discussion for Evergy Metro is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) to Form 10-K.
The following table summarizes Evergy Metro's comparative results of operations.

----------------------------- ---------- ------- ------ ------ ---- ----- ------ - -------
 2021 Change 2020
 (millions)
Operating revenues $ 1,913.7 $ 208.1 $ 1,705.6
Fuel and purchased power 613.5 197.4 416.1
Operating and maintenance 365.4 (42.1) 407.5
Depreciation and amortization 321.0 (5.1) 326.1
Taxes other than income tax 126.2 4.6 121.6
Income from operations 487.6 53.3 434.3
Other expense, net (13.1) 1.8 (14.9)
Interest expense 109.8 (3.8) 113.6
Income tax expense 52.4 45.3 7.1
Net income $ 312.3 $ 13.6 $ 298.7

57

Table of Contents
Evergy Metro Utility Gross Margin and MWh Sales
The following table summarizes Evergy Metro's utility gross margin and MWhs sold.

----------------------------- --------------------- ----- ----------- ------- ------ ---- ------- - ------ ------ ---- ----- ----- --- -- ------ -----
 Revenues and Expenses MWhs Sold
 2021 Change 2020 2021 Change 2020
Retail revenues (millions) (thousands)
Residential $ 691.9 (22.8) $ 714.7 5,517 87 5,430
Commercial 713.3 (3.8) 717.1 7,286 258 7,028
Industrial 122.0 (6.8) 128.8 1,669 (26) 1,695
Other retail revenues 9.2 (2.5) 11.7 70 (1) 71
Total electric retail 1,536.4 (35.9) 1,572.3 14,542 318 14,224
Wholesale revenues 242.6 207.6 35.0 5,523 (434) 5,957
Transmission revenues 17.1 3.2 13.9 N/A N/A N/A
Other revenues 117.6 33.2 84.4 N/A N/A N/A
Operating revenues 1,913.7 208.1 1,705.6 20,065 (116) 20,181
Fuel and purchased power (613.5) (197.4) (416.1)
Utility gross margin (a) 1,300.2 10.7 1,289.5
Operating and maintenance (365.4) 42.1 (407.5)
Depreciation and amortization (321.0) 5.1 (326.1)
Taxes other than income tax (126.2) (4.6) (121.6)
Income from operations $ 487.6 $ 42.6 $ 434.3

(a) Utility gross margin is a non-GAAP financial measure.  See explanation of utility gross margin under Evergy's Results of Operations.
Evergy Metro's utility gross margin increased $10.7 million in 2021, compared to 2020, driven by:
•a $30.7 million increase primarily due to higher retail sales driven by favorable weather (cooling degree days increased 20%, partially offset by a 5% decrease in heating degree days), partially offset by a decrease in weather-normalized residential and industrial demand; partially offset by
•an $11.4 million decrease due to impacts from the February 2021 winter weather event primarily driven by jurisdictional allocation differences currently present between Evergy Metro's fuel recovery mechanisms in Missouri and Kansas regarding its refund to customers for the net increase in wholesale revenues in February 2021; and
•an $8.6 million decrease in revenues due to a rate reduction beginning January 1, 2021, in Kansas to reflect Evergy Metro's exemption from Kansas corporate income taxes.
Evergy Metro Operating and Maintenance
Evergy Metro's operating and maintenance expense decreased $42.1 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $23.5 million decrease in voluntary severance expenses due to a $19.7 million decrease related to Evergy voluntary exit programs in 2020 and a $3.8 million decrease in voluntary severance expenses related to Wolf Creek voluntary exit programs in 2020; and
•a $20.6 million decrease in various administrative and general operating and maintenance expenses driven by an increase in costs billed for common use assets to Evergy Kansas Central in 2021 primarily related to software assets placed into service in the third quarter of 2020; partially offset by
•$2.1 million of costs associated with executive transition in 2021, including inducement bonuses, severance agreements and other transition expenses; and
•a $1.3 million increase in property insurance expense due to a lower annual refund of nuclear insurance premiums received in 2021 by Evergy Metro related to its ownership interest in Wolf Creek.

58

Table of Contents
Evergy Metro Interest Expense
Evergy Metro's interest expense decreased $3.8 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to lower interest expense on short-term borrowings driven by lower weighted-average interest rates and lower commercial paper balances in 2021.
Evergy Metro Income Tax Expense
Evergy Metro's income tax expense increased $45.3 million in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily driven by:
•a $32.2 million increase related to the revaluation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the second quarter of 2020 due to the change in the Kansas corporate income tax rate;
•a $15.1 million increase due to higher pre-tax income in 2021;
•a $5.0 million increase due to lower wind and other income tax credits in 2021, primarily driven by the expiration of production tax credits at the Spearville 2 wind facility in the fourth quarter of 2020 and lower research and development tax credits in 2021; and
•a $2.8 million increase due to higher non-deductible officer compensation in 2021; partially offset by
•a $14.1 million decrease as a result of the state of Kansas exempting certain public utilities, including Evergy Metro from Kansas corporate income tax beginning in January 2021.
See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the change in the Kansas corporate income tax rate.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[See Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[See Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[See Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[See Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[See Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Notes 1 and 4]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

['S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following combined MD&A should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in this combined annual report on Form 10-K. None of the registrants make any representation as to information related solely to Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central or Evergy Metro other than itself.

The following MD&A generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 can be found in MD&A in Part II, Item 7, of the Evergy Companies']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[" in Part I, Item 1., Business, for additional information.
See "]:
Item 1 Business 1

[" and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information.
Regulatory Proceedings
In January 2022, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West filed applications with the MPSC to request increases to their retail electric revenues of $43.9 million and $27.7 million, respectively, before rebasing fuel and purchased power expense, with a return on equity of 10%. The requests reflect increases related to higher property taxes and the recovery of infrastructure investments made to improve reliability and enhance customer service and were also partially offset by significant customer savings and cost reductions created since the Great Plains Energy and Evergy Kansas Central merger in 2018. Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are also requesting the implementation of tracking mechanisms for both property tax expense and credit loss expense and the creation of a storm reserve as part of their requests with the MPSC.
See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Missouri rate cases in addition to information on other regulatory proceedings.

35

Table of Contents
Evergy Equity Investment
From time to time, Evergy makes limited equity investments in early-stage energy solution companies. These investments have historically not had a significant impact on Evergy']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

['s common stock and a warrant that was completed in April 2021.
Impact of COVID-19
See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on the Evergy Companies.
Earnings Overview
The following table summarizes Evergy']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

['s operations, the related regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless an appropriate regulatory recovery mechanism were provided. Additionally, these factors could result in an impairment on utility plant assets. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Impairments of Assets and Goodwill
Long-lived assets are required to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable as prescribed under GAAP.
Accounting rules require goodwill to be tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs indicating the possibility that an impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test consists of comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill, to identify potential impairment. In the event that the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the carrying amount of the reporting unit and its fair value. Evergy']:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

['s Spearville 2 wind facility in the fourth quarter of 2020 and lower research and development tax credits in 2021;
•a $5.5 million increase due to lower expected COLI proceeds for 2021; and
•a $4.0 million increase due to higher non-deductible officer compensation in 2021; partially offset by
•a $43.9 million decrease as a result of the state of Kansas exempting certain public utilities, including Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Metro, from Kansas corporate income tax beginning in January 2021;
•a $15.6 million decrease due to flow-through items primarily driven by higher amortization of excess deferred income taxes at Evergy Kansas Central; and
•a $13.8 million decrease related to the revaluation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities in 2020 due to the change in Kansas corporate income tax rate.
See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the change in the Kansas corporate income tax rate.

EVERGY SIGNIFICANT BALANCE SHEET CHANGES
(December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020)
•Evergy']:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

['s capital expenditures were $1,972.5 million, $1,560.3 million and $1,210.1 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Capital expenditures projected for the next five years, excluding AFUDC and including costs of removal, are detailed in the following table. This capital expenditure plan is subject to continual review and change. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for information regarding potential risks to Evergy']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

['s unbilled revenue estimate is affected by factors including fluctuations in energy demand, weather, line losses and changes in the composition of customer classes. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for the balance of unbilled receivables for Evergy as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
Regulatory Assets and Liabilities
Evergy has recorded assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets resulting from the effects of the ratemaking process, which would not otherwise be recorded under GAAP. Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that are probable of recovery from future revenues. Regulatory liabilities represent future reductions in revenues or refunds to customers.
Management regularly assesses whether regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of future recovery or refund by considering factors such as decisions by the MPSC, KCC or FERC in Evergy']:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

['s consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Actual results could differ from these estimates for a variety of reasons including changes in income tax laws, enacted tax rates and results of audits by taxing authorities. This process also requires management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact from which actual results may differ. Evergy records valuation allowances on deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Asset Retirement Obligations
Evergy has recognized legal obligations associated with the disposal of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development or normal operation of such assets. Concurrent with the recognition of the liability, the estimated cost of the ARO incurred at the time the related long-lived assets were either acquired, placed in service or when regulations establishing the obligation became effective is also recorded to property, plant and equipment, net on the consolidated balance sheets. The recording of AROs for regulated operations has no income statement impact due to the deferral of the adjustments through the establishment of a regulatory asset or an offset to a regulatory liability.
Evergy initially recorded AROs at fair value for the estimated cost to decommission Wolf Creek (94% indirect share), retire wind generating facilities, dispose of asbestos insulating material at its power plants, remediate ash disposal ponds and close ash landfills, among other items. ARO refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement may be conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. In determining Evergy']:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...
