================================================================================
CIK: 0001097864
Company Name: ON SEMICONDUCTOR CORP
Filing Date: 2022-02-14
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 02:28:44
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk, uncertainties, and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed in "Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Executive Overview

This executive overview presents summarized information regarding our business and operating trends only. For further information relating to the information summarized herein, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its entirety.

onsemi Results

Our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $6,739.8 million, an increase of 28.3% from $5,255.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was attributable to the improving economic conditions and an exceptionally strong market for semiconductor products resulting in a significant increase in demand across PSG, ASG and ISG. During 2021, we reported net income attributable to onsemi of $1,009.6 million compared to $234.2 million in 2020. Our operating income totaled $1,287.6 million during 2021 compared to $348.7 million during 2020. The increase in operating income and net income attributable to onsemi was due to significantly better gross margins from higher sales volume, favorable mix, increase in average selling prices, better utilization in factories and savings from restructuring activities. Our gross margin increased by approximately 760 basis points to 40.3% in 2021 from 32.7% in 2020. See discussion under "Results of Operations" for additional discussion on the reasons for the fluctuations year over year.

Business and Macroeconomic Environment

The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures including restrictions on travel, business operations and temporary closures of facilities. However, during 2021, economic conditions began to improve and business conditions became stronger during the second half of the year. During 2021, we achieved revenue growth in our focused end-markets of automotive, industrial and communications infrastructure as well as expand our gross margin and operating margin as a result of cost-saving initiatives, product rationalization, favorable mix and price increases, among other actions. While the semiconductor industry conditions have resulted in increased costs throughout our supply chain, we have been able to pass a majority of such increases to our customers, which also contributed to higher revenue for 2021. We expect to continue to pursue cost-saving initiatives to be able to align our overall cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our expected revenue, spending and capacity levels to help offset increased costs. We have taken, and continue to take, significant cost containment efforts, including, but

31

not limited to, workforce reductions and reducing discretionary spending.

The ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s operational and financial performance is uncertain and will depend on many factors outside the Company’s control, including the timing, extent, trajectory and duration of the pandemic, the emergence of new variants, the development, availability, distribution and effectiveness of vaccines and treatments, the imposition of protective public safety measures, and the impact of the pandemic on the global economy and demand for products. While all our global manufacturing sites are currently operational, our facilities could be required to temporarily curtail production levels or temporarily cease operations based on government mandates due to the COVID-19 pandemic. There can be no assurances that we will adequately forecast the magnitude or duration of the adverse economic conditions on our business or that we will effectively align our cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our revenue, spending and capacity levels in the future.

See Note 7: ''Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges, net'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information relating to our most recent cost-saving initiatives.

Results of Operations

A discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020 is included below. For a discussion and comparison of the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 with the year ended December 31, 2019, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the SEC on February 16, 2021.

Operating Results

The following table summarizes certain information relating to our operating results that has been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in millions):

32

--------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ---- ------- - ------- ------ ------- - -------
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 Change
Revenue $ 6,739.8 $ 5,255.0 $ 1,484.8
Cost of revenue (exclusive of amortization shown below) 4,025.5 3,539.2 486.3
Gross profit 2,714.3 1,715.8 998.5
Operating expenses:
Research and development 655.0 642.9 12.1
Selling and marketing 293.6 278.7 14.9
General and administrative 304.8 258.7 46.1

Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 99.0 120.3 (21.3)
Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, net 71.4 65.2 6.2
Intangible asset impairment 2.9 1.3 1.6
Total operating expenses 1,426.7 1,367.1 59.6
Operating income 1,287.6 348.7 938.9
Other income (expense), net:
Interest expense (130.4) (168.4) 38.0
Interest income 1.4 4.9 (3.5)
Loss on debt refinancing and prepayment (29.0) — (29.0)
Gain on divestiture of business 10.2 — 10.2

Other income (expense) 18.0 (8.6) 26.6
Other income (expense), net (129.8) (172.1) 42.3
Income before income taxes 1,157.8 176.6 981.2
Income tax (provision) benefit (146.6) 59.8 (206.4)
Net income 1,011.2 236.4 774.8
Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (1.6) (2.2) 0.6
Net income attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation $ 1,009.6 $ 234.2 $ 775.4

Revenue

Revenue was $6,739.8 million and $5,255.0 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase from 2020 to 2021 of $1,484.8 million, or 28.3%, was attributable to a 32.0%, 25.6% and 22.0% increase in revenue in PSG, ASG and ISG, respectively, which is further explained below.

We had one customer, a distributor, whose revenue accounted for approximately 13% of the total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Revenue by operating and reportable segments was as follows (dollars in millions):

------------- ------- ------- -------------------- ---- ---- - -------------------- ------- ------- ---- - ---- -
 2021 As a % ofRevenue (1) 2020 As a % ofRevenue (1)
PSG $ 3,439.1 51.0 % $ 2,606.1 49.6 %
ASG 2,399.9 35.6 % 1,910.4 36.4 %
ISG 900.8 13.4 % 738.5 14.1 %
Total revenue $ 6,739.8 $ 5,255.0

_______________________

(1)Certain of the amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts.

Revenue from PSG

Revenue from PSG increased by $833.0 million, or approximately 32%, during 2021 compared to 2020. The revenue from our

33

Advanced Power Division and our Integrated Circuits, Protection and Signal Division increased by $521.7 million and $317.6 million, respectively. These increases primarily were driven by better economic conditions resulting in increased demand for our products along with a favorable mix in the products sold and an increase in average selling prices. Although we experienced supply chain constraints during 2021, they were offset by increased demand for our products, however in 2020, we experienced decreased demand, delays in fulfilling certain customer orders and certain of our factories operating at significantly reduced capacity levels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Revenue from ASG

Revenue from ASG increased by $489.5 million, or approximately 25.6%, during 2021 compared to 2020. The revenue from our Mobile, Computing and Cloud Division, our Automotive Division and our Industrial Solutions Division, increased by $230.3 million, $155.0 million and $110.2 million, respectively. The increases primarily were due to improved economic conditions resulting in increased demand for our products in other end-markets along with a favorable mix in the products sold and an increase in average selling prices. Although we experienced supply chain constraints during 2021, they were offset by increased demand for our products, however in 2020, we experienced decreased demand, delays in fulfilling certain customer orders and certain of our factories operating at significantly reduced capacity levels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Revenue from ISG

Revenue from ISG increased by $162.3 million, or approximately 22%, during 2021 compared to 2020. The revenue from our Automotive Sensing Division and our Industrial and Consumer Solutions Division increased by $152.5 million and $70.7 million, respectively, and was partially offset by a decrease of $61.0 million from the exited CCD business. The increase in revenue was due to the improvement in economic conditions, specifically with automotive component manufacturers and the automotive industry overall, resulting in increased demand for these products along with a favorable mix in the products sold and an increase in average selling prices.

Revenue by Geographic Location

Revenue by geographic location, based on sales billed from the respective country or regions, are as follows (dollars in millions):

-------------- ------- ------- -------------------- ---- ---- - -------------------- ------- ------- ---- - ---- -
 2021 As a % ofRevenue (1) 2020 As a % ofRevenue (1)
Singapore $ 2,097.8 31.1 % $ 1,799.5 34.2 %
Hong Kong 1,828.6 27.1 % 1,311.6 25.0 %
United Kingdom 1,123.6 16.7 % 805.9 15.3 %
United States 931.6 13.8 % 728.6 13.9 %
Other 758.2 11.2 % 609.4 11.6 %
Total $ 6,739.8 $ 5,255.0

_______________________

(1)Certain of the amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts.

Gross Profit and Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets)

Our gross profit by operating and reportable segment was as follows (dollars in millions):

------------------ ------- ------- ---------------------------- ---- ---- - -------- ----- ----------------------------- ------- ---- - ---- -
 2021 As a % ofSegment Revenue (1) 2020 (2) As a % of Segment Revenue (1)
PSG $ 1,318.3 38.3 % $ 764.1 29.3 %
ASG 1,055.6 44.0 % 714.4 37.4 %
ISG 340.4 37.8 % 237.3 32.1 %

Total gross profit $ 2,714.3 40.3 % $ 1,715.8 32.7 %

_______________________

(1)Certain of the amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts.
(2)Beginning in 2021, unallocated manufacturing costs were included as part of segment operating results to determine

34

segment gross profit. As a result, the prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-period presentation.

Our gross profit increased by $998.5 million, or approximately 58%, from $1,715.8 million during 2020 to $2,714.3 million during 2021. Gross margin increased to 40.3% during 2021 compared to 32.7% during 2020.

The increases in gross profit and gross margin were due to increases in sales volume, increased utilization and a better mix in the portfolio of the products sold combined with an increase in average selling prices for many of our products. The favorable economic environment and significant improvement in demand in all end-markets and specifically from automotive and industrial end-markets contributed to increased demand and better pricing for our products. We were also able to pass a majority of the increased cost from our suppliers to our customers.

Operating Expenses

Research and Development

Research and development expenses were $655.0 million and $642.9 million, or approximately 10% and 12% of revenue for 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing an increase of $12.1 million, or approximately 2% year-over-year. The increase in variable compensation was partially offset by a decrease in payroll expenses due to restructuring activities, and costs associated with third-party consultants.

Selling and Marketing

Selling and marketing expenses were $293.6 million and $278.7 million, or approximately 4% and 5% of revenue for 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing an increase of $14.9 million, or approximately 5% year-over-year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in variable compensation.

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses were $304.8 million and $258.7 million, or approximately 5% and 5% of revenue for 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing an increase of $46.1 million, or approximately 18% year-over-year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in variable compensation and stock compensation.

Amortization of Acquisition—Related Intangible Assets

Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $99.0 million and $120.3 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease of $21.3 million, or approximately 17.7%, was primarily due to the full amortization of certain of our technology-related intangible assets during 2020.

Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges, net

Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, net was $71.4 million and $65.2 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively. Amounts incurred during 2021 primarily related to the involuntary severance plan. Amounts incurred during 2020 related to the voluntary and involuntary severance plans and certain general workforce reductions. Included in 2020 was also asset impairment charges of $17.5 million.

For additional information, see Note 7: ''Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges, net'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Other Income and Expenses

Interest Expense

Interest expense decreased by $38.0 million, or approximately 22.6%, to $130.4 million during 2021 compared to $168.4 million in 2020, primarily due to the decrease in our long-term debt and a decrease in interest rates on our variable rate debt. Our average gross amount of long-term debt balance (including current maturities) during 2021 and 2020 was $3,423.9 million and $3,669.4 million, respectively. Our weighted average interest rate on our gross amount of long-term debt (including current maturities) was 3.8% and 4.6% per annum in 2021 and 2020, respectively.

35

See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Key Financing and Capital Events" below and Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of our indebtedness and our refinancing activities.

Gain on Divestiture of Business

Gain on divestiture of business was $10.2 million in 2021, compared to zero in 2020, due to the divestiture of a business entity engaged in research and development.

Loss on Debt Refinancing and Prepayment

We recorded loss on debt refinancing and prepayment of $29.0 million during 2021 related to the partial repurchase or exchange of certain of the outstanding 1.625% Notes. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Key Financing and Capital Events" below and Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of our indebtedness and our refinancing activities. No such expenses were incurred during 2020.

Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) was an expense of $8.6 million in 2020 compared to an income of $18.0 million in 2021, reflecting a change of approximately 309.3%. During 2021, we recognized actuarial gains on our pension obligations of $21.4 million which was partially offset by miscellaneous adjustments of $4.6 million, compared to an actuarial loss of $4.0 million during 2020.

Income Tax Provision

We recorded an income tax provision of $146.6 million and a benefit of $59.8 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively.

The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2021 consisted primarily of $179.4 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, $3.6 million related to a discrete foreign tax rate change, $2.9 million related to return to provision adjustments and $3.4 million related to additional valuation allowance, partially offset by discrete benefits of $24.3 million relating to the release of uncertain tax positions in foreign jurisdictions for favorable audit results and lapse of statue, $6.9 million relating to net equity award windfalls and $11.5 million primarily relating to an increase in deferred tax assets expected to be realized in the foreseeable future due to the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary.

The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2020 consisted of discrete benefits of $63.0 million primarily due to the recognition of certain deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, related to the domestication of certain foreign subsidiaries and a benefit of $49.4 million related to the release of valuation allowance against certain state deferred tax assets. These benefits were partially offset by a provision of $43.9 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, a $2.3 million discrete provision relating to prior year uncertain tax positions, a discrete provision of $5.5 million relating to additional foreign valuation allowance, and $0.9 million of other discrete items.

For additional information, see Note 16: ''Income Taxes'' in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

This section includes a discussion and analysis of our cash requirements, contingencies, sources and uses of cash, operations, working capital and long-term assets and liabilities.

Contingencies

We are a party to a variety of agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify other parties for certain liabilities that arise out of or relate to the subject matter of the agreements. Some of the agreements entered into by us require us to indemnify the other party against losses, including, but not limited to, losses due to IP infringement, environmental contamination and other property damage, personal injury, our failure to comply with applicable laws, our negligence or willful misconduct or our breach of representations, warranties or covenants related to such matters as title to sold assets.

36

We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in economic damage, bodily injury or property damage. In addition, if any of our designed products are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. Depending on the significance of any particular customer and other relevant factors, we may agree to provide more favorable rights to such customer for valid defective product claims. We maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance policies that indemnify our directors and officers against various liabilities, including certain liabilities under the Exchange Act that might be incurred by any director or officer in his or her capacity as such.

While our future obligations under certain agreements may contain limitations on liability for indemnification, other agreements do not contain such limitations and under such agreements it is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under any of these indemnities have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we do not believe that any amounts that we may be required to pay under these indemnities in the future will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

See Note 13: ''Commitments and Contingencies'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for possible contingencies related to legal matters. See also "Business—Government Regulation" for information on certain environmental matters.

Sources and Uses of Cash

Our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $1,352.6 million as of December 31, 2021. We require cash to: (i) fund our operating expenses, working capital requirements, outlays for strategic acquisitions and investments, (ii) service our debt, including principal and interest; (iii) conduct research and development; (iv) incur capital expenditures; and (v) repurchase our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition and divestiture opportunities on a regular basis. During 2021, we completed the acquisition of GTAT. See Note 5: ''Acquisitions and Divestitures'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include:

•Changes in demand for our products, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pricing pressures, supply chain constraints, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, our ability to make progress on the achievement of our business strategy and sustainability goals, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business

•Our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time.

The following are some of the significant sources and uses of cash during 2021 outside of our operating activities and regular capital expenditures:
•Issuance of $805.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase $372.4 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 1.625% Notes for a total consideration of $506.5 million in cash and 5.4 million shares of the Company's common stock.
•Payment of $160.3 million for convertible note hedges and receipt of $93.8 million for the sale of warrants, both in relation to the issuance of the 0% Notes.
•Repayment of the outstanding balance of $700.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility.
•Repurchase of $47.4 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 1.625% Notes for $47.4 million in cash and 1.6 million shares of the Company's common stock.
•Acquisition of GTAT for $424.6 million in cash.
•Net purchases of available-for-sale securities for $44.7 million.
Our ability to service our long-term debt, including our 0% Notes, 3.875% Notes, 1.625% Notes, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan "B" Facility, to remain in compliance with the various covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to, among other things, our future operating performance and the timing of the full economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as to financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control.

37

If we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer-term objectives. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. We believe that cash flow from operating activities coupled with existing cash and cash equivalents and existing credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operating, debt repayment and capital needs, as well as enable us to maintain compliance with our various debt agreements, through at least the next 12 months. To the extent that results or events differ from our financial projections or business plans, our liquidity may be adversely impacted.

During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust our expenditures for inventory, operating expenditures and capital expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected sales and demand. Our capital expenditures are primarily directed towards manufacturing equipment, and can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. Our capital expenditure levels can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. For example, during 2021, we paid approximately $444.6 million for capital expenditures, while in 2020 we paid approximately $383.6 million. While our capital expenditures have historically been approximately 6% to 7% of annual revenue, we expect to incur capital expenditures in the range of 11% to 12% of revenue in 2022 to expand our manufacturing capabilities to meet the market demands and further improve our manufacturing cost structure.

As of December 31, 2021, there was $1,598.2 million outstanding under the Term Loan "B" Facility, in addition to $805 million aggregate principal amount of the 0% Notes, $700 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% Notes and $155.1 million aggregate principal amount of the 1.625% Notes. The aggregate principal amount of outstanding 1.625% Notes, net of unamortized discount and issuance costs, has been reclassified as a current portion of long-term debt. The associated interest expense related to this indebtedness will continue to have a significant impact on our results of operations.

See Note 5: ''Acquisitions and Divestitures'' and Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Cash Management

Our ability to manage cash is limited, as our primary cash inflows and outflows are dictated by the terms of our sales and supply agreements, contractual obligations, debt instruments and legal and regulatory requirements. While we have some flexibility with respect to the timing of capital equipment purchases, we must invest in capital equipment on a timely basis to allow us to maintain our manufacturing efficiency and support our platforms for new products.

Primary Cash Flow Sources

Our long-term cash generation is dependent on the ability of our operations to generate cash. Our cash flows from operating activities were $1,782.0 million, $884.3 million, and $694.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by $897.7 million, or 101.5%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, which was primarily due to better economic conditions resulting in significantly increased demand for our products, increase in average selling prices, better mix in the products sold, cash savings from restructuring activities and better working capital management.

Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and manufacturing and operating cost targets. Management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows, and each of these components is discussed below.

Working Capital

Working capital, calculated as total current assets less total current liabilities, fluctuates depending on end-market demand and our effective management of certain items such as receivables, inventory and payables. In times of escalating demand, our working capital requirements may be affected as we purchase additional manufacturing materials and increase production. Our working capital may also be affected by restructuring programs, which may require us to use cash for severance payments, asset transfers and contract termination costs. In addition, our working capital may be affected by acquisitions and transactions involving our convertible notes and other debt instruments. Although investments made to fund working capital will reduce our cash balances, these investments are necessary to support business and operating initiatives.

Our working capital, excluding cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $1,046.3 million as of December 31, 2021 and has fluctuated between $885.0 million and $1,057.1 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. Our working capital, including cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $2,238.2

38

million as of December 31, 2021 and has fluctuated between $1,457.6 million and $2,379.8 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. The significant fluctuation was due to the withdrawal and repayment on our Revolving Credit Facility during 2020 and 2021 as well as the reclassification of the 1.625% Notes as a current liability. We expect a significant increase in capital expenditures during 2022.

Long-Term Assets and Liabilities

Our long-term assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred taxes and goodwill. Our manufacturing rationalization plans have included efforts to utilize our existing manufacturing assets and supply arrangements more efficiently. We believe that near-term access to additional manufacturing capacity, should it be required, could be readily obtained on reasonable terms through manufacturing agreements with third parties. We will continue to look for opportunities to make strategic purchases in the future for additional capacity.

Our long-term liabilities, excluding long-term debt and deferred taxes, consist of liabilities under our foreign defined benefit pension plans, operating lease liabilities and contingent tax reserves. In regard to our foreign defined benefit pension plans, our annual funding of these obligations is equal to the minimum amount legally required in each jurisdiction in which the plans operate. This annual amount is dependent upon numerous actuarial assumptions. For additional information, see Note 12: ''Employee Benefit Plans'', "Note 8: ''Balance Sheet Information'' and Note 16: ''Income Taxes'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Key Financing and Capital Events

Overview

For the past several years, we have undertaken various measures to secure liquidity to pursue acquisitions, repurchase shares of our common stock, reduce interest costs, amend existing key financing arrangements and, in some cases, extend a portion of our debt maturities to continue to provide us additional operating flexibility. Certain of these measures continued in 2021. Set forth below is a summary of certain key financing events affecting our capital structure during the last three years. For further discussion of our debt instruments, see Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' and for further discussion on the Share Repurchase Program (as defined below), see Note 10: ''Earnings Per Share and Equity'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

2021 Financing Events

Issuance of 0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027

On May 19, 2021, we completed a private offering of $805.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0% Notes, the proceeds of which were used to repurchase a portion of the 1.625% Notes in privately negotiated note repurchase or exchange transactions, repay a portion of the Revolving Credit Facility, pay the net cost of the related convertible note hedges after such costs were offset by the proceeds from the related sale of warrants (each described below), and general corporate purposes. The 0% Notes will mature on May 1, 2027, unless earlier repurchased or redeemed by the Company or converted pursuant to their terms.

The initial conversion rate of the 0% Notes is 18.8796 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $52.97 per share of common stock. We may redeem all or any portion of the 0% Notes, the holders may convert their 0% Notes and the conversion rate is subject to adjustment, in each case upon the occurrence of certain specified events as set forth in the Indenture governing the 0% Notes. We incurred issuance costs of $19.0 million in connection with the issuance of the 0% Notes, of which $15.7 million was capitalized as debt issuance costs and $3.3 million was allocated to the conversion option and recorded to stockholders’ equity. The debt discount and debt issuance costs are being amortized at an effective interest rate of 3.2% over the contractual term of the 0% Notes.

In connection with the issuance of the 0% Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to our common stock with the initial purchasers of the 0% Notes or their affiliates ("Counterparties") and paid $160.3 million in cash for the convertible note hedges, which was recorded to stockholders’ equity. We also entered into warrant transactions with the Counterparties and received $93.8 million in cash for the sale of warrants, which was recorded to stockholders’ equity.

Partial exchange or repurchase of the 1.625% Notes

On May 11, 2021, contemporaneously with the issuance of the 0% Notes, we entered into separate privately negotiated transactions with certain holders of the 1.625% Notes to repurchase or exchange, as applicable, $372.4 million in aggregate

39

principal amount of the 1.625% Notes for a total consideration of $506.5 million in cash and 5.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock. On December 10, 2021, we repurchased $47.4 million of the 1.625% Notes for $47.4 million in cash and 1.6 million shares of common stock.

Repayments under the Revolving Credit Facility

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we repaid the outstanding balance of $700.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility using a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance of the 0% Notes and cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $1.97 billion available under the Revolving Credit Facility for future borrowings.

2020 Financing Events

Maturity and Settlement of 1.00% Notes due 2020

The 1.00% Notes matured on December 1, 2020. The maturity of the notes resulted in us paying $690.0 million in cash, representing the principal portion of the 1.00% Notes, to holders of the 1.00% Notes using our available cash and cash equivalents. The excess over the principal amount was settled by issuing shares of common stock held in treasury. At the time of issuance of the 1.00% Notes, we concurrently entered into hedge transactions with certain of the initial purchasers of the 1.00% Notes, and accordingly, repurchased an equivalent number of shares of our common stock at fair market value, to effectively offset the issuance of shares.

Also at the time of issuance of the 1.00% Notes, we sold warrants to certain bank counterparties whereby the holders of the warrants had the option to purchase from us the equivalent number of shares of our common stock at a price of $25.96 per share. All these warrants were exercised by the holders during the first and second quarters of 2021 and were settled by issuing an aggregate of 13.4 million shares of common stock.

Issuance of 3.875% Notes

On August 21, 2020, we completed a private offering of $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.875% Notes. The 3.875% Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.875% per year, payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on March 1, 2021, and will mature on September 1, 2028, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased by us. In connection with the issuance, we incurred original issue discount and debt issuance costs amounting to $9.4 million, which has been capitalized and will be amortized to interest expense through the maturity date of September 1, 2028. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 3.875% Notes were used entirely to repay borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.

Borrowing and repayment under the Revolving Credit Facility

On March 24, 2020, we borrowed $1,165.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility as a precautionary measure in order to increase the Company’s cash position and provide financial flexibility in light of the uncertainty resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to better macroeconomic and business conditions, on August 21, 2020, we used the net proceeds from the issuance of the 3.875% Notes along with cash on hand to repay $1,200.0 million of outstanding borrowings. Additionally, on December 31, 2020, we repaid $65.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.

Share Repurchase Program

During 2020, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $65.3 million pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program.

2019 Financing Events

Amendments to the Amended Credit Agreement

On June 12, 2019, we entered into the Fifth Amendment to the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Fifth Amendment") and on June 19, 2019, drew $900.0 million of the Revolving Credit Facility to partially fund the acquisition of Quantenna. On August 15, 2019, we entered into the Sixth Amendment to the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Sixth Amendment") which increased amounts that may be borrowed under the Revolving Credit Facility by $70.0 million to $1.97 billion. On September 19, 2019, we entered into the Seventh Amendment to the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Seventh Amendment") and utilized the additional borrowings pursuant to the Seventh Amendment to repay $500.5 million of the outstanding balance under the Revolving Credit Facility.

40

Share Repurchase Program

During 2019, we repurchased 7.8 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $138.9 million pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program.

Debt Guarantees and Related Covenants

As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the indentures relating to our 0% Notes, 3.875% Notes and 1.625% Notes and with covenants relating to our Term Loan "B" Facility and Revolving Credit Facility. Our 0% Notes, 3.875% Notes and 1.625% Notes are senior to the existing and future subordinated indebtedness of onsemi and our guarantor subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior debt and as unsecured obligations and are subordinated to all of our existing and future secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt.

See Note 9: ''Long-Term Debt'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. We utilize the following critical accounting policies in the preparation of our financial statements.

Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and base our estimates on experience, current and expected future conditions, third-party evaluations and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Significant estimates have been used by management in conjunction with the following: (i) future payouts for customer incentives and amounts subject to allowances and returns; (ii) valuation and obsolescence relating to inventories; (iii) measurement of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, and evaluations of uncertain tax positions; and (iv) assumptions used in business combinations. Additionally, during periods where it becomes applicable, significant estimates will be used by management in determining the future cash flows used to assess and test for impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill. Actual results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in the consolidated financial statements.

Revenue. We generate revenue from sales of our semiconductor products to direct customers and distributors. We also generate revenue, to a much lesser extent, from product development agreements and manufacturing services provided to customers. We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation in an amount reflecting the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. For sales agreements, we have identified the promise to transfer products, each of which is distinct, to be the performance obligation. For product development agreements, we have identified the completion of a service defined in the agreement to be the performance obligation. We apply a five-step approach in determining the amount and timing of revenue to be recognized: (1) identifying the contract with a customer; (2) identifying the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determining the transaction price; (4) allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognizing revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative stand-alone selling price. In determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which we expect to be entitled. Substantially all of our revenue is recognized at the time control of the products transfers to the customer.

Sales to certain distributors, primarily those with ship and credit rights, can be subject to price adjustment on certain products. We develop an estimate of their expected claims under the ship and credit program based on the historical claims data submitted by product and customer and expected future claims, which requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to the amount of each claim as well as the historical period used to develop the estimate.

Our direct customers do not have the right to return products, other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. Sales to distributors, however, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights and stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers, estimated returns and allowances, ship and credit claims and other adjustments are provided for in the same period the related revenue are recognized,

41

and are netted against revenue. For non-quality related returns, we recognize a related asset for the right to recover returned products with a corresponding reduction to cost of goods sold. We record a reserve for cash discounts as a reduction to accounts receivable and a reduction to revenue, based on the experience with each customer.

Inventories. We carry our inventories at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value and record provisions for potential excess and obsolete inventories based upon a regular analysis of inventory on hand compared to historical and projected end-user demand. The determination of projected end-user demand requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to projected unit sales for each product. These provisions can influence our results from operations. For example, when demand falls for a given part, all or a portion of the related inventory that is considered to be in excess of anticipated demand is reserved, impacting our cost of revenue and gross profit. The majority of product inventory that has been previously reserved is ultimately discarded. However, we do sell some products that have previously been written down, such sales have historically been consistently insignificant and the related impact on our margins has also been insignificant.

Income Taxes. Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which we cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will be realized.

In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, estimated future taxable income, feasible tax planning strategies, future reversals of existing temporary differences and taxable income in prior carryback years, if a carryback is permitted are considered. If we determine it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the remaining deferred tax assets will not be realized, the valuation allowance will be increased with a charge to income tax expense. Conversely, if we determine it is more likely than not to be able to utilize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been provided, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be recorded as a reduction to income tax expense.

We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that is it more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. No tax benefit is recognized for tax positions that are not more likely than not to be sustained. Our practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. Evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of tax audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in income tax expense in the period in which the change is made, which could have a material impact to our effective tax rate.

Business Combination. We use estimates and assumptions in allocating the purchase price of acquired business by utilizing established valuation techniques appropriate for the technology industry to record the acquired assets and liabilities at fair value. We utilize the income approach, cost approach or market approach, depending upon which approach is the most appropriate based on the nature and reliability of available data. If the income approach is used, the fair value determination is predicated upon the value of the future cash flows that an asset is expected to generate over its economic life and involves significant assumptions as to cash flows, associated expenses, long-term growth rates and discount rates. The cost approach takes into account the cost to replace (or reproduce) the asset and involves assumptions relating to the asset's value of physical, functional and/or economic obsolescence that has occurred with respect to the asset. The market approach is used to estimate value from an analysis of actual transactions or offerings for economically comparable assets available as of the valuation date. Determining the fair value of acquired technology assets is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate, revenue growth rates, projected gross margins, and estimated research and development expenses.

Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate our goodwill for potential impairment annually during the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Our impairment evaluation consists of a qualitative assessment, and if deemed necessary, a quantitative test is performed which compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.

42

Determining the fair value of our reporting units is subjective in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including projected net cash flows, discount and long-term growth rates. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby the fair value of the reporting unit is derived from the present value of estimated future cash flows. The assumptions about estimated cash flows include factors such as future revenue, gross profit, operating expenses, and industry trends. We consider historical rates and current market conditions when determining the discount and long-term growth rates to use in its analysis. We consider other valuation methods, such as the cost approach or market approach, if it is determined that these methods provide a more representative approximation of fair value.

We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be fully recoverable. Impairment is first assessed when the undiscounted expected cash flows derived for an asset group are less than its carrying amount. Impairment losses, if applicable, are measured as the amount by which the carrying value of an asset group exceeds its fair value and are recognized in operating results. We continually apply our best judgment when applying these impairment rules to determine the timing of the impairment test, the undiscounted cash flows used to assess impairments and the fair value of an impaired asset group. The dynamic economic environment in which we operate and the resulting assumptions used to estimate future cash flows impact the outcome of our impairment tests. As we continue to implement our business strategy to rationalize products and manufacturing locations to transition to a lighter internal fabrication model, there could be divestiture transactions resulting in a portion of goodwill or other assets being de-recognized, and which may or may not result in accounting charges.

Contingencies. We are involved in a variety of legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. Based on the available information, we evaluate the relevant range and likelihood of potential outcomes and we record the appropriate liability when the amount is deemed probable and reasonably estimable.

For a further listing and discussion of our accounting policies, see Note 2: ''Significant Accounting Policies'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 4: ''Recent Accounting Pronouncements'' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[see Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[see Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and which we believe helped mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our results. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and which we believe helped mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our results. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[see Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[see Note 9]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[see Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for information relating to our most recent cost-saving initiatives.

Results of Operations

A discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020 is included below. For a discussion and comparison of the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 with the year ended December 31, 2019, refer to "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Other Income and Expenses

Interest Expense

Interest expense decreased by $38.0 million, or approximately 22.6%, to $130.4 million during 2021 compared to $168.4 million in 2020, primarily due to the decrease in our long-term debt and a decrease in interest rates on our variable rate debt. Our average gross amount of long-term debt balance (including current maturities) during 2021 and 2020 was $3,423.9 million and $3,669.4 million, respectively. Our weighted average interest rate on our gross amount of long-term debt (including current maturities) was 3.8% and 4.6% per annum in 2021 and 2020, respectively.

35

See "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[" below and Note 9: ']:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of our indebtedness and our refinancing activities.

Gain on Divestiture of Business

Gain on divestiture of business was $10.2 million in 2021, compared to zero in 2020, due to the divestiture of a business entity engaged in research and development.

Loss on Debt Refinancing and Prepayment

We recorded loss on debt refinancing and prepayment of $29.0 million during 2021 related to the partial repurchase or exchange of certain of the outstanding 1.625% Notes. See "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[" below and Note 9: ']:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of our indebtedness and our refinancing activities. No such expenses were incurred during 2020.

Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) was an expense of $8.6 million in 2020 compared to an income of $18.0 million in 2021, reflecting a change of approximately 309.3%. During 2021, we recognized actuarial gains on our pension obligations of $21.4 million which was partially offset by miscellaneous adjustments of $4.6 million, compared to an actuarial loss of $4.0 million during 2020.

Income Tax Provision

We recorded an income tax provision of $146.6 million and a benefit of $59.8 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively.

The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2021 consisted primarily of $179.4 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, $3.6 million related to a discrete foreign tax rate change, $2.9 million related to return to provision adjustments and $3.4 million related to additional valuation allowance, partially offset by discrete benefits of $24.3 million relating to the release of uncertain tax positions in foreign jurisdictions for favorable audit results and lapse of statue, $6.9 million relating to net equity award windfalls and $11.5 million primarily relating to an increase in deferred tax assets expected to be realized in the foreseeable future due to the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary.

The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2020 consisted of discrete benefits of $63.0 million primarily due to the recognition of certain deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, related to the domestication of certain foreign subsidiaries and a benefit of $49.4 million related to the release of valuation allowance against certain state deferred tax assets. These benefits were partially offset by a provision of $43.9 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, a $2.3 million discrete provision relating to prior year uncertain tax positions, a discrete provision of $5.5 million relating to additional foreign valuation allowance, and $0.9 million of other discrete items.

For additional information, see Note 16: ']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

This section includes a discussion and analysis of our cash requirements, contingencies, sources and uses of cash, operations, working capital and long-term assets and liabilities.

Contingencies

We are a party to a variety of agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify other parties for certain liabilities that arise out of or relate to the subject matter of the agreements. Some of the agreements entered into by us require us to indemnify the other party against losses, including, but not limited to, losses due to IP infringement, environmental contamination and other property damage, personal injury, our failure to comply with applicable laws, our negligence or willful misconduct or our breach of representations, warranties or covenants related to such matters as title to sold assets.

36

We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in economic damage, bodily injury or property damage. In addition, if any of our designed products are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. Depending on the significance of any particular customer and other relevant factors, we may agree to provide more favorable rights to such customer for valid defective product claims. We maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance policies that indemnify our directors and officers against various liabilities, including certain liabilities under the Exchange Act that might be incurred by any director or officer in his or her capacity as such.

While our future obligations under certain agreements may contain limitations on liability for indemnification, other agreements do not contain such limitations and under such agreements it is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under any of these indemnities have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we do not believe that any amounts that we may be required to pay under these indemnities in the future will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

See Note 13: ']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for possible contingencies related to legal matters. See also "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[" for information on certain environmental matters.

Sources and Uses of Cash

Our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $1,352.6 million as of December 31, 2021. We require cash to: (i) fund our operating expenses, working capital requirements, outlays for strategic acquisitions and investments, (ii) service our debt, including principal and interest; (iii) conduct research and development; (iv) incur capital expenditures; and (v) repurchase our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition and divestiture opportunities on a regular basis. During 2021, we completed the acquisition of GTAT. See Note 5: ']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include:

•Changes in demand for our products, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pricing pressures, supply chain constraints, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, our ability to make progress on the achievement of our business strategy and sustainability goals, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business

•Our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time.

The following are some of the significant sources and uses of cash during 2021 outside of our operating activities and regular capital expenditures:
•Issuance of $805.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase $372.4 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 1.625% Notes for a total consideration of $506.5 million in cash and 5.4 million shares of the Company']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' and Note 9: ']:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Cash Management

Our ability to manage cash is limited, as our primary cash inflows and outflows are dictated by the terms of our sales and supply agreements, contractual obligations, debt instruments and legal and regulatory requirements. While we have some flexibility with respect to the timing of capital equipment purchases, we must invest in capital equipment on a timely basis to allow us to maintain our manufacturing efficiency and support our platforms for new products.

Primary Cash Flow Sources

Our long-term cash generation is dependent on the ability of our operations to generate cash. Our cash flows from operating activities were $1,782.0 million, $884.3 million, and $694.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by $897.7 million, or 101.5%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, which was primarily due to better economic conditions resulting in significantly increased demand for our products, increase in average selling prices, better mix in the products sold, cash savings from restructuring activities and better working capital management.

Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and manufacturing and operating cost targets. Management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows, and each of these components is discussed below.

Working Capital

Working capital, calculated as total current assets less total current liabilities, fluctuates depending on end-market demand and our effective management of certain items such as receivables, inventory and payables. In times of escalating demand, our working capital requirements may be affected as we purchase additional manufacturing materials and increase production. Our working capital may also be affected by restructuring programs, which may require us to use cash for severance payments, asset transfers and contract termination costs. In addition, our working capital may be affected by acquisitions and transactions involving our convertible notes and other debt instruments. Although investments made to fund working capital will reduce our cash balances, these investments are necessary to support business and operating initiatives.

Our working capital, excluding cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $1,046.3 million as of December 31, 2021 and has fluctuated between $885.0 million and $1,057.1 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. Our working capital, including cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $2,238.2

38

million as of December 31, 2021 and has fluctuated between $1,457.6 million and $2,379.8 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. The significant fluctuation was due to the withdrawal and repayment on our Revolving Credit Facility during 2020 and 2021 as well as the reclassification of the 1.625% Notes as a current liability. We expect a significant increase in capital expenditures during 2022.

Long-Term Assets and Liabilities

Our long-term assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred taxes and goodwill. Our manufacturing rationalization plans have included efforts to utilize our existing manufacturing assets and supply arrangements more efficiently. We believe that near-term access to additional manufacturing capacity, should it be required, could be readily obtained on reasonable terms through manufacturing agreements with third parties. We will continue to look for opportunities to make strategic purchases in the future for additional capacity.

Our long-term liabilities, excluding long-term debt and deferred taxes, consist of liabilities under our foreign defined benefit pension plans, operating lease liabilities and contingent tax reserves. In regard to our foreign defined benefit pension plans, our annual funding of these obligations is equal to the minimum amount legally required in each jurisdiction in which the plans operate. This annual amount is dependent upon numerous actuarial assumptions. For additional information, see Note 12: ']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' and Note 16: ']:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Key Financing and Capital Events

Overview

For the past several years, we have undertaken various measures to secure liquidity to pursue acquisitions, repurchase shares of our common stock, reduce interest costs, amend existing key financing arrangements and, in some cases, extend a portion of our debt maturities to continue to provide us additional operating flexibility. Certain of these measures continued in 2021. Set forth below is a summary of certain key financing events affecting our capital structure during the last three years. For further discussion of our debt instruments, see Note 9: ']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' and for further discussion on the Share Repurchase Program (as defined below), see Note 10: ']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

2021 Financing Events

Issuance of 0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027

On May 19, 2021, we completed a private offering of $805.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0% Notes, the proceeds of which were used to repurchase a portion of the 1.625% Notes in privately negotiated note repurchase or exchange transactions, repay a portion of the Revolving Credit Facility, pay the net cost of the related convertible note hedges after such costs were offset by the proceeds from the related sale of warrants (each described below), and general corporate purposes. The 0% Notes will mature on May 1, 2027, unless earlier repurchased or redeemed by the Company or converted pursuant to their terms.

The initial conversion rate of the 0% Notes is 18.8796 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $52.97 per share of common stock. We may redeem all or any portion of the 0% Notes, the holders may convert their 0% Notes and the conversion rate is subject to adjustment, in each case upon the occurrence of certain specified events as set forth in the Indenture governing the 0% Notes. We incurred issuance costs of $19.0 million in connection with the issuance of the 0% Notes, of which $15.7 million was capitalized as debt issuance costs and $3.3 million was allocated to the conversion option and recorded to stockholders’ equity. The debt discount and debt issuance costs are being amortized at an effective interest rate of 3.2% over the contractual term of the 0% Notes.

In connection with the issuance of the 0% Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to our common stock with the initial purchasers of the 0% Notes or their affiliates ("]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. We utilize the following critical accounting policies in the preparation of our financial statements.

Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and base our estimates on experience, current and expected future conditions, third-party evaluations and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Significant estimates have been used by management in conjunction with the following: (i) future payouts for customer incentives and amounts subject to allowances and returns; (ii) valuation and obsolescence relating to inventories; (iii) measurement of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, and evaluations of uncertain tax positions; and (iv) assumptions used in business combinations. Additionally, during periods where it becomes applicable, significant estimates will be used by management in determining the future cash flows used to assess and test for impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill. Actual results may differ from the estimates and assumptions used in the consolidated financial statements.

Revenue. We generate revenue from sales of our semiconductor products to direct customers and distributors. We also generate revenue, to a much lesser extent, from product development agreements and manufacturing services provided to customers. We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation in an amount reflecting the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. For sales agreements, we have identified the promise to transfer products, each of which is distinct, to be the performance obligation. For product development agreements, we have identified the completion of a service defined in the agreement to be the performance obligation. We apply a five-step approach in determining the amount and timing of revenue to be recognized: (1) identifying the contract with a customer; (2) identifying the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determining the transaction price; (4) allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognizing revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative stand-alone selling price. In determining the transaction price, we evaluate whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which we expect to be entitled. Substantially all of our revenue is recognized at the time control of the products transfers to the customer.

Sales to certain distributors, primarily those with ship and credit rights, can be subject to price adjustment on certain products. We develop an estimate of their expected claims under the ship and credit program based on the historical claims data submitted by product and customer and expected future claims, which requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to the amount of each claim as well as the historical period used to develop the estimate.

Our direct customers do not have the right to return products, other than pursuant to the provisions of our standard warranty. Sales to distributors, however, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights and stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Provisions for discounts and rebates to customers, estimated returns and allowances, ship and credit claims and other adjustments are provided for in the same period the related revenue are recognized,

41

and are netted against revenue. For non-quality related returns, we recognize a related asset for the right to recover returned products with a corresponding reduction to cost of goods sold. We record a reserve for cash discounts as a reduction to accounts receivable and a reduction to revenue, based on the experience with each customer.

Inventories. We carry our inventories at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value and record provisions for potential excess and obsolete inventories based upon a regular analysis of inventory on hand compared to historical and projected end-user demand. The determination of projected end-user demand requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to projected unit sales for each product. These provisions can influence our results from operations. For example, when demand falls for a given part, all or a portion of the related inventory that is considered to be in excess of anticipated demand is reserved, impacting our cost of revenue and gross profit. The majority of product inventory that has been previously reserved is ultimately discarded. However, we do sell some products that have previously been written down, such sales have historically been consistently insignificant and the related impact on our margins has also been insignificant.

Income Taxes. Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which we cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will be realized.

In determining the amount of the valuation allowance, estimated future taxable income, feasible tax planning strategies, future reversals of existing temporary differences and taxable income in prior carryback years, if a carryback is permitted are considered. If we determine it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the remaining deferred tax assets will not be realized, the valuation allowance will be increased with a charge to income tax expense. Conversely, if we determine it is more likely than not to be able to utilize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been provided, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be recorded as a reduction to income tax expense.

We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that is it more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. No tax benefit is recognized for tax positions that are not more likely than not to be sustained. Our practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. Evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of tax audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in income tax expense in the period in which the change is made, which could have a material impact to our effective tax rate.

Business Combination. We use estimates and assumptions in allocating the purchase price of acquired business by utilizing established valuation techniques appropriate for the technology industry to record the acquired assets and liabilities at fair value. We utilize the income approach, cost approach or market approach, depending upon which approach is the most appropriate based on the nature and reliability of available data. If the income approach is used, the fair value determination is predicated upon the value of the future cash flows that an asset is expected to generate over its economic life and involves significant assumptions as to cash flows, associated expenses, long-term growth rates and discount rates. The cost approach takes into account the cost to replace (or reproduce) the asset and involves assumptions relating to the asset']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 4: ']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[" for additional discussion on the reasons for the fluctuations year over year.

Business and Macroeconomic Environment

The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures including restrictions on travel, business operations and temporary closures of facilities. However, during 2021, economic conditions began to improve and business conditions became stronger during the second half of the year. During 2021, we achieved revenue growth in our focused end-markets of automotive, industrial and communications infrastructure as well as expand our gross margin and operating margin as a result of cost-saving initiatives, product rationalization, favorable mix and price increases, among other actions. While the semiconductor industry conditions have resulted in increased costs throughout our supply chain, we have been able to pass a majority of such increases to our customers, which also contributed to higher revenue for 2021. We expect to continue to pursue cost-saving initiatives to be able to align our overall cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our expected revenue, spending and capacity levels to help offset increased costs. We have taken, and continue to take, significant cost containment efforts, including, but

31

not limited to, workforce reductions and reducing discretionary spending.

The ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s operational and financial performance is uncertain and will depend on many factors outside the Company’s control, including the timing, extent, trajectory and duration of the pandemic, the emergence of new variants, the development, availability, distribution and effectiveness of vaccines and treatments, the imposition of protective public safety measures, and the impact of the pandemic on the global economy and demand for products. While all our global manufacturing sites are currently operational, our facilities could be required to temporarily curtail production levels or temporarily cease operations based on government mandates due to the COVID-19 pandemic. There can be no assurances that we will adequately forecast the magnitude or duration of the adverse economic conditions on our business or that we will effectively align our cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our revenue, spending and capacity levels in the future.

See Note 7: ']:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...
