================================================================================
CIK: 0000008670
Company Name: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC
Filing Date: 2022-08-03
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 08:06:44
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts

The following section discusses our year ended June 30, 2022 (“fiscal 2022”), as compared to year ended June 30, 2021 (“fiscal 2021”). A detailed review of our fiscal 2021 performance compared to our fiscal 2020 performance is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like “expects,” “assumes,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “we believe,” “could” “is designed to” and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements or that could contribute to such difference include: ADP's success in obtaining and retaining clients, and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; the success of our new solutions; compliance with existing or new legislation or regulations; changes in, or interpretations of, existing legislation or regulations; overall market, political and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends and inflation; competitive conditions; our ability to maintain our current credit ratings and the impact on our funding costs and profitability; security or cyber breaches, fraudulent acts, and system interruptions and failures;

25

employment and wage levels; changes in technology; availability of skilled associates; the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures; the adequacy, effectiveness and success of our business transformation initiatives; the impact of any uncertainties related to major natural disasters or catastrophic events, including the coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic; and supply-chain disruptions. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and in other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

In addition to our U.S. GAAP results, we use adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted effective tax rate and organic constant currency are all non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the accompanying financial tables in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section for a discussion of why ADP believes these measures are important and for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to their comparable GAAP financial measures.

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Highlights from the year ended June 30, 2022 include:

--------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
 10% 70 basis points 15%
Revenue Growth Earnings Before Income Taxes Margin Expansion Diluted EPS Growth

 10% 90 basis points 16%
Organic Constant CurrencyRevenue Growth Adjusted EBIT Margin Expansion Adjusted Diluted EPS Growth

----- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- --------------------------------------------
 15% Employer ServicesNew Business Bookings Growth 15% PEO ServicesAverage Worksite Employee Growth

$3.6B Cash Returned via Shareholder Friendly Actions$1.7B Dividends | $2.0B Share Repurchases

We are the leading provider of cloud-based HCM technology solutions to employers around the world. Through our extensive suite of products, coupled with industry and compliance expertise, we help our clients navigate a highly dynamic world of work in order to give them peace-of-mind and reduce the time and effort they allocate to non-core tasks. This, in turn, allows our clients to better focus on what matters most to them – running their businesses.

Over the decades since pioneering our industry, we have reshaped HCM time and again by continuously innovating across our technology platforms and service solutions. Our commitment to innovation is continuous amid challenging business and operating environments – whether it be a global recession or bull market, an international conflict or global pandemic. We believe businesses, our clients, serve as a force for progress, and we remain committed to rethinking a better, more personalized world at work to help our clients and their workers achieve their full potential. That commitment underpins our drive to innovate across our portfolio in order to deliver sustainable, profitable growth.

During the fiscal year, we made significant progress on the roll-out of a new unified user experience ("UX") across our strategic products and solutions. We transitioned hundreds of thousands of clients across our RUN, iHCM, and next-gen HCM client bases over to the new UX, generating positive feedback from this transition to even more intuitive HCM workflows.

We continue to advance all of our key platforms, with Workforce Now being especially critical to our differentiation and growth. Workforce Now continues building traction in the lower end of the U.S. enterprise market and was instrumental to

26

ADP being rated an overall "Customer's Choice" provider for the first time in Gartner's annual "Voice of the Customer" study. In addition to beginning the roll-out of the new UX, this year we continued to make progress on the roll-out of our next-gen payroll solution to a growing portion of our new Workforce Now clients, and we believe these two major enhancements will help keep Workforce Now at the forefront of the industry.

We also made exciting enhancements to other solutions during the fourth quarter. We started offering self-enrollment with full digital wallet capabilities within the Wisely program, allowing for a more frictionless experience for workers that enables them to more easily transition to our digital payment offering. We expanded our Earned Wage Access solution by offering a seamless, one-application solution for Wisely members, which enables employees to receive portions of their earned wages prior to paydate at no cost. We will also be launching "Voice of the Employee", a new employee survey and listening tool, which will help our clients seamlessly capture employee feedback and sentiments across various HR categories during the employee lifecycle, which is critical in a labor market where listening to their employees can help our clients differentiate themselves and better compete in the marketplace.

We continue to drive innovation by anticipating our clients' evolving needs and always designing for people as the world of work changes. We lead the HCM industry by driving growth through our strategic, cloud-based HCM solutions and developing innovations like our next-gen platforms. We further enable these solutions by supplementing them with organic, differentiated investments such as the ADP Datacloud and ADP Marketplace, and through our compliance expertise.

For fiscal 2022, we delivered strong revenue growth of 10%. In addition, Employer Services achieved record New Business Bookings and near-record-level retention of 92.1%. The PEO average number of Worksite Employees increased 15% for fiscal 2022. Our pays per control metric, which represents the number of employees on ADP clients' payrolls in the United States when measured on a same-store-sales basis for a subset of clients ranging from small to large businesses, grew 7% for fiscal 2022.

We have a strong business model, generating significant cash flows with low capital intensity, and offer a suite of products that provide critical support to our clients’ HCM functions. We generate sufficient free cash flow to satisfy our cash dividend and modest debt obligations, which enables us to absorb the impact of downturns and remain steadfast in our re-investments, our long term strategy, and our commitments to shareholder friendly actions. We are committed to building upon our past successes by investing in our business through enhancements in research and development and by driving meaningful transformation in the way we operate. ADP was named one of Fortune’s Most Admired Companies for the 16th year in a row, which highlights our culture of continuous improvement, our consistency, and our focus on being a true partner to our clients as the world of work continues to change. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2022 and we remain well positioned to support our associates and our clients.

27

RESULTS AND ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS

Total Revenues

For the year ended June 30, respectively:

-----------------------------------------
Total Revenues

10% YoY Growth
10% YoY Growth, Organic Constant Currency

Revenues in fiscal 2022 increased due to new business started from New Business Bookings, an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs, an increase in our pays per control, and continued strong client retention. Refer to “Analysis of Reportable Segments” for additional discussion of the changes in revenue for each of our reportable segments, Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization (“PEO”) Services.

Total revenues in fiscal 2022 include interest on funds held for clients of $451.8 million, as compared to $422.4 million in fiscal 2021. The increase in interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from an increase in our average client funds balances of 18.7% to $32.5 billion in fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, partially offset by the decrease in our average interest rate earned to 1.4% in fiscal 2022, as compared to 1.5% in fiscal 2021.

28

Total Expenses

-------------------------------------------- -------- ----------- ------- -------- ---- ------- ------- -------- -- - -- -
 Years Ended
 June 30,
 2022 2021 %Change

Costs of revenues:
Operating expenses $ 8,252.6 $ 7,520.7 10 %
Systems development and programming costs 798.6 716.6 11 %
Depreciation and amortization 410.7 403.0 2 %
Total costs of revenues 9,461.9 8,640.3 10 %
Selling, general and administrative expenses 3,233.2 3,040.5 6 %
Interest expense 81.9 59.7 37 %
Total expenses $ 12,777.0 $ 11,740.5 9 %

For the year ended June 30:

Operating expenses increased due to the increase in our PEO Services zero-margin benefits pass-through costs to $3,514.4 million from $3,092.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to increased costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue, partially offset by a net reduction of $28.8 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Traditional Incorporated Cell, formerly known as ADP Indemnity, Inc. ("ADP Indemnity") and the impact of foreign currency.

Systems development and programming costs increased for fiscal 2022 due to increased investments and costs to develop, support, and maintain our new and existing products.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to increased selling expenses as a result of investments in our sales organization, increased marketing expenses and increased travel expenses, partially offset by a decrease in our allowance for doubtful accounts of $26.0 million as a result of a decrease in estimated credit losses related to the impact of COVID-19 on our clients ("the decrease in our allowance for doubtful accounts").

Interest expense increased primarily due to the issuance of 7-year fixed-rate notes totaling $1.0 billion issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2021. Additionally, there was an increase in average interest rates for commercial paper borrowings to 0.4% for the year ended June 30, 2022, as compared to 0.1% for the year ended June 30, 2021. This was coupled with an increase in average daily borrowings under our commercial paper program to $2.0 billion for the year ended June 30, 2022, as compared to $1.6 billion for the year ended June 30, 2021.

Other (Income)/Expense, net

------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ -------- ------ ------ - ------
(In millions)
Years ended June 30, 2022 2021 $ Change
Interest income on corporate funds $ (41.0) $ (36.5) $ 4.5

Realized losses/(gains) on available-for-sale securities, net 4.4 (11.3) (15.7)
Impairment of assets 23.0 19.9 (3.1)

Gain on sale of assets (7.5) (9.8) (2.3)

Non-service components of pension income, net (61.7) (58.6) 3.1
Other (income)/expense, net $ (82.8) $ (96.3) $ (13.5)

Other (income)/expense, net, decreased $13.5 million in fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021 primarily as a result of losses on available-for-sale securities, net, in the current year, compared to gains in the prior year, and the items described below, partially offset by the change in non-service components of pension income, net. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on non-service components of pension income, net.

29

In fiscal 2022, the Company recorded impairment charges of $23.0 million which is comprised of a write down of $12.1 million related to software and customer lists which were determined to have no future use and impairment charges of $10.9 million related to operating right-of-use assets associated with exiting certain leases early.

In fiscal 2021, the Company recorded impairment charges of $19.9 million, which is comprised of $10.5 million related to internally developed software which was determined to have no future use, impairment charges of $9.4 million related to operating right-of-use assets and certain related fixed assets associated with exiting certain leased locations early, and recognizing certain owned facilities at fair value given intent to sell and accordingly classified as held for sale.

Earnings Before Income Taxes

For the year ended June 30, respectively:

- -------------- - -----------------
á 13% YoY Growth á 70 bps YoY Growth

Earnings before income taxes increased due to the increases in revenues partially offset by the increases in expenses discussed above.

Overall margin increased due to increases in revenues discussed above, operational efficiencies, the decrease of $26.0 million in our allowance for doubtful accounts, and a net reduction of $28.8 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity, partially offset by incremental pressure from growth in our zero-margin benefits pass-throughs.

30

Adjusted Earnings before certain Interest and Taxes ("Adjusted EBIT")

For the year ended June 30, respectively:

- -------------- - -----------------
á 14% YoY Growth á 90 bps YoY Growth

Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBIT margin exclude interest income and interest expense that are not related to our client funds
extended investment strategy, and net charges, including gain on sale of assets related to our broad-based transformation
initiatives and the impact of net severance charges, as applicable, in the respective periods.

Provision for Income Taxes

The effective tax rate in fiscal 2022 and 2021 was 22.5% and 22.7%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a favorable earnings mix, lower reserves for uncertain tax positions, and an intercompany transfer of certain assets in fiscal 2022, partially offset by favorable adjustments to prior year tax liabilities and a foreign tax election in fiscal 2021. Refer to Note 11, Income Taxes, within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Adjusted Provision for Income Taxes

The adjusted effective tax rate in fiscal 2022 and 2021 was 22.5% and 22.7%, respectively. The drivers of the adjusted effective tax rate are the same as the drivers of the effective tax rate discussed above.

31

Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share

For the year ended June 30, respectively:

- -------------- - --------------
á 13% YoY Growth á 15% YoY Growth

Adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS reflect the changes in components described above.

Diluted EPS increased as a result of the increase in net earnings and the impact of fewer shares outstanding resulting from the repurchase of approximately 9.2 million shares during fiscal 2022 and 8.2 million shares during fiscal 2021, partially offset by the issuances of shares under our employee benefit plans.

Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share

For the year ended June 30, respectively:

- -------------- - --------------
á 15% YoY Growth á 16% YoY Growth

For fiscal 2022, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS reflect the changes in components described above.

32

ANALYSIS OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

----------------- ------------------- -------- ---- ------- - -------- -------- ----------- --- - ------------------------- - --- -- - -- -
 Revenues
 Years EndedJune 30, % Change
 2022 2021 As Reported Organic Constant Currency
Employer Services $ 10,967.7 $ 10,195.2 8 % 8 %
PEO Services 5,545.7 4,818.3 15 % 15 %
Other (15.1) (8.1) n/m n/m

 $ 16,498.3 $ 15,005.4 10 % 10 %

----------------- ---------------------------- ------- ---- ------- - ------- -------- ----------- --- - -- -
 Earnings before Income Taxes
 Years EndedJune 30, % Change
 2022 2021 As Reported
Employer Services $ 3,406.3 $ 3,052.1 12 %
PEO Services 871.2 718.8 21 %
Other (473.4) (409.7) n/m

 $ 3,804.1 $ 3,361.2 13 %

n/m - not meaningful

Employer Services

Revenues

Revenues increased due to new business started from New Business Bookings, an increase in our pays per control of 7%, continued strong retention, and an increase in interest earned on funds held for clients.

Earnings before Income Taxes

Employer Services' earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2022 due to increased revenues discussed above, partially offset by increases in expenses. The increases in expenses were due to increased costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue, increases in selling expenses, and investments and costs to develop, support, and maintain our new and existing products, partially offset by the decrease of $26.0 million in our allowance for doubtful accounts.

33

For the year ended June 30, respectively:

- ------------------
á 110 bps YoY Growth

Employer Services' margin increased due to increases in revenues discussed above, operational efficiencies, and the decrease of $26.0 million in our allowance for doubtful accounts, partially offset by an increase in costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue.

PEO Services

Revenues

------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- ----------- ------ ------------ ------- ---- ------- - ------- ----- - ----- - -- -
 PEO Revenues
 Years Ended Change
 June 30,
 2022 2021 $ %
PEO Services' revenues $ 5,545.7 $ 4,818.3 $ 727.4 15 %
Less: PEO zero-margin benefits pass-throughs 3,514.4 3,092.0 422.4 14 %
PEO Services' revenues excluding zero-margin benefits pass-throughs $ 2,031.3 $ 1,726.3 $ 305.0 18 %

PEO Services' revenues increased 15% for fiscal 2022 due to increases in average worksite employees of 15% for fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021, and due to an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs.

Earnings before Income Taxes

PEO Services’ earnings before income taxes increased 21% in fiscal 2022, due to increased revenues discussed above and a net reduction of $28.8 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity, partially offset by the increases in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs of $422.4 million for fiscal 2022.

34

For the year ended June 30, respectively:

- -----------------
á 80 bps YoY Growth

PEO Services' overall margin increased for fiscal 2022 due to an increase in revenues discussed above and a net reduction of $28.8 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity, partially offset by by incremental pressure from growth in our zero-margin benefits pass-throughs.

ADP Indemnity provides workers’ compensation and employer’s liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services’ worksite employees up to $1 million per occurrence. PEO Services has secured a workers’ compensation and employer’s liability insurance policy that caps the exposure for each claim at $1 million per occurrence and has also secured aggregate stop loss insurance that caps aggregate losses at a certain level in fiscal years 2012 and prior from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG. We utilize historical loss experience and actuarial judgment to determine the estimated claim liability, and changes in estimated ultimate incurred losses are included in the PEO segment.

Additionally, starting in fiscal year 2013, ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited (“Chubb”), to cover substantially all losses incurred by the Company up to the $1 million per occurrence related to the workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' worksite employees. Each of these reinsurance arrangements limits our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit. The Company believes the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote. During fiscal 2022, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $260 million to enter into a reinsurance arrangement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2022 policy year up to $1 million per occurrence. ADP Indemnity recorded a pre-tax benefit of approximately $61 million in fiscal 2022 and a pre-tax benefit of approximately $32 million in fiscal 2021, which were primarily a result of changes in our estimated actuarial losses. ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $284 million in July 2022, to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for fiscal 2023 policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal 2022 reinsurance policy.

Other

The primary components of “Other” are certain corporate overhead charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, including corporate functions, costs related to our transformation office, severance costs, non-recurring gains and losses, the elimination of intercompany transactions, and all other interest income and expense.

35

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

In addition to our GAAP results, we use the adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics set forth in the table below to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods:

----------------------------------- --------------------------
Adjusted Financial Measures U.S. GAAP Measures
Adjusted EBIT Net earnings
Adjusted provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes
Adjusted net earnings Net earnings

Adjusted diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share
Adjusted effective tax rate Effective tax rate

Organic constant currency Revenues

We believe that the exclusion of the identified items helps us reflect the fundamentals of our underlying business model and analyze results against our expectations and against prior periods, and to plan for future periods by focusing on our underlying operations. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance.  The nature of these exclusions is for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations.  Since these adjusted financial measures and other non-GAAP metrics are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to their corresponding U.S. GAAP measures, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures at other companies.

36

-------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------- ---- ------ -------- ------- ----------- -- -
 Years EndedJune 30, % Change
 2022 2021 As Reported
Net earnings $ 2,948.9 $ 2,598.5 13 %
Adjustments:
Provision for income taxes 855.2 762.7
All other interest expense (a) 71.3 57.3
All other interest income (a) (7.1) (6.5)

Transformation initiatives (b) 3.5 —
Excess capacity severance charges — 2.9

Legal settlements — (30.7)
Adjusted EBIT $ 3,871.8 $ 3,384.2 14 %
Adjusted EBIT Margin 23.5 % 22.6 %

Provision for income taxes $ 855.2 $ 762.7 12 %
Adjustments:

Transformation initiatives (c) 0.8 —
Excess capacity severance charges — 0.5

Legal settlements — (7.5)

Adjusted provision for income taxes $ 856.0 $ 755.7 13 %
Adjusted effective tax rate (d) 22.5 % 22.7 %

Net earnings $ 2,948.9 $ 2,598.5 13 %
Adjustments:

Transformation initiatives (b) 3.5 —
Income tax benefit for transformation initiatives (c) (0.8) —
Excess capacity severance charges — 2.9
Income tax benefit for excess capacity severance charges — (0.5)

Legal settlements — (30.7)
Income tax provision/ (benefit) for legal settlements — 7.5

Adjusted net earnings $ 2,951.6 $ 2,577.7 15 %

Diluted EPS $ 7.00 $ 6.07 15 %
Adjustments:

Transformation initiatives (b) (c) 0.01 —
Excess capacity severance charges — 0.01

Legal settlements — (0.05)

Adjusted diluted EPS $ 7.01 $ 6.02 16 %

(a) In adjusted EBIT we include the interest income earned on investments associated with our client funds extended investment strategy and interest expense on borrowings related to our client funds extended investment strategy as we believe these amounts to be fundamental to the underlying operations of our business model. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that are not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as “All other interest expense” and “All other interest income.”

(b) In fiscal 2022, the charges include consulting costs relating to our company wide transformation initiatives, partially offset by net reversals relating to severance, and gain on sale of assets. Unlike other severance charges which are not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results, these specific charges relate to actions taken as part of our broad-based, company-wide transformation initiative.

(c) The income tax provision/(benefit) was calculated based on the marginal rate in effect for the year ended June 30, 2022.

(d) The Adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as our Adjusted provision for income taxes divided by the sum of our Adjusted net earnings plus our Adjusted provision for income taxes.

The following table reconciles our reported growth rates to the non-GAAP measure of organic constant currency, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, the impact of dispositions, and the impact of foreign currency. The impact of acquisitions

37

and dispositions is calculated by excluding the current year revenues of acquisitions until the one-year anniversary of the transaction and by excluding the prior year revenues of divestitures for the one-year period preceding the transaction. The impact of foreign currency is determined by calculating the current year results using foreign exchange rates consistent with the prior year. The PEO segment is not impacted by acquisitions, dispositions or foreign currency.

----------------------------------------------------------- ---------- -
 Year Ended
 June 30,
 2022
Consolidated revenue growth as reported 10 %
Adjustments:
Impact of acquisitions — %

Impact of foreign currency — %
Consolidated revenue growth, organic constant currency 10 %

Employer Services revenue growth as reported 8 %
Adjustments:
Impact of acquisitions — %

Impact of foreign currency — %
Employer Services revenue growth, organic constant currency 8 %

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

As of June 30, 2022, cash and cash equivalents were $1.4 billion, which were primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds.

For corporate liquidity, we expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flow from operations together with our $9.7 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet our operating, investing, and financing activities such as regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2022 and we have sufficient liquidity.

For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow through our financing arrangements under our U.S. short-term commercial paper program and our U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term reverse repurchase agreements, together with our $9.7 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. Please see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a further discussion of the risks related to our client funds extended investment strategy. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including commercial paper.

38

Operating, Investing and Financing Cash Flows

Our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows are summarized as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------- ---- --------- - ------- -------- --------- - -------
 Years ended June 30,
 2022 2021 $ Change
Cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 3,099.5 $ 3,093.3 $ 6.2
Investing activities (7,014.4) (3,515.0) (3,499.4)
Financing activities 13,653.4 6,437.5 7,215.9
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents (98.7) 73.8 (172.5)
Net change in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents $ 9,639.8 $ 6,089.6 $ 3,550.2

Net cash flows provided by operating activities was flat compared to prior year and includes a net unfavorable change in the components of operating assets and liabilities, due to timing on collections of accounts receivable and an increase in incentive compensation payments, offset by the growth in our underlying business (net income adjusted for non-cash adjustments), as compared to the year ended June 30, 2021.

Net cash flows used in investing activities changed due to the timing of proceeds and purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities of $3,455.6 million, and higher payments related to acquisitions of intangibles and a business, offset by proceeds from the sale of property, plant, and equipment.

Net cash flows provided by financing activities changed due to a net increase in the cash flow from client funds obligations of $8,721.7 million, which is due to the timing of impounds from our clients and payments to our clients' employees and other payees, an increase in reverse repurchase agreements borrowing, and the settlement of cash flow hedges in the year ended June 30, 2021. These were partially offset by the issuance of debt in the year ended June 30, 2021 and repurchases of common stock and dividends paid in fiscal 2022.

We purchased approximately 9.2 million shares of our common stock at an average price per share of $214.40 during fiscal 2022, as compared to purchases of 8.2 million shares at an average price per share of $170.04 during fiscal 2021. From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase program. The Company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity, cash balances and cash flows, issuances due to employee benefit plan activity, and market conditions.

Capital Resources and Client Fund Obligations

We have $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2025, 2028, and 2030. We may from time to time revisit the long-term debt market to refinance existing debt, finance investments including acquisitions for our growth, and maintain the appropriate capital structure. However, there can be no assurance that volatility in the global capital and credit markets would not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. See Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our notes.

Our U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. This commercial paper program provides for the issuance of up to $9.7 billion in aggregate maturity value. Our commercial paper program is rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s, Prime-1 (“P-1”) by Moody’s and F1+ by Fitch. These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities. Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to up to 364 days. At June 30, 2022 and 2021, we had no commercial paper borrowing outstanding. Details of the borrowings under the commercial paper program are as follows:

------------------------------------------------- ----- --- ----- --- - ---
Years ended June 30, 2022 2021
Average daily borrowings (in billions) $ 2.0 $ 1.6
Weighted average interest rates 0.4 % 0.1 %
Weighted average maturity (approximately in days) 1 day 1 day

39

Our U.S., Canadian, and United Kingdom short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. These agreements generally have terms ranging from overnight to up to five business days. We have successfully borrowed through the use of reverse repurchase agreements on an as-needed basis to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. At June 30, 2022 and 2021, there were $136.4 million and $23.5 million, respectively, of outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. Details of the reverse repurchase agreements are as follows:

------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
Years ended June 30, 2022 2021
Average outstanding balances $ 299.6 $ 136.7
Weighted average interest rates 0.7 % 0.2 %

We vary the maturities of our committed credit facilities to limit the refinancing risk of any one facility. We had a $3.75 billion, 364-day credit agreement that was amended in June 2022 and matured in July 2022. On July 1, 2022, the company entered into a new $3.75 billion 364-day credit agreement that matures in June 2023 with a one year term-out option to replace the maturing facility. In addition, we have a five-year $2.75 billion credit facility and a five-year $3.2 billion credit facility maturing in June 2024 and June 2026, respectively, each with an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary. We had no borrowings through June 30, 2022 under the credit facilities. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the revolving credit agreements to borrow thereunder, and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the $9.7 billion available to us under the revolving credit agreements. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including credit facilities.

Our investment portfolio does not contain any asset-backed securities with underlying collateral of sub-prime mortgages, alternative-A mortgages, sub-prime auto loans or sub-prime home equity loans, collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, credit default swaps, derivatives, auction rate securities, structured investment vehicles or non-investment grade fixed-income securities. We own AAA-rated senior tranches of primarily fixed rate auto loan, credit card, equipment lease, and rate reduction receivables, secured predominantly by prime collateral. All collateral on asset-backed securities is performing as expected through June 30, 2022. In addition, we own U.S. government securities which primarily include debt directly issued by Federal Farm Credit Banks and Federal Home Loan Banks. Our client funds investment strategy is structured to allow us to average our way through an interest rate cycle by laddering the maturities of our investments out to five years (in the case of the extended portfolio) and out to ten years (in the case of the long portfolio). This investment strategy is supported by our short-term financing arrangements necessary to satisfy short-term funding requirements relating to client funds obligations. See Note 4 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our corporate investments and funds held for clients.

Capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 were $177.1 million, as compared to $178.3 million for fiscal 2021. We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2023 to be between $175 million and $200 million.

Contractual Obligations

Our contractual obligations at June 30, 2022 relate primarily to operating leases (Note 6) and other arrangements recorded in our balance sheet or disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, including benefit plan obligations (Note 10), liabilities for uncertain tax positions (Note 11), purchase obligations (Note 12), debt obligations (Note 9) and $309.5 million of interest payments of our debt, of which $63.3 million is expected to be paid within one year.

In addition to the obligations described above, we had obligations for the remittance of funds relating to our payroll and payroll tax filing services. As of June 30, 2022, the obligations relating to these matters, which are expected to be paid in fiscal 2023, total $51,285.5 million and were recorded in client funds obligations on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We had $49,569.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities that were impounded from our clients to satisfy such obligations recorded in funds held for clients on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2022.

Separately, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $284 million in July 2022 to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2023 policy year. At June 30, 2022, ADP Indemnity had total assets of $612.0 million to satisfy the actuarially estimated unpaid losses of $533.9 million for the policy years since July 1, 2003. ADP Indemnity paid claims of $1.8 million and $3.3 million, net of insurance recoveries, in fiscal 2022 and 2021,

40

respectively. Refer to the “Analysis of Reportable Segments - PEO Services” above for additional information regarding ADP Indemnity.

In the normal course of business, we also enter into contracts in which we make representations and warranties that relate to the performance of our services and products. We do not expect any material losses related to such representations and warranties.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Our overall investment portfolio is comprised of corporate investments (cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term marketable securities) and client funds assets (funds that have been collected from clients but have not yet been remitted to the applicable tax authorities or client employees).

Our corporate investments are invested in cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities.  These assets are available for our regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions, as well as other corporate operating purposes. All of our short-term and long-term fixed-income securities are classified as available-for-sale securities.

Our client funds assets are invested with safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary objectives. Consistent with those objectives, we also seek to maximize interest income and to minimize the volatility of interest income.  Client funds assets are invested in highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, with a maximum maturity of 10 years at the time of purchase, and money market securities and other cash equivalents.

We utilize a strategy by which we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for funds held for clients and employ short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. Our client funds investment strategy is structured to allow us to average our way through an interest rate cycle by laddering the maturities of our investments out to five years (in the case of the extended portfolio) and out to ten years (in the case of the long portfolio). As part of our client funds investment strategy, we use the daily collection of funds from our clients to satisfy other unrelated client funds obligations, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. In circumstances where we experience a reduction in employment levels due to a slowdown in the economy, we may make tactical decisions to sell certain securities in order to reduce the size of the funds held for clients to correspond to client funds obligations. We minimize the risk of not having funds collected from a client available at the time such client’s obligation becomes due by impounding, in virtually all instances, the client’s funds in advance of the timing of payment of such client’s obligation. As a result of this practice, we have consistently maintained the required level of client funds assets to satisfy all of our obligations.

There are inherent risks and uncertainties involving our investment strategy relating to our client funds assets. Such risks include liquidity risk, including the risk associated with our ability to liquidate, if necessary, our available-for-sale securities in a timely manner in order to satisfy our client funds obligations. However, our investments are made with the safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary goals to minimize the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy all of our client funds obligations. We also believe we have significantly reduced the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy our client funds obligations by consistently maintaining access to other sources of liquidity, including our corporate cash balances, available borrowings under our $9.7 billion commercial paper program (rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s, P-1 by Moody’s, and F1+ by Fitch, the highest possible short-term credit ratings), our ability to engage in reverse repurchase agreement transactions and available borrowings under our $9.7 billion committed credit facilities. The reduced availability of financing during periods of economic turmoil, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our ability to access short-term debt markets to meet the liquidity needs of our business. In addition to liquidity risk, our investments are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk, as discussed below.

We have established credit quality, maturity, and exposure limits for our investments. The minimum allowed credit rating at time of purchase for corporate, Canadian government agency and Canadian provincial bonds is BBB, for asset-backed securities is AAA, and for municipal bonds is A. The maximum maturity at time of purchase for BBB-rated securities is 5 years, and for single A rated, AA-rated and AAA-rated securities it is 10 years. Time deposits and commercial paper must be rated A-1 and/or P-1. Money market funds must be rated AAA/Aaa-mf.

41

Details regarding our overall investment portfolio are as follows:

---------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- -------- ---- -------- - --------

Years ended June 30, 2022 2021
Average investment balances at cost:
Corporate investments $ 4,241.3 $ 3,525.6
Funds held for clients 32,480.3 27,353.1
Total $ 36,721.6 $ 30,878.7

Average interest rates earned exclusive of realized losses/(gains) on:
Corporate investments 1.0 % 1.0 %
Funds held for clients 1.4 % 1.5 %
Total 1.3 % 1.5 %

Net realized losses/(gains) on available-for-sale securities 4.4 (11.3)

---------------------------------------------------------------------- - --------- - --------
As of June 30:
Net unrealized pre-tax (losses)/gains on available-for-sale securities $ (1,721.4) $ 502.2

Total available-for-sale securities at fair value $ 28,391.6 $ 24,371.7

We are exposed to interest rate risk in relation to securities that mature, as the proceeds from maturing securities are reinvested. Factors that influence the earnings impact of interest rate changes include, among others, the amount of invested funds and the overall portfolio mix between short-term and long-term investments. This mix varies during the fiscal year and is impacted by daily interest rate changes. The annualized interest rate earned on our entire portfolio decreased from 1.5% for fiscal 2021 to 1.3% for fiscal 2022. A hypothetical change in both short-term interest rates (e.g., overnight interest rates or the federal funds rate) and intermediate-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately an $18 million impact to earnings before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending June 30, 2023. A hypothetical change in only short-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average short-term investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately an $8 million impact to earnings before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending June 30, 2023.

We are exposed to credit risk in connection with our available-for-sale securities through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the securities. We limit credit risk by investing in investment-grade securities, primarily AAA-rated and AA- rated securities, as rated by Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, DBRS for Canadian dollar denominated securities, and Fitch for asset-backed and commercial-mortgage-backed securities. In addition, we limit amounts that can be invested in any security other than U.S. government and government agency, Canadian government, and United Kingdom government securities.

We operate and transact business in various foreign jurisdictions and are therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We may use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading purposes.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1, Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

42

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and other comprehensive income. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information.

The estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. These estimates require levels of subjectivity and judgment, which could result in actual results differing from our estimates. The Company believes the following are its critical accounting estimates:

Deferred Costs - Assets Recognized from the Costs to Obtain and Fulfill Contracts

Description
Incremental costs of obtaining a contract (e.g., sales commissions) and cost incurred to implement clients on our solutions (e.g., direct labor) that are expected to be recovered are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the client retention period, depending on the business unit.

Judgments and Uncertainties
The Company has estimated the amortization periods for deferred costs by using its historical retention rates by business unit to estimate the pattern during which the service transfers. The expected client relationship period ranges from three to eight years.

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change
As the assumptions used to estimate the amortization period of the deferred costs could have a material impact on timing of recognition, we assess the amortization periods annually using historical retention rates. Actual retention rates were not materially different than those used in our calculation to determine the amortization period. We regularly review our deferred costs for impairment. There were no impairment losses incurred during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022, June 30, 2021, or June 30, 2020.

Goodwill.

Description
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently when an event or circumstance indicates that goodwill might be impaired.

Judgments and Uncertainties
The Company’s annual goodwill impairment assessment as of June 30, 2022 was performed for all reporting units using a quantitative approach by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. We estimated the fair value of each reporting unit using, as appropriate, the income approach, which is derived using the present value of future cash flows discounted at a risk-adjusted weighted-average cost of capital, and the market approach, which is based upon using market multiples of companies in similar lines of business. Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of our reporting units include projected revenue growth rates, profitability projections, working capital assumptions, the weighted average cost of capital, the determination of appropriate market comparison companies, and terminal growth rates. Several of these assumptions including projected revenue growth rates and profitability projections are dependent on our ability to upgrade, enhance, and expand our technology and services to meet client needs and preferences.

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change
Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management including the weighted-average cost of capital, tax rates, market comparisons, and terminal growth rates. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in material impairments of our goodwill. The assumptions used to assess impairment consider historical trends, macroeconomic conditions, and projections consistent with the Company’s operating strategy. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of fair value which could result in material impairment losses.

43

We completed our annual assessment of goodwill as of June 30, 2022 and determined that there was no impairment of goodwill. We performed a sensitivity analysis and determined that a one percentage point increase in the weighted-average cost of capital would not result in an impairment of goodwill for all reporting units and their fair values substantially exceeded their carrying values.

Income Taxes

Description
Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof). A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Judgments and Uncertainties
The Company computes its provision for income taxes based on the statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the “more likely than not” standard has been met when computing the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and uncertain tax positions.

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change
While the Company considers all of its tax positions fully supportable, the Company is occasionally challenged by various tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. If certain pending tax matters settle within the next twelve months, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease for all open tax years and jurisdictions. As of June 30, 2022 and 2021, the Company's liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, which include interest and penalties, were $98.1 million and $99.9 million, respectively.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[Refer to Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc.

[See Note 9]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- -------------  Alphabet Inc.

[See Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts

The following section discusses our year ended June 30, 2022 (“fiscal 2022”), as compared to year ended June 30, 2021 (“fiscal 2021”). A detailed review of our fiscal 2021 performance compared to our fiscal 2020 performance is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like “expects,” “assumes,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “we believe,” “could” “is designed to” and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management’s expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements or that could contribute to such difference include: ADP']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17
