================================================================================
CIK: 0001158449
Company Name: ADVANCE AUTO PARTS INC
Filing Date: 2022-02-15
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 02:33:30
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies”. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects, which could in turn materially affect the price of our common stock.

Risks Related to Our Operations and Growth Strategy

If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategy, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.

We have identified several initiatives as part of our business strategy to increase sales, expand margins, drive accelerated growth and deliver strong relative total shareholder return. We are currently making and expect to continue to make significant investments to pursue our strategic initiatives. If we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives efficiently and effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We could also be adversely affected if we have not appropriately prioritized and balanced our initiatives or if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization. Implementing strategic initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations and may not provide the anticipated benefits, or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. These risks increase when significant changes are undertaken.

If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, keep existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We intend to continue to expand the markets we serve as part of our growth strategy, which may include opening new stores or branches, as well as expansion of our online business. We may also grow our business through strategic acquisitions. As we expand our market presence, it becomes more critical that we have consistent and effective execution across all of our locations and brands. We are unsure whether we will be able to open and operate new locations on a timely or sufficiently profitable basis, or that opening new locations in markets we already serve will not harm the profitability or comparable store sales of existing locations. The newly opened and existing locations’ profitability will depend on the competition we face as well as our ability to properly stock, market and price the products desired by customers in these markets. The actual number and format of any new locations to be opened and the success of our growth strategy will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things:

•the availability of desirable locations;
•the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations;
•the availability of financial resources, including access to capital at cost-effective interest rates;
•our ability to expand our online offerings and sales; and
•our ability to manage the expansion and to hire, train and retain qualified team members.

We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and zoning regulations, environmental regulations and other regulatory requirements may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing, renovating and operating our stores. In addition, real estate, zoning, construction and other delays may adversely affect store openings and renovations and increase our costs. For example, during 2021 we experienced significant delays associated with our planned opening of 109 new locations in California, primarily as a result of permitting challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and such delays increased our costs and resulted in significant lost sales opportunities. Further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. The termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. If we determine to close or relocate a store subject to a lease, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for the balance of the lease term. In addition to potentially incurring costs related to lease obligations, we may also incur severance or other facility closure costs for stores that are closed or relocated.

7

Table of Contents
Omnichannel growth in our business is complex and if we are unable to successfully maintain a relevant omnichannel experience for our customers, our sales and results of operations could adversely be impacted.

Our business has become increasingly omnichannel as we strive to deliver a seamless shopping experience to our customers through both online and in-store shopping experiences. Operating an e-commerce platform is a complex undertaking and exposes us to risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our internet operations, website, mobile applications and software and other related operational systems. Continuing to improve our e-commerce platform involves substantial investment of capital and resources, increasing supply chain and distribution capabilities, attracting, developing and retaining qualified personnel with relevant subject matter expertise and effectively managing and improving the customer experience. Omnichannel and e-commerce retail are competitive and evolving environments. Insufficient, untimely or inadequately prioritized or ineffectively implemented investments could significantly impact our profitability and growth and affect our ability to attract new customers, as well as maintain our existing ones.

Enhancing the customer experience through omnichannel programs such as buy-online-pickup-in-store, new or expanded delivery options, the ability to shop through a mobile application or other similar programs depends in part on the effectiveness of our inventory management processes and systems, the effectiveness of our merchandising strategy and mix, our supply chain and distribution capabilities, and the timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, particularly our promotions. Costs associated with implementing omnichannel initiatives may be higher than expected, and the initiatives may not result in increased sales, including same store sales, customer traffic, customer loyalty or other anticipated results. Website downtime and other technology disruptions in our e-commerce platform, including interruptions due to cyber-related issues or natural disasters, as well as supply and distribution delays and other related issues may affect the successful operation of our e-commerce platform. If we are not able to successfully operate or improve our e-commerce platform and omnichannel business, we may not be able to provide a relevant shopping experience or improve customer traffic, sales or margins, and our reputation, operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

If we are unable to successfully integrate future acquisitions into our existing operations or implement joint ventures or other strategic relationships, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions and enter into strategic relationships as an element of our growth strategy. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic relationships involve certain risks that could cause our growth and profitability to differ from our expectations. The success of these acquisitions and relationships depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:

•our ability to continue to identify and acquire suitable targets or strategic partners, or to acquire additional companies or enter into strategic relationships, at favorable prices and/or with favorable terms;
•our ability to obtain the full benefits envisioned by strategic transactions or relationships;
•the risk that management’s attention may be distracted;
•our ability to attract and retain key personnel;
•our ability to successfully integrate the operations and systems of the acquired companies, and to achieve the strategic, operational, financial or other anticipated synergies of the acquisition or other transaction or relationship;
•the performance our of our strategic partners;
•significant transaction or integration costs that may not be offset by the synergies or other benefits achieved in the near term, or at all;
•additional operational risks, such as those associated with doing business internationally or expanding operations into new territories, geographies or channels, that may become applicable to us; and
•loss contingencies that we may assume or become subject to, whether known or unknown, of acquired companies, which could relate to past, present or future facts, events, circumstances or occurrences.

8

Table of Contents
If we experience difficulties implementing various information systems, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted.

We are dependent on information systems to facilitate the day-to-day operations of the business and to produce timely, accurate and reliable information on financial and operational results. We are in process of implementing various information systems, including additional modules within our new ERP. These implementations will require significant investment of human and financial resources, and we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties with these projects. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of these information systems could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. While we have invested meaningful resources in planning, project management and training, additional and serious implementation issues may arise as we integrate onto these new information systems that may disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

If we are unable to maintain adequate supply chain capacity and improve supply chain efficiency, we will not be able to expand our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our store inventories are primarily replenished by shipments from our network of distribution centers, warehouses and HUB stores. As we expand our market presence, we will need to increase the efficiency and maintain adequate capacity of our supply chain network in order to achieve the business goal of reducing inventory costs while improving availability and movement of goods throughout our supply chain to meet consumer product needs and channel preferences. We continue to streamline and optimize our supply chain network and systems. If our investments in our supply chain do not provide the anticipated benefits, we could experience sub-optimal inventory levels or increases in our costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We are dependent on our suppliers to supply us with products that comply with safety and quality standards at competitive prices.

We are dependent on our vendors continuing to supply us quality products on payment terms that are favorable to us. If our merchandise offerings do not meet our customers’ expectations regarding safety, innovation and quality, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and exposure to legal and reputational risk. Our suppliers are subject to applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety and quality standards. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose us to government enforcement action and private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. To the extent our suppliers are subject to additional government regulation of their product design and/or manufacturing processes, the cost of the merchandise we purchase may rise. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety or quality of the products we sell could cause our customers to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. In those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our customers.

Our reliance on suppliers, including freight carriers and other third parties in our global supply chain, subjects us to various risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our financial results.

We source the products we sell from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers, and place significant reliance upon various third parties to transport, store and distribute those products to our distribution centers, stores and customers. Our financial results depend on us securing acceptable terms with our suppliers for, among other things, the price of merchandise we purchase from them, funding for various forms of promotional programs, payment terms and terms covering returns and factory warranties. To varying degrees, our suppliers may be able to leverage their competitive advantages - for example, their financial strength, the strength of their brand with customers, their own stores or online channels or their relationships with other retailers - to our commercial disadvantage. Generally, our ability to negotiate favorable terms with our suppliers is more difficult with suppliers for whom our purchases represent a smaller proportion of their total revenues, consequently impacting our profitability from such vendor relationships. We have established standards for product safety and quality and workplace standards that we require all our suppliers to meet. We do not condone human trafficking, forced labor, child labor, harassment or abuse of any kind, and we expect our suppliers to operate within these same principles. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who can supply products in a timely and efficient manner that meet our standards can be challenging. Suppliers may also fail to invest adequately in design, production or distribution facilities, may reduce their customer incentives, advertising and promotional activities or change their pricing policies. If we encounter any of these issues with our suppliers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.

9

Table of Contents
In addition, our suppliers, including those within our global supply chain, are impacted by global conditions that in turn may impact our ability to source merchandise at competitive prices or timely supply product at levels adequate to meet consumer demand. For example, the recent surges in consumer demand, shortages of raw materials and disruptions to the global supply chain resulting from lack of carrier capacity, labor shortages, port congestion and /or closures, amongst other factors, have negatively impacted costs and inventory availability and may continue to have a negative impact on future results and profitability. As suppliers increase prices charged to us for products, including transportation and distribution, as a result of these or other factors, it may negatively impact our results. If we experience transitions or changeover with any of our significant vendors, or if they experience financial difficulties or otherwise are unable to deliver merchandise to us on a timely basis, or at all, we could have product shortages in our stores that could adversely affect customers’ perceptions of us and cause us to lose customers and sales.

We depend on the services of many qualified executives and other team members, whom we may not be able to attract, develop and retain.

Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued engagement, services and experience of our executives and other team members. We may not be able to retain our current executives and other key team members or attract and retain additional qualified executives and team members who may be needed in the future. Our ability to attract, develop and retain an adequate number of qualified team members depends on factors such as employee morale, our reputation, competition from other employers, availability of qualified personnel, our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages and our ability to maintain a safe working environment. For example, during 2021, we experienced unusually low availability of workers, which we believe was primarily attributable to COVID-19 pandemic related factors and in turn has created increased competition in labor markets. Disruptions and heightened competition like those experienced during 2021 may increase our costs, impact our ability to serve customers and otherwise affect our business operations. We also believe our future success will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel for whom the market is highly competitive, particularly for individuals with certain types of technical skills. Failure to recruit or retain qualified employees may impair our efficiency and effectiveness and our ability to pursue growth opportunities. Additionally, turnover in executive or other key positions can disrupt progress in implementing business strategies, result in a loss of institutional knowledge, cause other team members to take on substantially more responsibility, resulting in greater workload demands and diverting attention away from key areas of the business, or otherwise negatively impact our growth prospects or future operating results.

We operate in a competitive labor market and there is a risk that market increases in compensation could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Market or government regulated increases to employee hourly wage rates, along with our ability to implement corresponding adjustments within our labor model and wage rates, could have a significant impact to the profitability of our business. In addition, approximately 1% of our team members are represented by unions. If these team members were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, or if the terms and conditions in labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a disruption in our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. If we fail or are unable to maintain competitive compensation, our customer service and execution levels could suffer by reason of a declining quality of our workforce, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Because we are involved in litigation from time to time, and are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees and other costs.

We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation, which may include class action litigation from customers, team members or others for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, employment, discrimination, breach of laws or regulations (including The Americans With Disabilities Act), payment of wages, exposure to asbestos or potentially hazardous product, real estate and product defects. The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings are substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For instance, we are subject to numerous lawsuits alleging injury as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products (see Note 13. Contingencies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein).

10

Table of Contents
We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to, among other things, environmental protection, product quality and safety standards, building and zoning requirements, labor and employment, discrimination, anti-bribery/anti-corruption, data privacy and income taxes. Compliance with existing and future laws and regulations could increase the cost of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs, as well as reputational risk. In addition, our capital and operating expenses could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations.

We work diligently to maintain the privacy and security of our customers, suppliers, team members and business information and the functioning of our computer systems, website and other online offerings. In the event of a security breach or other cyber security incident, we could experience adverse operational effects or interruptions and/or become subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, any of which could lead to damage to our reputation in the marketplace and substantial costs.

The nature of our business requires us to receive, retain and transmit certain personally identifiable information about our customers, suppliers and team members, some of which is entrusted to third-party service providers. While we have taken and continue to undertake significant steps to protect such personally identifiable information and other confidential information and to protect the functioning of our computer systems, website and other online offerings, a compromise of our data security systems or those of businesses we interact with could result in information related to our customers, suppliers, team members or business being obtained by unauthorized persons or adverse operational effects or interruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We develop, maintain and update processes and systems in an effort to try to prevent this from occurring, but these actions are costly and require constant, ongoing attention as technologies change, privacy and information security regulations change, and efforts to overcome security measures by bad actors continue to become ever more sophisticated. The cost of complying with stricter and more complex data privacy (such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, which grants expanded rights to access and delete personal information and opt out of certain personal information sharing), data collection and information security laws and standards could also be significant to us. Such laws and standards may also increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with privacy laws and regulations.

Despite our efforts, our security measures may be breached in the future due to a cyber-attack, computer malware viruses, exploitation of hardware and software vulnerabilities, team member error, malfeasance, fraudulent inducement (including so-called “social engineering” attacks and “phishing” scams) or other acts. While we have experienced threats to our data and systems, including phishing attacks, to date we are not aware that we have experienced a material cyber-security breach that has in any manner hindered our operational capabilities. Unauthorized parties may in the future obtain access to our data or the data of our customers, suppliers or team members or may otherwise cause damage to or interfere with our equipment, our data and/or our network including our supply chain. While we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses in any particular situation. Any breach, damage to or interference with our equipment or our network, or unauthorized access in the future could result in significant operational difficulties including legal and financial exposure and damage to our reputation that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. While we also seek to obtain assurances that others we interact with will protect confidential information, there is always the risk that the confidentiality or accessibility of data held or utilized by others may be compromised. If a compromise of our data security or function of our computer systems or website were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and possibly subject us to additional legal, regulatory and operating costs and damage our reputation in the marketplace.

Business interruptions may negatively impact our store hours, operability of our computer systems and the availability and cost of merchandise, which may adversely impact our sales and profitability.

Hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, war or acts of terrorism, public health issues or pandemics or the threat of any of these incidents or others, may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise to sell in our stores, result in certain of our stores being closed for an extended period of time, negatively affect the lives of our customers or team members, or otherwise negatively impact our operations. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to import into the United States due to business interruption (including regulation of exporting or importing), and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs and without an adverse delay, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected.

In the event that commercial transportation, including the global shipping industry, is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted as we may have difficulty receiving merchandise from our suppliers and/or transporting it to our stores.

11

Table of Contents

Terrorist attacks, war in the Middle East, geopolitical unrest or uncertainty or insurrection involving any oil producing country could result in an abrupt increase in the price of crude oil, gasoline and diesel fuel. Such price increases would increase the cost of doing business for us and our suppliers, and also negatively impact our customers’ disposable income, causing an adverse impact on our business, sales, profit margins and results of operations.

We rely extensively on our computer systems and the systems of our business partners to manage inventory, process transactions and report results. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events or occasional system breakdowns related to ordinary use or wear and tear. If our computer systems or those of our business partners fail, we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to process transactions and manage inventory. Any significant business interruptions may make it difficult or impossible to continue operations, and any disaster recovery or crisis management plans we may employ may not suffice in any particular situation to avoid a significant adverse impact to our business, financial condition and our results of operations.

Risks Related to Our Industry and the Business Environment

The COVID-19 pandemic may significantly and adversely impact our business operations, demand for our products, availability of labor, access to inventory, our exposure to litigation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted our business as the uncertainty, volatility and disruption of a new public health crisis emerged in 2020. In our first fiscal quarter of 2020, we experienced disruption to our normal business operations from a number of factors, including the need to rapidly adopt new health and safety measures, significant impact to demand driven by stay at home orders and uncertainty around regulatory, economic and market conditions. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic also created significant volatility in our stock price and may continue to create volatility, which may not be reflective of our actual business and competitive position. While we have taken numerous steps to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations, many uncertainties could still materially impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

Uncertainty remains about the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including whether there will be additional “waves” or other continued periods of increases or spikes in the number of COVID-19 cases in future periods; the severity and transmission rate of “variations” or future mutations of COVID-19; and the development, efficacy, distribution and adoption rates of vaccines for COVID-19 and variants thereof. COVID-19 related factors could adversely impact our ability to staff our stores or distribution centers, result in significant increased expenses related to store cleanings and team member benefits or negatively impact the operations of our suppliers, logistics or transportation providers, and our service providers or subcontractors. Additionally, while we have continued to prioritize the health and safety of our team members and customers as we continue to operate during the COVID-19 pandemic, we face an increased risk of litigation related to our operating environments and depending on the extent and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, may incur significant increased operating costs associated with potential increases in insurance premiums, medical claims costs, and/or workers’ compensation claims costs, which could negatively affect our results of operations both during and after the COVID-19 pandemic.

While we have not experienced widespread store or distribution center closures, it is unknown how the current administration, specific locales or governmental and nongovernmental authorities of jurisdictions in which we and/or our suppliers, distributors and others that we do business with will respond to the continuation of the COVID-19 pandemic. Actions such as quarantine or shelter-in-place measures, limitations on access to unemployment compensation, vaccination or testing requirements, economic measures and other similar actions or requirements could cause disruption to our operations or those of our suppliers, distributors or others that we do business with.

12

Table of Contents
If overall demand for the products we sell declines, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will suffer. Decreased demand could also negatively impact our stock price.

Overall demand for products we sell depends on many factors and may decrease due to any number of reasons, including:

•a decrease in the total number of vehicles on the road or in the number of annual miles driven or significant increase in the use of ride sharing services, because fewer vehicles means less maintenance and repairs, and lower vehicle mileage, which decreases the need for maintenance and repair;
•the economy, because as consumers reduce their discretionary spending by deferring vehicle maintenance or repair, sales may decline and as new car purchases increase, the number of cars requiring maintenance and repair may decrease;
•the weather, because milder weather conditions may lower the failure rates of automobile parts while extended periods of rain and winter precipitation may cause our customers to defer elective maintenance and repair of their vehicles; additionally, overall climate changes could create greater variability in weather events, which may result in greater volatility for our business, or lead to other significant weather conditions that could impact our business;
•the average duration of vehicle manufacturer warranties and average age of vehicles driven, because newer cars typically require fewer repairs and will be repaired by the manufacturers’ dealer networks using dealer parts pursuant to warranties (which have gradually increased in duration and/or mileage expiration over the recent past), while vehicles that are seven years old and older are generally no longer covered under manufacturers’ warranties and tend to need more maintenance and repair;
•an increase in internet-based retailers, because potentially favorable prices and ease of use of purchasing parts via other websites on the internet may decrease the need for customers to visit and purchase their aftermarket parts from our physical stores and may cause fewer customers to order aftermarket parts on our website;
•technological advances, including the rate of adoption of electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles, ride sharing services, alternative modes of transportation, autonomously driven vehicles and future legislation related thereto, and the increase in the quality of vehicles manufactured, because vehicles that need less frequent maintenance or have lower part failure rates will require less frequent repairs using aftermarket parts and, in the case of electric and hybrid vehicles, do not require or require less frequent oil changes; and
•the refusal of vehicle manufacturers to make available diagnostic, repair and maintenance information to the automotive aftermarket industry that our professional and DIY customers require to diagnose, repair and maintain their vehicles, because this may force consumers to have a majority of diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers’ dealer networks.

We may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory or market responses regarding technological adaptation in the automotive industry.

Policy makers in the U.S. may enact legislative or regulatory proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions and encourage more rapid adoption of vehicles that minimize emissions. Such laws, if enacted, are likely to impact our business in a number of ways. For example, significant increases in fuel economy requirements, new federal or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or new federal or state incentive programs that may be imposed on vehicles and automobile fuels could adversely affect annual miles driven, purchases of used vehicles that are likely to have a higher need for maintenance and repair, or the relevancy of the products we sell to new vehicles coming into production. We may not be able to accurately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations with respect to electric vehicles and other technologies that minimize emissions. Additionally, compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. Our inability to appropriately respond to such changes, adapt our business to meet evolving demands or innovate to remain competitive could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

13

Table of Contents
If we are unable to compete successfully against other companies in the automotive aftermarket industry, we may lose customers and our revenues may decline.

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive and influenced by a number of factors, including name recognition, location, price, quality, product availability and customer service. We compete in both the professional and DIY categories of the automotive aftermarket industry, primarily with: (i) national and regional chains of automotive parts stores, (ii) internet-based retailers, (iii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iv) wholesalers or jobbers stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, (v) independently owned stores and (vi) automobile dealers that supply parts. These competitors and the level of competition vary by market. Some of our competitors may possess advantages over us in certain markets we share, including with respect to the level of marketing activities, number of stores, store locations, store layouts, operating histories, name recognition, established customer bases, vendor relationships, prices and product warranties. Internet-based retailers may possess cost advantages over us due to lower overhead costs, time and travel savings and ability to price competitively. In order to compete favorably, we may need to increase delivery speeds and incur higher shipping costs. Consolidation among our competitors could enhance their market share and financial position, provide them with the ability to achieve better purchasing terms and allow them to provide more competitive prices to customers for whom we compete.

In addition, our reputation is critical to our continued success. Customers are increasingly shopping, reading reviews and comparing products and prices online. If we fail to maintain high standards for, or receive negative publicity (whether through social media or traditional media channels) relating to, product safety and quality, as well as our integrity and reputation, we could lose customers to our competition. The products we sell are brands of our vendors and our owned brands. If the perceived quality or value of the brands we sell declines in the eyes of our customers, our results of operations could be negatively affected.

Competition may require us to reduce our prices below our normal selling prices or increase our promotional spending, which could lower our revenue and profitability. Competitive disadvantages may also prevent us from introducing new product lines, require us to discontinue current product offerings, or change some of our current operating strategies. If we do not have the resources, expertise and consistent execution, or otherwise fail to develop successful strategies, to address these potential competitive disadvantages, we may lose customers, our revenues and profit margins may decline and we may be less profitable or potentially unprofitable.

Our inventory and ability to meet customer expectations may be adversely impacted by factors out of our control.

For the portion of our inventory manufactured and/or sourced outside the United States, geopolitical changes, changes in trade regulations or tariff rates, currency fluctuations, work stoppages, labor strikes, port delays, civil unrest, natural disasters, pandemics and other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages that could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, unanticipated changes in consumer preferences or any unforeseen hurdles in meeting our customers’ needs for automotive products (particularly parts availability) in a timely manner could undermine our business strategy.

Deterioration of general macroeconomic conditions, including unemployment, inflation or deflation, consumer debt levels, and/or high fuel and energy costs, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows due to impacts on our suppliers, customers and operating costs.

Our business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our suppliers and on our suppliers’ ability and willingness to sell quality products to us at favorable prices and terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these suppliers to sell us products on favorable terms. Such factors include a general decline in the economy and economic conditions and prolonged recessionary conditions. These events could negatively affect our suppliers’ operations and make it difficult for them to obtain the credit lines or loans necessary to finance their operations in the short-term or long-term and meet our product requirements. Financial or operational difficulties that some of our suppliers may face could also increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or our ability to source products from them. We might not be able to pass our increased costs onto our customers. If our suppliers fail to develop new products, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our results of operations could be negatively affected.

14

Table of Contents
In addition, the trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers as well as the off-shoring of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries may disrupt or end our relationship with some suppliers, and could lead to less competition and result in higher prices. We could also be negatively impacted by suppliers who might experience bankruptcies, work stoppages, labor strikes, changes in foreign or domestic trade policies, changes in tariff rates or other interruptions to or difficulties in the manufacture or supply of the products we purchase from them.

Deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or an increase in fuel costs or proposed or additional tariffs may have a negative impact on our customers’ net worth, financial resources, disposable income or willingness or ability to pay for accessories, maintenance or repairs for their vehicles, resulting in lower sales. An increase in fuel costs may also reduce the overall number of miles driven by our customers resulting in fewer parts failures and a reduced need for elective maintenance.

Rising energy prices also directly impact our operating and product costs, including our store, supply chain, professional delivery, utility and product acquisition costs.

Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Financial Condition

The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation.

The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions. Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts’ expectations. Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. For example, in February 2018, following a significant decline in the price of our common stock, a putative class action was commenced against us, for which a settlement agreement, covered by our insurance, has been preliminarily approved by the court (see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business.

The amount and frequency of our share repurchases and dividend payments may fluctuate.

The amount, timing and execution of our share repurchase program may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes such as operational spending, capital spending, acquisitions or repayment of debt. Changes in cash flows, tax laws and our share price could also impact our share repurchase program and other capital activities. Additionally, decisions to return capital to stockholders, including through our repurchase program or the issuance of dividends on our common stock, remain subject to determination of our Board of Directors that any such activity is in the best interests of our stockholders and is in compliance with all applicable laws and contractual obligations.

Our level of indebtedness, a downgrade in our credit ratings or a deterioration in global credit markets could limit the cash flow available for operations and could adversely affect our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing.

Our level of indebtedness could restrict our operations and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations. For example, our level of indebtedness could, among other things:

•affect our liquidity by limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital;
•limit our ability to obtain financing for capital expenditures and acquisitions or make any available financing more costly;
•require us to dedicate all or a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt, which would reduce funds available for other business purposes, such as capital expenditures, dividends or acquisitions;
•limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the markets in which we compete;
•place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors who may have less indebtedness;
•render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and
•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations.

The indenture governing our notes and credit agreement governing our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, including such notes.

15

Table of Contents

In addition, our overall credit rating may be negatively impacted by deteriorating and uncertain credit markets or other factors that may or may not be within our control. The interest rates on our revolving credit facility are linked directly to our credit ratings and the interest rates on future debt we issue or incur likely would be affected by our credit ratings in effect at the time such debt is issued or incurred. Accordingly, any negative impact on our credit ratings would likely result in higher interest rates and interest expense on any borrowings under our revolving credit facility and less favorable terms on our other operating and financing arrangements, including additional debt we may issue or incur in the future. In addition, it could reduce the attractiveness of certain vendor payment programs whereby third-party institutions finance arrangements to our vendors based on our credit rating, which could result in increased working capital requirements.

Conditions and events in the global credit market could have a material adverse effect on our access to short- and long-term borrowings to finance our operations and the terms and cost of that debt. It is possible that one or more of the banks that provide us with financing under our revolving credit facility may fail to honor the terms of our existing credit facility or be financially unable to provide the unused credit as a result of significant deterioration in such bank’s financial condition. An inability to obtain sufficient financing at cost-effective rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2. Properties.

The following table summarizes the location, ownership status and total square footage of space utilized for distribution centers, principal corporate offices and retail stores and branches at the end of 2021:

---------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----- -----
 Square Footage (in thousands)
 Location Leased Owned
Distribution centers 52 locations in 32 U.S. states and four Canadian provinces 7,825 4,401
Principal corporate offices:
Raleigh, NC Raleigh, NC 285 —
Roanoke, VA Roanoke, VA 265 —
Stores and branches 4,801 stores and branches in 49 U.S. states and two U.S. territories and 171 stores and branches in nine Canadian provinces 35,001 6,300

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

On February 6, 2018, a putative class action on behalf of purchasers of our securities who purchased or otherwise acquired their securities between November 14, 2016 and August 15, 2017, inclusive (the “Class Period”), was commenced against us and certain of our current and former officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The plaintiff alleged that the defendants failed to disclose material adverse facts about our financial well-being, business relationships, and prospects during the alleged Class Period in violation of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. On February 7, 2020, the court granted in part and denied in part our motion to dismiss. On November 6, 2020, the court granted the plaintiff’s motion for class certification. On March 15, 2021, we moved for reconsideration of the order denying in part our motion to dismiss, and on October 15, 2021, we filed a motion for summary judgment, seeking full dismissal of the case. Following mediation, on November 5, 2021, the parties executed a confidential binding term sheet to settle all claims and on December 23, 2021, the parties executed a settlement agreement fully documenting their agreement. The settlement agreement received preliminary approval from the court on January 11, 2022 and remains subject to final court approval. The settlement amount of $49.3 million will be fully covered by our insurance carriers, and the settlement is subject to court approval.

Refer to discussion in Note 13. Contingencies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for information relating to additional legal proceedings.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not applicable.

16

Table of Contents
PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AAP.”

As of February 11, 2022, there were 281 holders of record of our common stock, which does not include the number of beneficial owners whose shares were represented by security position listings.

The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases of our common stock for the fourth quarter ended January 1, 2022:

------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ -------------------------------- - ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------- - -------
Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share (1) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs Maximum Dollar Value that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs (in thousands) (2)
October 10, 2021 to November 6, 2021 53,462 $ 222.35 53,424 $ 628,625
November 7, 2021 to December 4, 2021 139,531 $ 226.52 131,861 $ 598,802
December 5, 2021 to January 1, 2022 231,438 $ 230.18 231,438 $ 545,529
Total 424,431 $ 228.00 416,723

(1)The aggregate cost of repurchasing shares in connection with the net settlement of shares issued as a result of the vesting of restricted stock units was $1.8 million, or an average price of $232.51 per share, during the 12 weeks ended January 1, 2022.
(2)On April 19, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion share repurchase program. This authorization was incremental to the $700.0 million share repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors in November 2019.

17

Table of Contents
Stock Price Performance

The following graph shows a comparison of the cumulative total return on our common stock, the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 Index and the Standard & Poor’s Retail Index. The graph assumes that the value of an investment in our common stock and in each such index was $100 on December 31, 2016, and that any dividends have been reinvested. The comparison in the graph below is based solely on historical data and is not intended to forecast the possible future performance of our common stock.

COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG
ADVANCE AUTO PARTS, INC., S&P 500 INDEX
AND S&P RETAIL INDEX

------------------ ----------------- ------ ----------------- ----------------- ------ ----------------- --------------- ------ --------------- - ------ - ------ - ------
Company/Index December 31, 2016 December 30, 2017 December 29, 2018 December 28, 2019 January 2, 2021 January 1, 2022
Advance Auto Parts $ 100.00 $ 59.07 $ 92.28 $ 94.13 $ 94.35 $ 145.95
S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 $ 121.83 $ 115.49 $ 153.58 $ 181.35 $ 233.41
S&P Retail Index $ 100.00 $ 129.10 $ 143.49 $ 183.63 $ 265.32 $ 411.30

18

Table of Contents
Item 6. [Reserved]

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated historical financial statements and the notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this report. Our discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth under the section titled “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors” elsewhere in this report. The discussion of our financial condition and changes in our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources for 2020 compared with 2019 has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but are included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 22, 2021. Amounts are presented in thousands, except per share data, unless otherwise stated.

Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business

During the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to prioritize the health, safety and wellbeing of our team members and customers; are working to drive financial performance by preserving our cash position, scrutinized planned spending and the prioritization of various initiatives; and will ensure that when the current period of crisis passes, our team will emerge even stronger. During 2021, the principal impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business were related to difficulty with staffing in our distribution centers and stores as a result of direct factors, such as illness, and indirect factors, such as heightened competition for talent in a volatile labor market and supply chain disruption. In addition, we continued to take additional measures to help ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of our team members and customers, including investing in cleaning materials and testing supplies.

The COVID-19 pandemic remains an evolving situation and we continue to actively monitor developments that may cause us to take further actions as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our team members, customers, suppliers and stockholders.

Management Overview

Net sales increased 8.8% in 2021 compared with 2020, driven by an increase in comparable store sales of 10.7%. Comparable store sales exclude week 53 of 2020. Ongoing economic recovery throughout the year, namely in key urban markets where miles driven were most impacted in 2020, contributed to strong recovery of our professional business and an increase in demand in our “do-it-yourself” (“DIY”) business.

We generated Diluted earnings per share (“Diluted EPS”) of $9.55 during 2021 compared with $7.14 in 2020. When adjusted for the following non-operational items, our Adjusted diluted earnings per share (“Adjusted EPS”) in 2021 was $12.02 compared with $8.36 in 2020:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------- ---- --------------- - ------
 Year Ended
 January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021
Last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) impacts $ 1.42 $ (0.15)
Transformation expenses $ 0.73 $ 0.55
General Parts International, Inc. (“GPI”) amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 0.32 $ 0.30
Other adjustments $ — $ 0.52

Refer to “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for a definition and reconciliation of Adjusted EPS and other non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.

19

Table of Contents
A high-level summary of our financial results and other highlights from 2021 include:

•Net sales during 2021 were $11.0 billion, an increase of 8.8% compared with 2020, which was driven by the strong recovery in our professional business and growth in our DIY omnichannel business. Prior year Net sales included $158.5 million attributable to the additional week in 2020. Comparable store sales in 2021 increased 10.7%, which was a result positive comparable store sales across every region, with the Southwest and West having the strongest growth.
•Gross profit margin for 2021 was 44.8% of Net sales, an increase of 47 basis points compared with 2020. This increase was primarily due to improvements in category management, including strategic pricing and sourcing and owned brand expansion, partially offset by ongoing inflationary costs and unfavorable channel mix.
•Operating income for 2021 was $838.7 million, an increase of $88.8 million from 2020. As a percentage of Net sales, operating income was 7.6%, an increase of 21 basis points compared with 2020. The favorable impact in Gross profit was partially offset by increased Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) costs primarily driven by inflationary labor-related headwinds, as well as increased incentive compensation and start-up costs associated with new store openings. This was partially offset by a year-over-year decrease in COVID-19 expenses.
•We generated cash flow from operations of $1.11 billion during 2021, an increase of 14.7% compared with 2020, primarily due to an increase in Net income, as well as improvements related to working capital.

Refer to “Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further details on our results.

Business and Risk Update

We continue to make progress on the various elements of our strategic business plan, which is focused on improving the customer experience and driving consistent execution for both professional and DIY customers. To achieve these improvements, we have undertaken planned strategic initiatives to help build a foundation for long-term success across the organization, which include:

•Continued development of a demand-based assortment, leveraging purchase and search history from our common catalog, versus our existing push-down supply approach.
•Advancement towards optimizing our footprint by market, including consolidating our Worldpac and Autopart International businesses, to drive share, repurpose our in-market store and asset base and streamline our distribution network.
•Continued evolution of our marketing campaigns, which focus on our customers and how we serve them every day with care and speed and innovate to meet their needs, inclusive of the iconic DieHard® brand.
•Progress in the implementation of a more efficient end-to-end supply chain to deliver our broad assortment of inventory.
•Enhancement of Advance Same Day® Curbside Pick Up, Advance Same Day® Home Delivery and our mobile application and e-commerce performance.
•Actively pursuing new store openings in 2022, including through lease acquisition opportunities as available and appropriate, in existing markets and new markets, as well as expansion of our independent Carquest network.

Industry Update

Operating within the automotive aftermarket industry, we are influenced by a number of general macroeconomic factors, many of which are similar to those affecting the overall retail industry. In addition to the “Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business” section included within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, these factors include, but are not limited to:

•Fuel costs
•Unemployment rates
•Consumer confidence
•Competition
•Changes in new car sales
•Miles driven
•Vehicle manufacturer warranties
•Average age of vehicles in operation
•Economic and political uncertainty
•Deferral of elective automotive maintenance and improvements in new car quality

20

Table of Contents
While these factors tend to fluctuate, we remain confident in the long-term growth prospects for the automotive parts industry.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth certain of our operating data expressed as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated.

--------------------------- --------------- -------- --------------------- ----- ----------------- ------- --------------------- -------- ------------ ----- ------- ----- ------- ------ - ---- ----- ------ -- ---- - ----- ----
 Year Ended 2021 vs. 2020$ Change Basis Points 2020 vs. 2019$ Change Basis Points
(in millions) January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021 December 28, 2019
Net sales $ 10,998.0 100.0 % $ 10,106.3 100.0 % $ 9,709.0 100.0 % $ 891.7 — $ 397.3 —
Cost of sales 6,069.2 55.2 5,624.7 55.7 5,454.3 56.2 444.5 (47) 170.4 (52)
Gross profit 4,928.7 44.8 4,481.6 44.3 4,254.7 43.8 447.2 47 226.9 52
SG&A 4,090.0 37.2 3,731.7 36.9 3,577.6 36.8 358.3 26 154.1 8
Operating income 838.7 7.6 749.9 7.4 677.2 7.0 88.9 21 72.8 45
Interest expense (37.8) (0.3) (46.9) (0.5) (39.9) (0.4) 9.1 12 (7.0) (5)
Loss on debt extinguishment — — (48.0) (0.5) (10.8) (0.1) 48.0 48 (37.2) (36)
Other income (expense), net 5.0 0.0 (4.0) 0.0 11.2 0.1 9.0 8 (15.2) (15)
Provision for income taxes (189.8) (1.7) (158.0) (1.6) (150.9) (1.6) (31.8) (16) (7.1) (1)
Net income $ 616.1 5.6 % $ 493.0 4.9 % $ 486.8 5.0 % $ 123.2 72 $ 6.3 (14)

Note 1: Table amounts may not foot due to rounding.
Note 2: Fiscal years 2021 and 2019 included 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2020 included 53 weeks.

Net Sales

Net sales for 2021 were $11.0 billion, an increase of $891.7 million, or 8.8%, compared with 2020, which was driven by an increase in comparable store sales of 10.7% resulting from strong recovery of our professional business and growth in our DIY omnichannel business. We experienced positive comparable store sales across every region, with the Southwest and West having the strongest growth. Net sales growth was less than comparable store sales due to 2020 including $158.5 million attributable to the 53rd week.

We calculate comparable store sales based on the change in store or branch sales starting once a location has been open for 13 complete accounting periods (approximately one year) and by including e-commerce sales. Sales to independently owned Carquest stores are excluded from our comparable store sales. Acquired stores are included in our comparable store sales once the stores have completed 13 complete accounting periods following the acquisition date. We include sales from relocated stores in comparable store sales from the original date of opening. Net sales for the 53rd week in a year are not included in the comparable sales calculation for that year. For example, our comparable sales results for 2021 compare the 52-week period in 2021 to weeks 1 through 52 reported in 2020. Comparable sales is intended only as supplemental information and is not a substitute for Net sales presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).

Gross Profit

Gross profit in 2021 was $4.93 billion, or 44.8% of Net sales, compared with $4.48 billion, or 44.3% of Net sales, in 2020, an increase of 47 basis points. The increase in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to improvements in category management including strategic pricing and sourcing and owned brand expansion. This was partially offset by ongoing inflationary costs and unfavorable channel mix.

As a result of changes in our LIFO reserve, an increase of $122.3 million and a benefit of $13.8 million were included in Cost of sales in 2021 and 2020.

21

Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

SG&A for 2021 was $4.09 billion, or 37.2% of Net sales, compared with $3.73 billion, or 36.9% of Net sales, for 2020, an increase of 26 basis points. This increase as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to increased labor and related payroll expenses resulting from inflationary labor-related headwinds, increased incentive compensation resulting from higher Net sales and start-up costs associated with our new store openings, offset by a decrease in COVID-19 expenses. The additional week in 2020 contributed $53.5 million to SG&A.

Interest Expense

Interest expense for 2021 was $37.8 million, an increase of $9.1 million compared with 2020. This increase was primarily due to the issuance of $500.0 million of our 3.900% senior unsecured notes due 2030 on April 16, 2020 and $350.0 million of our 1.750% senior unsecured notes due 2027 on September 29, 2020. Refer to Note 6. Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for further details.

Loss on Early Redemptions of Senior Unsecured Notes

During the fifty-three weeks ended January 2, 2021, we incurred charges of $48.0 million related to the early redemption of our 2022 and 2023 senior unsecured notes. Refer to Note 6. Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for further details.

Provision for Income Taxes

Our Provision for income taxes for 2021 was $189.8 million compared with $158.0 million for 2020, an increase of $31.8 million primarily due to an increase in taxable income. Our effective tax rate was 23.6% for 2021 and 24.3% for 2020. During 2021, the driver of the decrease in tax expense resulted from a benefit relating to share-based awards and greater utilization of tax credits.

22

Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” includes certain financial measures not derived in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures, including Adjusted net income and Adjusted EPS, should not be used as a substitute for GAAP financial measures, or considered in isolation, for the purpose of analyzing our operating performance, financial position or cash flows. We have presented these non-GAAP financial measures as we believe that the presentation of our financial results that exclude: (1) LIFO impacts; (2) transformation expenses under our strategic business plan; (3) non-cash amortization related to the acquired GPI intangible assets; and (4) other nonrecurring adjustments, are useful and indicative of our base operations because the expenses vary from period to period in terms of size, nature and significance and/or relate to store closure and consolidation activity in excess of historical levels. These measures assist in comparing our current operating results with past periods and with the operational performance of other companies in our industry. The disclosure of these measures allows investors to evaluate our performance using the same measures management uses in developing internal budgets and forecasts and in evaluating management’s compensation. Included below is a description of the expenses we have determined are not normal, recurring cash operating expenses necessary to operate our business and the rationale for why providing these measures is useful to investors as a supplement to the GAAP measures.

LIFO Impacts — Beginning the first quarter of 2021, to assist in comparing our current operating results with the operational performance of other companies in our industry, the impact of LIFO on our results of operations is a reconciling item to arrive at non-GAAP financial measures.

Transformation Expenses — Costs incurred in connection with our business plan that focuses on specific transformative activities that relate to the integration and streamlining of our operating structure across the enterprise, that we do not view to be normal cash operating expenses. These expenses will include, but not be limited to the following:

•Restructuring costs - Costs primarily relating to the early termination of lease obligations, asset impairment charges, other facility closure costs and team member severance in connection with our voluntary retirement program and continued optimization of our organization.
•Third-party professional services - Costs primarily relating to services rendered by vendors for assisting us with the development of various information technology and supply chain projects in connection with our enterprise integration initiatives.
•Other significant costs - Costs primarily relating to accelerated depreciation of various legacy information technology and supply chain systems in connection with our enterprise integration initiatives and temporary off-site workspace for project teams who are primarily working on the development of specific transformative activities that relate to the integration and streamlining of our operating structure across the enterprise.

GPI Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets — As part of our acquisition of GPI, we obtained various intangible assets, including customer relationships, non-compete contracts and favorable lease agreements, which we expect to be subject to amortization through 2025.

23

Table of Contents
We have included a reconciliation of this information to the most comparable GAAP measures in the following table:

---------------------------------------------- --------------- ------- --------------- -------- - -------
 Year Ended
 January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021
Net income (GAAP) $ 616,108 $ 493,021
Cost of sales adjustments:
LIFO impacts (1) 122,303 (13,817)
Transformation expenses:

Other significant costs 2,608 3,161

SG&A adjustments:
GPI amortization of acquired intangible assets 27,587 27,337
Transformation expenses:
Restructuring costs 27,307 16,765
Third-party professional services 24,099 14,117
Other significant costs 8,796 15,965
Other income adjustment (2) — 48,022
Provision for income taxes on adjustments (3) (53,175) (27,888)

Adjusted net income (Non-GAAP) $ 775,633 $ 576,683

Diluted earnings per share (GAAP) $ 9.55 $ 7.14
Adjustments, net of tax 2.47 1.22
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (Non-GAAP) $ 12.02 $ 8.36

(1)For the 53 weeks ended January 2, 2021, non-GAAP expenses have been adjusted to be comparable with our 2021 presentation.
(2)During 2020, we incurred charges relating to a make-whole provision and tender premiums of $46.3 million and debt issuance costs of $1.7 million resulting from the early redemption of our 2022 and 2023 senior unsecured notes.
(3)The income tax impact of non-GAAP adjustments is calculated using the estimated tax rate in effect for the respective non-GAAP adjustments.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

Our primary cash requirements necessary to maintain our current operations include payroll and benefits, inventory purchases, contractual obligations, capital expenditures, payment of income taxes, funding of initiatives under our strategic business plan and other operational priorities. Historically, we have used available funds to repay borrowings under our credit facility, to periodically repurchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program, to pay our quarterly cash dividends and for acquisitions; however, given uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic, our future uses of cash may differ if our relative priorities, including the weight we place on the preservation of cash and liquidity, change. Typically, we have funded our cash requirements primarily through cash generated from operations, supplemented by borrowings under our credit facilities and notes offerings as needed. We believe funds generated from our expected results of operations, available cash and cash equivalents, and available borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our obligations for the next year. We also believe such funds, cash and available borrowings, together with our ability to generate cash through credit facilities and notes offerings as needed, will be sufficient to fund our obligations long-term. Cash requirements for obligations next year and beyond are discussed in the “Contractual and Off Balance Sheet Obligations” section below.

Share Repurchases

In April 2021 and November 2019, our Board of Directors authorized $1.0 billion and $700.0 million for our share repurchase program. On February 8, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion toward the existing share repurchase program.

24

Table of Contents
During 2021, we repurchased 4.6 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $886.7 million, or an average price of $192.92 per share, in connection with our share repurchase program.

We had $545.5 million remaining under our share repurchase program as of January 1, 2022. During 2020, we repurchased 3.0 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $458.5 million, or an average price of $150.65 per share, under our share repurchase program. Refer to “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for further details on our share repurchase program.

Capital Expenditures

Our primary capital requirements have been the funding of our investments in supply chain and information technology, e-commerce and maintenance of existing stores and branches. We lease approximately 83% of our stores and branches.

Our capital expenditures were $289.6 million in 2021, an increase of $22.1 million from 2020, and was primarily related to several information technology projects, including our finance enterprise resource planning system, as well as investments in supply chain and store improvements.

Our future capital requirements will depend in large part on the timing or number of the investments we make in information technology and supply chain network initiatives and existing stores and new store development (leased and owned locations) within a given year. In 2022, we anticipate that our capital expenditures related to such investments will range from $300 million to $350 million, but may vary with business conditions.

Analysis of Cash Flows

The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities:

---------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- --------------- --------- ----------------- ------- --------- - ---------
 Year Ended
 January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021 December 28, 2019
Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 1,112,262 $ 969,688 $ 866,909
Cash flows used in investing activities (287,314) (266,897) (462,939)
Cash flows used in financing activities (1,064,112) (285,997) (882,153)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 5,600 (467) 321
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (233,564) $ 416,327 $ (477,862)

Operating Activities

In 2021, Net cash provided by operating activities increased $142.6 million to $1.11 billion. The net increase in cash flows provided by operating activities compared with the prior year was primarily driven by an increase in Net income, which was a result of our significant Net sales growth related to the strong recovery of our professional business and growth in our DIY omnichannel business, as well as improvements in working capital. In the current year, working capital included an increase in cash provided by Accrued expenses and Accounts payable, partially offset by an increase in cash used by Inventories. Refer to “Results of Operations” for further details on our results.

Investing Activities

In 2021, Net cash used in investing activities increased by $20.4 million to $287.3 million compared with 2020. Cash used in investing activities for 2021 consisted primarily of purchases of property and equipment, which was comparable with capital expenditures in 2020.

Financing Activities

In 2021, Net cash used in financing activities increased by $778.1 million to $1.06 billion compared with 2020, primarily due to higher share repurchase activity of $436.5 million and an increase of quarterly dividends per share.

25

Table of Contents
Our Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend since 2006. Any payments of dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. On February 14, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.50 per share to be paid on April 1, 2022 to shareholders of record as of March 18, 2022.

Long-Term Debt

As of January 1, 2022, we had a credit rating from the S&P of BBB- and from Moody’s Investor Service of Baa2. The current outlooks by the S&P and Moody’s are both stable. The current pricing grid used to determine our borrowing rate under our revolving credit facility is based on our credit ratings. If these credit ratings decline, our interest rate on outstanding balances may increase and our access to additional financing on favorable terms may be limited. In addition, it could reduce the attractiveness of certain vendor payment programs whereby third-party institutions finance arrangements to our vendors based on our credit rating, which could result in increased working capital requirements. Conversely, if these credit ratings improve, our interest rate may decrease.

With respect to all senior unsecured notes for which Advance Auto Parts, Inc. (“Issuer”) is an issuer or provides full and unconditional guarantee, Advance Stores, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Issuer, serves as the guarantor (“Guarantor Subsidiary”). The subsidiary guarantees related to our senior unsecured notes are full and unconditional and joint and several, and there are no restrictions on the ability of the Issuer to obtain funds from its Guarantor Subsidiary. Our captive insurance subsidiary, an insignificant wholly owned subsidiary of the Issuer, does not serve as guarantor of our senior unsecured notes.

For additional information on transactions entered into relating to Long-term debt during the fifty-two weeks ended January 1, 2022, refer to Note 6. Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.

Contractual and Off Balance Sheet Obligations

We enter into operating leases for certain store locations, distribution centers, office spaces, equipment and vehicles. Our property leases generally contain renewal and escalation clauses and other concessions. These provisions are considered in our calculation of our minimum lease payments that are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the applicable lease term. Any lease payments that are based upon an existing index or rate are included in our minimum lease payment calculations. As of January 1, 2022, our operating lease obligations were $2.80 billion. As of January 1, 2022, our long-term debt, consisting of senior unsecured notes with varying maturities through 2030, was $1.04 billion. Interest payable related to long-term debt was $219.9 million as of January 1, 2022. As part of our normal operations, we enter into purchase commitments primarily for the purchase of goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. As of January 1, 2022, our purchase commitments were $70.3 million.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations are based on these financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires the application of accounting policies in addition to certain estimates and judgments by our management. Our estimates and judgments are based on currently available information, historical results and other assumptions we believe are reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.

The preparation of our financial statements included the following significant estimates and exercise of judgment.

Vendor Incentives

We receive incentives in the form of reductions to amounts owed and/or payments from vendors related to volume rebates and other promotional considerations. Many of these incentives are under agreements with terms in excess of one year, while others are negotiated on an annual basis or less. Advertising allowances provided as a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote a vendor’s products are included as an offset to SG&A when the cost is incurred. Volume rebates and vendor promotional allowances that do not meet the requirements for offsetting in SG&A and that are earned based on inventory purchases are initially recorded as a reduction to inventory. These deferred amounts are recorded as a reduction to Cost of sales as the inventory is sold.

26

Table of Contents
Vendor promotional allowances provided as a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote a vendor’s products are included as an offset to SG&A when the cost is incurred if the fair value of that benefit can be reasonably estimated. Certain of our vendor agreements contain purchase volume incentives that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met. Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected annual purchase volumes. Periodic assessments of the accruals are performed to determine the appropriateness of the estimate and are adjusted for accordingly.

Amounts received or receivable from vendors that are not yet earned are reflected as deferred revenue. Our estimate of the portion of deferred revenue that will be realized within one year of the balance sheet date is included in Other current liabilities. Earned amounts that are receivable from vendors are included in Receivables, net, except for that portion expected to be received after one year, which is included in Other assets, net. We regularly review the receivables from vendors to ensure they are able to meet their obligations. Historically, the change in our reserve for receivables related to vendor funding has not been significant.

Self-Insurance Reserves

Our self-insurance reserves consist of the estimated exposure for claims filed, claims incurred but not yet reported and projected future claims, and are established using actuarial methods followed in the insurance industry and our historical claims experience. Specific factors include, but are not limited to, assumptions about health care costs, the severity of accidents and the incidence of illness and the average size of claims. Generally, claims for automobile and general liability and workers’ compensation take several years to settle. We classify the portion of our self-insurance reserves that is not expected to be settled within one year in Other long-term liabilities.

While we do not expect the amounts ultimately paid to differ significantly from our estimates, our self-insurance reserves and corresponding SG&A could be affected if future claim experience differs significantly from historical trends and actuarial assumptions. A 10% change in our self-insurance liabilities at January 1, 2022 would result in a change in expense of approximately $13.4 million for 2021.

New Accounting Pronouncements

For a description of recently adopted and issued accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see “Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements” in Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Refer to Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[Refer to Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[refer to Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[PART II

Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37
