================================================================================
CIK: 0001324404
Company Name: CF Industries Holdings, Inc
Filing Date: 2022-02-24
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 05:05:52
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview of CF Holdings—Market Conditions and Current Developments—United Kingdom Energy Crisis.
Billingham, United Kingdom
The Billingham facility, located in the Teesside chemical area in northeastern England, is geographically split among three primary locations: the main site, which contains an ammonia plant, three nitric acid plants and a carbon dioxide plant; the Portrack site, approximately two miles away, which contains an AN fertilizer plant; and the North Tees site, approximately seven miles away, which contains an ammonia storage area. These locations collectively have on-site storage for 40,000 tons of ammonia and 128,000 tons of AN.
Point Lisas, Trinidad
The Point Lisas Nitrogen facility in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is owned jointly through a 50/50 venture with Koch Fertilizer LLC. This facility has the capacity to produce 720,000 tons of ammonia annually from natural gas supplied under a contract with The National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited (NGC).
Nitrogen Product Raw Materials
Natural gas is the principal raw material and primary fuel source used in the ammonia production process at our nitrogen manufacturing facilities. In 2021, natural gas accounted for approximately 40% of our total production costs for nitrogen products. Our nitrogen manufacturing facilities have access to abundant, competitively-priced natural gas through a reliable network of pipelines that are connected to major natural gas trading hubs. Our facilities utilize the following natural gas hubs: Henry Hub in Louisiana; SONAT and TETCO ELA in Louisiana; ONEOK in Oklahoma; AECO in Alberta; Ventura in Iowa; Demarcation in Kansas; Welcome in Minnesota; Dawn and Parkway in Ontario; and the National Balancing Point (NBP) in the United Kingdom.
In 2021, our nitrogen manufacturing facilities consumed, in the aggregate, approximately 335 million MMBtus of natural gas. We employ a combination of daily spot and term purchases from a variety of quality suppliers to maintain a reliable, competitively-priced supply of natural gas. We also use certain financial instruments to hedge natural gas prices. See Note 16—Derivative Financial Instruments for additional information about our natural gas hedging activities.
Nitrogen Product Distribution
The safe, efficient and economical distribution of nitrogen products is critical for successful operations. Our nitrogen production facilities have access to multiple transportation modes by which we ship products to terminals, warehouses and customers. Each of our production facilities has a unique distribution pattern based on its production capacity and location.

6

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Our North American nitrogen production facilities can ship products via truck and rail to customers and to our storage facilities in the U.S. and Canada, with access to our leased railcar fleet of approximately 5,000 tank and hopper cars, as well as railcars provided by rail carriers. Our United Kingdom nitrogen production facilities mainly ship products via truck.
The North American waterway system is also used extensively to ship products from our Donaldsonville, Verdigris and Yazoo City facilities. To ship ammonia and UAN, we employ a fleet of ten tow boats and twenty-eight river barges, which are primarily leased. We also utilize contract marine services to move granular urea. We can also export nitrogen products via seagoing vessels from our Donaldsonville, Yazoo City, Billingham and Ince manufacturing facilities.
The Donaldsonville facility is connected to the 2,000-mile long Nustar pipeline through which we have the ability to transport ammonia to ten terminals and shipping points in the Midwestern U.S. corn belt.
Storage Facilities and Other Properties
As of December 31, 2021, we owned or leased space at 51 in-market storage terminals and warehouses located in a 21-state region of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Including storage at our production facilities, we have an aggregate storage capacity for approximately 3.0 million tons of product. Our storage capabilities are summarized in the following table:

-------------------------------- ------------------- ------------------ --- ------------------- ------------------ --- ------------------- --- ------------------ ------------------- ------------------ --- --- - ---
 Ammonia Granular Urea UAN(1) AN
 Number ofFacilities Capacity(000 Tons) Number ofFacilities Capacity(000 Tons) Number ofFacilities Capacity(000 Tons) Number ofFacilities Capacity(000 Tons)
Plants 9 546 3 320 6 549 3 234
Terminal and Warehouse Locations
Owned(2) 22 780 — — 8 209 — —
Leased(3) 6 89 2 32 21 276 — —
Total In-Market 28 869 2 32 29 485 — —
Total Storage Capacity 1,415 352 1,034 234

_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)Capacity is expressed as the equivalent volume of UAN measured on a 32% nitrogen content basis.
(2)The owned facilities that store UAN also can store ammonia.
(3)Our lease agreements are typically for periods of one to five years.
Customers
The principal customers for our nitrogen products are cooperatives, independent fertilizer distributors, traders, wholesalers and industrial users. Sales are generated by our internal marketing and sales force. CHS was our largest customer in 2021 and accounted for approximately 14% of our consolidated net sales. We have a strategic venture with CHS under which CHS has a minority equity interest in CFN. See Note 18—Noncontrolling Interest for additional information on our strategic venture with CHS.
Competition
Our markets are global and intensely competitive, based primarily on delivered price and, to a lesser extent, on customer service and product quality. During the peak demand periods, product availability and delivery time also play a role in the buying decisions of customers.
Our primary North American-based competitors include Nutrien Ltd., Koch Fertilizer LLC and Iowa Fertilizer Company. There is also significant competition from products sourced from other regions of the world, including some with lower natural gas or other feedstock costs, which may include the benefit of government subsidies. Because ammonia, urea and UAN are widely-traded fertilizer products and there are limited barriers to entry, we experience competition from foreign-sourced products continuously. Producers of nitrogen-based fertilizers located in the Middle East, the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, North Africa and Russia have been major exporters to North America in recent years.
Our primary United Kingdom competition comes from imported products supplied by companies including Yara International, Origin Fertilisers, Ameropa, CHS and Helm. Urea and UAN are not produced in the United Kingdom, but along with AN are widely-traded fertilizer products with limited barriers to entry.

7

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Seasonality
The fertilizer business is seasonal. The degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to weather conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. The strongest demand for our products in North America occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. In contrast, we and other fertilizer producers generally manufacture and distribute products throughout the year. As a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the short application season and the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand generally results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the start of the spring planting season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns.
Environmental, Health and Safety
We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union and the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, including laws and regulations relating to the generation and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; the introduction of new chemicals or substances into a market; the cleanup of hazardous substance releases; the discharge of regulated substances to air or water; and the demolition of existing plant sites upon permanent closure. In the United States, these laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and various other federal, state and local statutes. Violations of environmental, health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. In addition, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on potentially responsible parties who have released or disposed of hazardous substances into the environment. We may be subject to more stringent enforcement of existing or new environmental, health and safety laws in the future.
Environmental, Health and Safety Expenditures
Our environmental, health and safety capital expenditures in 2021 totaled approximately $31 million. We estimate that we will have approximately $63 million of capital expenditures for environmental, health and safety in 2022. In addition, to support safe and reliable operations at our continuous process manufacturing facilities, we conduct scheduled inspections, replacements and overhauls of our plant machinery and equipment, which are referred to as turnarounds. A further description of turnaround activities is included in Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment—Net to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We expect that continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues will result in increased future expenditures for environmental controls at our manufacturing and distribution facilities. Such expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or reinterpretation of current laws and regulations may require us to make substantial expenditures. Our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
CERCLA/Remediation Matters
From time to time, we receive notices from governmental agencies or third parties alleging that we are a potentially responsible party at certain cleanup sites under CERCLA or other environmental cleanup laws. In 2011, we received a notice from the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ) that alleged that we were a potentially responsible party for the cleanup of a former phosphate mine site we owned in the late 1950s and early 1960s located in Georgetown Canyon, Idaho. The current owner of the property and a former mining contractor received similar notices for the site. Based on a Consent Order entered into with IDEQ and the U.S. Forest Service in 2014, we and the current property owner are currently conducting a remedial investigation and feasibility study of the site. In 2015, we and several other parties received a notice that the U.S. Department of the Interior and other trustees intend to undertake a natural resource damage assessment for 18 former phosphate mines and three former processing facilities in southeast Idaho, which includes the Georgetown Canyon former mine and processing facility. See Note 21—Contingencies for additional information.

8

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Regulation of Greenhouse Gases
Our production facilities emit greenhouse gases (GHGs), such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide. Natural gas, a fossil fuel, is a primary raw material used in our nitrogen production process. We are subject to GHG regulations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States.
Our U.K. manufacturing plants are required to report GHG emissions annually to the United Kingdom Environment Agency pursuant to their site Environmental Permits and Climate Change Agreement, which specify energy efficiency targets. Failure to meet efficiency targets may require these plants to purchase CO2 emissions allowances. Our facilities were previously subject to the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System (EU ETS), which generally required us to hold or obtain emission allowances to offset GHG emissions from those aspects of our operations that were subject to regulation under this program. Beginning on January 1, 2021, our U.K. manufacturing plants became subject to the UK Emissions Trading Scheme (UK ETS). The UK ETS is similar to the EU ETS, although the U.K. ETS regulations established a lower emission cap than was established under the EU ETS. No agreement has been reached as to whether the UK ETS will establish a linkage with the EU ETS or other national emission trading systems.
In Canada, we are required to conduct an annual review of our operations with respect to compliance with Environment Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory and Ontario’s Mandatory Monitoring and Reporting Regulation and the GHG Reporting Regulation. In 2018, the federal Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act came into effect, pursuant to which Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) implemented the Output-Based Performance Standard (OBPS), which was intended to function as a backstop to provincial greenhouse gas emissions regulations. In June 2019, the ECCC finalized the emission limits for carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions from nitrogen fertilizer products. These emission limits are based on 95% of the average emissions intensity for the production of such products from all Canadian nitrogen fertilizer plants, reflecting that such products are deemed to be energy-intensive and trade-exposed and thus subject to a less stringent emissions reduction requirement. In the provinces and territories where the OBPS applies, a facility whose carbon emissions exceed the applicable limits is required to offset emissions by obtaining and retiring surplus emission credits, obtaining qualifying emissions offsets, or paying a fee. The fee under the OBPS for calendar year 2021 was CAD $40 per tonne of excess carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, and will be CAD $50 per tonne in 2022. Under the current program, the excess emission fee will increase by CAD $15 per year after 2022, reaching CAD $170 per tonne by 2030. Ontario, Saskatchewan and Alberta filed suit challenging whether the federal government had jurisdiction to impose a federal carbon price on the provinces and territories, but in March 2021, the Supreme Court of Canada upheld the constitutionality of the Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act.
In July 2019, the Ontario government enacted a new GHG regulation, called the Emissions-Performance Standards program (EPS), that sets CO2e emissions limits for nitrogen products based on a production weighted sectoral average. For facilities whose carbon emissions exceed the applicable limit, compliance options include the purchase of excess emission units, for a fee of CAD $40 per unit purchased in 2022 (which can be used to offset excess emissions in the 2021 calendar period) and CAD $50 per unit purchased in 2023 (to offset excess emissions in calendar year 2022). In September 2020, ECCC announced that the Ontario EPS met the federal government’s minimum stringency benchmark requirements, and in September 2021, the ECCC announced that the federal OBPS would no longer apply in Ontario beginning in January 2022. Accordingly, the Ontario EPS became applicable on January 1, 2022.
In 2019, the Alberta government passed the Technology Innovation and Emission Reduction Implementation Act (TIER), which went into effect on January 1, 2020. The TIER requires large emitting facilities (other than electricity producers, which are subject to a different standard) to comply with the least stringent of a “facility-specific” benchmark of 90% of historical GHG emissions intensity from a three-year baseline, which intensity limit will be reduced by 1% a year beginning in 2021, or a benchmark reflecting the emissions intensity of the top 10% of facilities for a given sector. The compliance options under the TIER initially established the price for payments into its carbon fund at CAD $30 per excess tonne of emissions. In December 2019, the federal government determined that the TIER met the stringency requirements of the OBPS with respect to its regulation of large industrial emitters for 2020. The levy for excess emissions of CO2e in Alberta for 2021 was CAD $40 per tonne and it is anticipated that the Alberta government will increase the levy for excess emissions of CO2e for calendar year 2022 to CAD $50 per tonne, to match the price of carbon established in the OBPS.
In the United States, GHG regulation is evolving at state, regional and federal levels, although some of the more significant developments to date, including efforts of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate GHG emissions from fossil fuel-fired power plants, do not directly impose obligations on our facilities. The EPA issued a mandatory GHG reporting rule that required all of our U.S. manufacturing facilities, which are considered large emitters of GHGs, to commence monitoring GHG emissions beginning on January 1, 2010 and reporting the previous year’s emissions annually starting in 2011. In addition, if we seek to modify or expand any of our major facilities and as a result, are required to

9

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

obtain a Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) construction permit applicable to such facilities, we could be subject to pollution control requirements applicable to GHGs in addition to requirements applicable to conventional air pollutants. Such requirements may result in increased costs or delays in completing such projects. Other than the states’ implementation of this permitting requirement, none of the states where our U.S. production facilities are located-Iowa, Louisiana, Mississippi and Oklahoma-has proposed control regulations limiting GHG emissions.
Increasing concern over the impacts of climate change is driving countries to establish ever more ambitious GHG reduction targets. Approximately 200 countries, including the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and the European Union (EU) have joined the Paris Agreement, an international agreement intended to provide a framework pursuant to which the parties to the agreement will attempt to hold the increase in global average temperatures to below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. Each signatory is required to develop its own national plan to attain this objective. In December 2020, the United Kingdom announced a target to reduce GHG emission 68% from 1990 levels by 2030. Canada has increased its emissions reduction target under the Paris Agreement to 40-45% below 2005 levels by 2030, up from 30%. In April 2021, the United States increased its goal to reduce GHG emissions to 50-52% below 2005 levels by 2030. Executive orders issued by the Biden administration, including in particular an executive order issued on January 27, 2021 focusing on climate change, evidence the administration’s intent to undertake numerous initiatives in an effort to reduce GHG emissions, including promoting renewable energy development, limiting or prohibiting new oil and gas leases on federal lands, and in general, making climate change considerations a critical component of federal policy.
Regulatory Permits and Approvals
We hold numerous environmental and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed regulatory material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing material permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. Any future expansion of our existing operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. More stringent environmental standards may impact our ability to obtain such permits.
Human Capital Resources
Our long-term success depends on our people. We are dedicated to creating a workplace where employees are proud to work and grow and where everyone feels empowered to do their best work. We do this by investing in extensive recruitment, training and professional development opportunities for our employees and fostering diversity and inclusion in our culture.
Employee Population. We employed approximately 3,000 employees at December 31, 2021, of which 67% were located in the United States, 19% in the United Kingdom, and 14% in Canada. As of December 31, 2021, 14% of our employees have worked for the Company more than 20 years, 17% of our employees have worked for the Company between 11 and 20 years, 29% of our employees have worked for the Company between 6 and 10 years, and 40% of our employees have worked at the Company for less than 6 years. Full-time employees represented approximately 99% of our workforce as of December 31, 2021 and approximately 15% were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We supplement our workforce with contractors with specialized skill sets during periods of peak activity, such as during turnarounds and maintenance events.
Culture, Inclusion and Diversity. Our core values and their underlying principles reflect our commitment to a diverse and inclusive culture, treating one another with respect. Across the Company, all employees completed training to learn to recognize and address the effects of unconscious bias by challenging assumptions; encouraging diversity of experience, opinion, and expression; and supporting a workplace culture that actively strives to be more inclusive. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 14% of our global workforce was female and 16% of the Company’s employees in frontline managerial roles were female. Minorities represented approximately 14% of the Company’s U.S. workforce and 13% of our U.S. employees in managerial roles. In order to continue to improve the inclusiveness and diversity of our company and culture, our comprehensive ESG goals announced in 2020 include goals to increase the representation of females and persons of color in senior leadership roles and to implement a program designed to increase the hiring and promotion of minority and female candidates. As of December 31, 2021, we had exceeded our representation goal with approximately 38% of senior leadership roles held by females and persons of color.
Workforce Health and Safety. Operating in a safe and responsible manner is a core value and an integral part of what sets the Company apart. We believe that focusing on leading indicators - such as the behavioral safety practices we have incorporated into our annual incentive plan - to drive and measure activities that prevent and control safety incidents, results in our industry-leading safety record. As of December 31, 2021, our employee 12-month rolling average recordable incident rate (RIR) was 0.32 incidents per 200,000 work hours, and our total recordable injury count was nine. For the year ended December

10

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

31, 2021, our days away, restricted or transferred (DART) incident rate was 0.21 injuries per 200,000 work hours, and our lost time incident rate was 0.11.
Response to COVID-19 Pandemic. During fiscal 2020 and 2021, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we instituted and have continued to enforce safety precautions to protect the health and well-being of all of our employees, including the manufacturing workforce who operate our nitrogen manufacturing complexes and distribution facilities. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview of CF Holdings—Market Conditions and Current Developments—COVID-19 Pandemic, for a further discussion of the pandemic.
Talent Development. A core aspect of our culture is our commitment to identifying and developing talent to help employees accelerate growth and achieve their career goals. We invest in extensive assessment, training and professional development opportunities for our employees through a robust set of formal and informal programs, including targeted job movements, key experiences, and training, with an emphasis on creating a culture of inclusion. Leadership is the quality that drives our values and sets us apart. To help foster leadership, we have developed a set of leadership competencies that provide a common language for how to demonstrate leadership at every level of the organization. We view training and development programs as being a key part of succession planning, allowing us to grow a stronger company today and in the future.

11

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.
        In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the factors discussed below before deciding to invest in any of our securities. These risks and uncertainties, individually or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. References to tons refer to short tons and references to tonnes refer to metric tons.
Market Risks
Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows tend to be negatively affected.
Historically, selling prices for our products, which are generally global commodities, have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand for nitrogen is affected by planted acreage, crop selection and fertilizer application rates, driven by population growth, gross domestic product growth, changes in dietary habits and non-food use of crops, such as production of ethanol and other biofuels among other things. Demand also includes industrial uses of nitrogen, for example chemical manufacturing and emissions reductants such as diesel exhaust fluid (DEF). Supply is affected primarily by available production capacity and operating rates, raw material costs and availability, energy prices, government policies and global trade.
Periods of strong demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to stimulate global investment in production capacity. In the past, fertilizer producers, including CF Holdings, have built new production facilities or expanded capacity of existing production assets, or announced plans to do so. The construction of new nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing capacity in the industry, plus improvements to increase output from the existing production assets, increase nitrogen supply availability and affect the balance of supply and demand and nitrogen selling prices. In certain years, global nitrogen fertilizer capacity has increased faster than global nitrogen fertilizer demand, creating a surplus of global nitrogen fertilizer capacity, which has led to lower nitrogen fertilizer selling prices. For example, in the two-year period ended December 31, 2017, additional production capacity came on line and, at the same time, the average selling price for our products declined 34%, from $314 per ton in 2015 to $207 per ton in 2017.
Additional production capacity is expected to come on line over the next 12 months outside of North America. We cannot predict the impact of this additional capacity on nitrogen fertilizer selling prices. Also, global or local economic, political and financial conditions or changes in such conditions, or other factors, may cause acceleration of announced and/or ongoing projects. Similarly, lower energy prices can spur increases in production in high cost regions, which would result in increased supply and pressure on selling prices. Additionally, if imports increase into an oversupplied region, lower prices in that region could result.
During periods of industry oversupply, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in possible reduced profit margins, write-downs in the value of our inventory and temporary or permanent curtailments of production. In 2016 and 2017, our financial performance, credit ratings and the trading price for our common stock were negatively impacted by the lower selling prices resulting from the global oversupply of nitrogen fertilizer. While in 2018 and 2019, we experienced increases in the average selling price for our products, in 2020, the average selling price for our products decreased 14% to $203 per ton compared to $235 per ton in 2019. In 2021, the average selling price for our products increased 74% to $353 per ton compared to 2020. Due to the cyclical nature of our industry, we cannot predict the timing of oversupply and undersupply conditions, the period of time that these conditions will persist or the degree to which oversupply conditions will impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Our nitrogen products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other producers.
We are subject to intense price competition from our competitors. Most fertilizers and related nitrogen products that we produce, such as industrial grade ammonium nitrate (AN) and DEF, are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and, to a lesser extent, customer service and product quality. As a consequence, conditions in the international market for nitrogen products significantly influence our operating results.
We compete with many producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some of our competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which make them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Furthermore, certain governments, in some cases as owners of some of our competitors, may be willing to accept lower prices and profitability on their products or subsidize production or consumption in order to support domestic employment or other political or social

12

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

goals. Our competitive position could suffer if we are not able to expand our own resources to a similar extent, either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions or joint ventures.
China, the world’s largest producer and consumer of nitrogen fertilizers, currently has capacity surplus and many high-cost plants. As a result, the domestic nitrogen industry in China is operating at less than full capacity. A number of factors could encourage China to increase product capacity utilization, including changes in Chinese government policy, devaluation of the Chinese renminbi, the relaxation of Chinese environmental standards or decreases in Chinese producers’ underlying costs such as the price of Chinese coal. Any resulting increase in export volume could adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
From time to time, certain of our competitors with significant nitrogen fertilizer export capacity have benefited from non-market pricing of natural gas, which has resulted in significant volumes of exports to the United States. For example, the 2016 revocations of U.S. antidumping measures on solid urea and fertilizer grade ammonium nitrate from Russia allowed for increased imports from that country into the United States in recent years. In addition, high volumes of urea ammonium nitrate solution (UAN) imports from Russia and Trinidad and Tobago have negatively affected U.S. producers’ UAN profitability.
We also face competition from other fertilizer producers in the Middle East, Europe, Latin America and Africa. These producers, depending on market conditions, fluctuating input prices, geographic location and freight economics, may take actions at times with respect to price or selling volumes that adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some of these producers also benefit from non-market or government-set rates for natural gas pricing.
In addition, the international market for nitrogen products is influenced by such factors as currency exchange rates, including the relative value of the U.S. dollar and its impact on the cost of importing nitrogen products into the United States, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets and the laws and policies of the markets in which we operate, including the imposition of new duties, tariffs or quotas, that affect foreign trade and investment. For example, the imposition of duties, tariffs or quotas in a region can directly impact product pricing in that region, which can lead to changes in global trade flows and impact the global supply and demand balance and pricing. Market participants customarily move product between regions of the world, or adjust trade flows, in response to these factors. North America, where we manufacture and sell most of our products, is one of the largest and most liquid nitrogen trading regions in the world. As a result, other manufacturers, traders and other market participants can move nitrogen products to North America when there is uncertainty associated with the supply and demand balance in other regions or when duties, tariffs or quotas impact prices or trade flows in other regions. Thus, duties, tariffs and quotas can lead to uncertainty in the global marketplace and impact the supply and demand balance in many regions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On October 9, 2019, the European Commission (the Commission) imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on imports to the European Union of UAN manufactured in Russia, the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and the United States. For imports of UAN manufactured in the United States, the fixed duty rate is €29.48 per tonne (or €26.74 per ton). The duties will remain in place for an initial five-year period unless the Commission suspends them before the five-year period has expired. After the initial five-year period, the Commission may renew the measures. The long-term impact of these duties on the international market for nitrogen products is uncertain.
A decline in agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the demand for our products.
Conditions in the United States, Europe, India, Brazil, China and other global agricultural areas significantly impact our operating results. Agricultural planted areas and production can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, crop disease and/or livestock disease, demand for agricultural products and governmental policies regarding production of or trade in agricultural products. These factors are outside of our control.
Governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies, commodity support programs and tariffs, environmental and greenhouse gas policies, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. Ethanol production in the United States contributes significantly to corn demand, representing approximately 35% of total U.S. corn demand, due in part to federal legislation mandating use of renewable fuels. An increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of corn grown in the United States and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. While the current Renewable Fuel Standard encourages continued high levels of corn-based ethanol production, various interested parties have called to eliminate or reduce the renewable fuel mandate, or to eliminate or reduce corn-based ethanol as part of the renewable fuel mandate. Other factors that drive the ethanol market include the prices of

13

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

ethanol, gasoline and corn. Lower gasoline prices and fewer aggregate miles, driven by increased automobile fuel efficiency, the continued expansion of electric vehicle use or the impact of decreased travel resulting from the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, may put pressure on ethanol prices that could result in reduced profitability and lower production for the ethanol industry. This could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand.
Developments in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation, the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, or nitrogen-efficient varieties, or developments in alternatives to traditional animal feed or alternative proteins, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for our products. Widespread adoption of emerging application technologies or alternative farming techniques could disrupt traditional application practices, affecting the volume or types of products used and timing of applications. In addition, from time to time various foreign government and U.S. state legislatures have considered limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the negative impact of these products on the environment. For example, the United Kingdom is currently consulting with stakeholders and reviewing proposals to limit emissions from solid urea fertilizers, including a potential ban on urea fertilizers. While CF Fertilisers UK Limited does not sell solid urea fertilizer in the United Kingdom, other jurisdictions may consider limits on fertilizer use, such as the European Union, which announced its Farm to Fork and Biodiversity Strategies, or Canada, which as part of its Healthy Environment, Healthy Economy plan announced plans in late 2020 to introduce a target of reducing emissions from fertilizers by 30% below 2020 levels and has begun informal consultations with industry and other stakeholders on this proposal. These or other more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions applicable to farmers, the end-users of our nitrogen fertilizers, could reduce the demand for our fertilizer products to the extent their use of our products increases farm-level emissions. Any reduction in the demand for chemical fertilizer products, including as a result of technological developments and/or limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Our business is dependent on natural gas, the prices of which are subject to volatility.
Nitrogen from the atmosphere and hydrogen from natural gas, coal and other carbon energy feedstocks, or from the electrolysis of water, are the fundamental building blocks of nitrogen products. Energy feedstock costs comprise a significant portion of the total production cost of nitrogen products and, relative to the industry’s marginal producers that set the global price of nitrogen, generally determine profitability for nitrogen producers. Our manufacturing processes utilize natural gas as the principal raw material used in our production of nitrogen products. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as a fuel to produce ammonia, granular urea, UAN, AN and other nitrogen products.
Most of our nitrogen manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada. As a result, North American natural gas comprises a significant portion of the total production cost of our products. In recent years, the cost of North American natural gas for the production of nitrogen fertilizers has been significantly lower than the energy costs of the industry’s marginal nitrogen producers. Changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas can lead to extended periods of higher natural gas prices. In addition, any increases in the volume of liquefied natural gas exported from the U.S. to other regions, particularly regions where nitrogen products are produced, could increase our natural gas costs and/or lower natural gas costs for our competitors. If high natural gas prices were to persist in North America and significantly erode our favorable energy cost differentials relative to the marginal nitrogen producers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The price of natural gas in North America has been volatile in recent years. During 2021, the daily closing price at the Henry Hub, the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing point in North America, reached a low of $2.36 per MMBtu on April 7, 2021 and a high of $23.61 per MMBtu on February 18, 2021. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, the daily closing price at the Henry Hub reached a low of $1.34 per MMBtu on September 22, 2020 and three consecutive days in October 2020 and a high of $23.61 per MMBtu on February 18, 2021.
We also have manufacturing facilities located in the United Kingdom. These facilities are subject to fluctuations associated with the price of natural gas in Europe, which has also been volatile in recent years and reached unprecedented high levels in 2021. The major natural gas trading point for the United Kingdom is the National Balancing Point (NBP). During 2021, the daily closing price at NBP reached a low of $5.58 per MMBtu on February 23, 2021 and a high of $60.10 per MMBtu on December 22, 2021. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, the daily closing price at NBP reached a low of $1.04 per MMBtu on May 22, 2020 and a high of $60.10 per MMBtu on December 22, 2021. The high price for natural gas in the United Kingdom has had an effect on our local operations, resulting in the idling of certain of our United Kingdom plants in 2021. Since the third quarter of 2021, the price for natural gas in the United Kingdom has remained high. The average daily market price of natural gas at NBP for January 2022 was $25.91 per MMBtu.

14

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The price of natural gas in North America and worldwide has been volatile in recent years and has declined on average due in part to the development of significant natural gas reserves, including shale gas, and the rapid improvement in shale gas extraction techniques, such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. Future production of natural gas from shale formations could be reduced by regulatory changes that restrict drilling or hydraulic fracturing or increase its cost or by reduction in oil exploration and development prompted by lower oil prices resulting in production of less associated gas.
Certain of our operating facilities are located near natural gas hubs that have experienced increased natural gas development and have favorable basis differences as compared to other North American hubs. Favorable basis differences in certain regions may dissipate over time due to increases in natural gas pipeline or storage capacity in those regions. Additionally, basis differentials may become materially unfavorable due to a lack of inbound gas pipeline or storage capacity in other regions during periods of unusually high demand. Increased demand for natural gas, particularly in the Gulf Coast Region, due to increased industrial demand and increased natural gas exports, could result in increased natural gas prices. If reduced production, increased demand or changes in basis were to occur, or if other developments adversely impact the supply and demand balance for natural gas in North America or elsewhere, natural gas prices could rise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products, increase the cost of natural gas or materially disrupt our operations. Adverse weather conditions could become more frequent and/or more severe as a result of climate change.
Weather conditions that delay or disrupt field work during the planting, growing, harvesting or application periods may cause agricultural customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell or may impede farmers from applying our fertilizers until the following application period, resulting in lower seasonal demand for our products.
Adverse weather conditions during or following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which could lower the income of growers and impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. Adverse weather conditions could also impact transportation of fertilizer, which could disrupt our ability to deliver our products to customers on a timely basis. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in fertilizer applications, planting schedules and purchasing patterns. Over the longer-term, changes in weather patterns may shift the periods of demand for products and even the regions to which our products are distributed, which could require us to evolve our distribution system.
In addition, we use the North American waterway system extensively to ship products from some of our manufacturing facilities to our distribution facilities and our customers. We also export nitrogen fertilizer products via seagoing vessels from deep-water docking facilities at certain of our manufacturing sites. Therefore, persistent significant changes in river or ocean water levels (either up or down, such as a result of flooding, drought or climate change, for example), may require changes to our operating and distribution activities and/or significant capital improvements to our facilities.
Weather conditions or, in certain cases, weather forecasts, also can disrupt our operations and can affect the price of natural gas, the principal raw material used to make our nitrogen products. Colder and/or longer than normal winters and warmer than normal summers increase the demand for natural gas for power generation and for residential and industrial use, which can increase the cost and/or decrease the availability of natural gas. In addition, adverse weather events not only can cause loss of power at our facilities or damage to or delays in logistics capabilities disrupting our operations, but also can impact the supply of natural gas and utilities and cause prices to rise.
All of the adverse weather conditions described above, including those impacting our customers and our operations, such as the physical risk from storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, or floods could become more frequent and/or more severe as a result of climate change. Our Donaldsonville complex is located in an area of the United States that experiences a relatively high level of hurricane or high wind activity and several of our complexes are located in areas that experience severe weather. In the last several years, there has been an increase in the frequency and severity of adverse weather conditions, including in the geographic areas where we have operations. Any significant adverse weather event or combination of adverse weather events could decrease demand for our fertilizer products, increase the cost of natural gas or materially disrupt our operations — any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Our operating results fluctuate due to seasonality. Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in our having excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value.
The fertilizer business is seasonal. The degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. The strongest demand for our products in North America occurs

15

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. In contrast, we and other fertilizer producers generally manufacture and distribute products throughout the year. As a result, we and/or our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the short application seasons and the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand generally results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements to build inventory being the highest just prior to the start of the spring planting season.
If seasonal demand is less than we expect, we may be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations would be negatively affected by any related increased storage costs) or liquidated (in which case the selling price could be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with excess inventory and product shortages are exacerbated by the volatility of nitrogen fertilizer prices, the constraints of our storage capacity, and the relatively brief periods during which farmers can apply nitrogen fertilizers. If prices for our products rapidly decrease, we may be subject to inventory write-downs, adversely affecting our operating results.
A change in the volume of products that our customers purchase on a forward basis, or the percentage of our sales volume that is sold to our customers on a forward basis, could increase our exposure to fluctuations in our profit margins and working capital and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We offer our customers the opportunity to purchase products from us on a forward basis at prices and delivery dates we propose. Under our forward sales programs, customers generally make an initial cash down payment at the time of order and pay the remaining portion of the contract sales value in advance of the shipment date. Forward sales improve our liquidity by reducing our working capital needs due to the cash payments received from customers in advance of shipment of the product and allow us to improve our production scheduling and planning and the utilization of our manufacturing and distribution assets.
Any cash payments received in advance from customers in connection with forward sales are reflected on our consolidated balance sheets as a current liability until the related orders are shipped, which can take up to several months.
We believe the ability to purchase products on a forward basis is most appealing to our customers during periods of generally increasing prices for nitrogen fertilizers. Our customers may be less willing or even unwilling to purchase products on a forward basis during periods of generally decreasing or stable prices or during periods of relatively high fertilizer prices due to the expectation of lower prices in the future or limited capital resources. Fixing the selling prices of our products, often months in advance of their ultimate delivery to customers, typically causes our reported selling prices and margins to differ from spot market prices and margins available at the time of shipment. In periods of rising fertilizer prices, selling our nitrogen fertilizers on a forward basis may result in lower profit margins than if we had not sold fertilizer on a forward basis.
Operational Risks
Our operations are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties, and any delay or interruption in the delivery of raw materials may adversely affect our business.
We use natural gas and other raw materials in the manufacture of our nitrogen products. We purchase the natural gas and other raw materials from third party suppliers. Our natural gas is transported by pipeline to our facilities by third party transportation providers or through the use of facilities owned by third parties. Delays or interruptions in the delivery of natural gas or other raw materials may be caused by, among other things, severe weather or natural disasters, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties or shortages, insolvency of our suppliers or their inability to meet existing contractual arrangements, deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents, or mechanical failures. In addition, the transport of natural gas by pipeline is subject to additional risks, including delays or interruptions caused by capacity constraints, leaks or ruptures. Any delay or interruption in the delivery of natural gas or other raw materials, even for a limited period, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Our transportation and distribution activities rely on third party providers and are subject to environmental, safety and regulatory oversight. This exposes us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations and exposes us to additional liability.
We rely on natural gas pipelines to transport raw materials to our manufacturing facilities. In addition, we rely on railroad, barge, truck, vessel and pipeline companies to coordinate and deliver finished products to our distribution system and to ship finished products to our customers. We also lease rail cars in order to ship raw materials and finished products. These transportation operations, equipment and services are subject to various hazards, including adverse operating conditions on the

16

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

inland waterway system, extreme weather conditions, system failures, work stoppages, shutdowns, delays, accidents such as spills and derailments, vessel groundings and other accidents and operating hazards. Additionally, due to the aging infrastructure of certain rail lines, bridges, roadways, pipelines, river locks, and equipment that our third party service providers utilize, we may experience delays in both the receipt of raw materials or the shipment of finished product while repairs, maintenance or replacement activities are conducted. Also, certain third party service providers, such as railroads, have experienced periodic service delays or shutdowns due to capacity constraints in their systems, operational and maintenance difficulties, blockades, weather or safety-related embargoes and delays, and other events, which could impact the shipping of our products and cause disruption in our supply chain.
These transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances, terrorism or the potential use of fertilizers as explosives, governmental entities could implement new or more stringent regulatory requirements affecting the transportation of raw materials or finished products.
If shipping of our products is delayed or we are unable to obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies’ failure to operate properly, or if new and more stringent regulatory requirements were implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there were significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our revenues and cost of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, increases in our transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
In the United States and Canada, the railroad industry continues various efforts to limit the railroads’ potential liability stemming from the transportation of Toxic Inhalation Hazard materials, such as the anhydrous ammonia we transport to and from our manufacturing and distribution facilities. For example, various railroads shift liability to shippers by contract, purport to shift liability to shippers by tariff, or otherwise seek to require shippers to indemnify and defend the railroads from and against liabilities (including in negligence, strict liability, or statutory liability) that may arise from certain acts or omissions of the railroads, third parties who may have insufficient resources, or the Company, unknown causes or acts of god. These initiatives could materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and potentially our ability to transport anhydrous ammonia and increase our liability for releases of our anhydrous ammonia while in the care, custody and control of the railroads, third parties or us, for which our insurance may be insufficient or unavailable. New or more stringent regulatory requirements also could be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. Restrictions on service, increases in transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, and any railroad industry initiatives that may impact our ability to transport our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We are reliant on a limited number of key facilities.
Our nitrogen manufacturing facilities are located at nine separate nitrogen complexes, the largest of which is the Donaldsonville complex, which represented approximately 40% of our ammonia production capacity as of December 31, 2021. The suspension of operations at any of these complexes could adversely affect our ability to produce our products and fulfill our commitments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Operational disruptions could occur for many reasons, including natural disasters, weather, unplanned maintenance and other manufacturing problems, disease, strikes or other labor unrest or transportation interruptions. For example, our Donaldsonville complex is located in an area of the United States that experiences severe weather, including a relatively high level of hurricane or high wind activity, and several of our other complexes are also located in areas that experience severe weather. Such storms and severe weather events, depending on their severity and location, have the potential not only to damage our facilities and disrupt our operations, but also to affect adversely the shipping and distribution of our products. Moreover, our facilities may be subject to failure of equipment that may be difficult to replace or have long delivery lead times, due in part to a limited number of suppliers, and could result in operational disruptions.

17

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any technology disruption or cybersecurity incident could negatively affect our operations.
We rely on internal and third-party information technology and computer control systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications, the management of our accounting, financial and supply chain functions and plant operations. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, implement and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, inaccurate financial reporting, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to our confidential business information due to a security breach. In addition, our information technology systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. Security breaches of our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, business partners, customers or suppliers, and may subject us to legal liability.
As with most large systems, our information technology systems (and the systems of our suppliers) have in the past been, and in the future likely will be, subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber attacks, and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase. To date, we are not aware of any significant impact on our operations or financial results from such attempts; however, unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations, result in the loss of assets, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Any of the attacks, breaches or other disruptions or damage described above could: interrupt our operations at one or more sites; delay production and shipments; result in the theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets; damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation; result in legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy or other laws, or increased costs for security and remediation; or raise concerns regarding our accounting for transactions. Each of these consequences could adversely affect our business, reputation and our financial statements.
Our business involves the use, storage, and transmission of information about our employees, customers, and suppliers. The protection of such information, as well as our proprietary information, is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our employees, customers or suppliers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception, could expose us or our employees, customers, suppliers or other individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, which could ultimately result in litigation and potential legal and financial liability. These events could also damage our reputation or otherwise harm our business.
Acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism could negatively affect our business.
Like other companies with major industrial facilities, we may be targets of terrorist activities. Many of our plants and facilities store significant quantities of ammonia and other materials that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain nitrogen products as explosives, we are subject to various security laws and regulations. In the United States, these security laws include the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 and the Chemical Facilities Anti-Terrorism Standards regulation. In addition, President Obama issued in 2013 Executive Order 13650 Improving Chemical Facility Safety and Security to improve chemical facility safety in coordination with owners and operators. Governmental entities could implement new or impose more stringent regulations affecting the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers and other nitrogen products. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and reduced profit margins. We manufacture and sell certain nitrogen products that can be used as explosives. It is possible that governmental entities in the United States or elsewhere could impose additional limitations on the use, sale or distribution of nitrogen products, thereby limiting our ability to manufacture or sell those products, or that illicit use of our products could result in liability for us.

18

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

We are subject to risks associated with international operations.
Our international business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; currency fluctuations; tax rates that may exceed those in the United States; earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; and the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions.
Changes in governmental trade policies can lead to the imposition of new taxes, levies, duties, tariffs or quotas affecting agricultural commodities, fertilizer or industrial products. These can alter costs, trade flows, access to supplies or demand, and regional balances for our products.
Our principal reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our business operations and investments outside the United States increase our risk related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The main currencies to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, are the Canadian dollar, the British pound and the euro. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change. We may selectively reduce some foreign currency exchange rate risk by, among other things, requiring contracted purchases of our products to be settled in, or indexed to, the U.S. dollar or a currency freely convertible into U.S. dollars, or hedging through foreign currency derivatives. These efforts, however, may not be effective and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations and economic sanctions programs in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010, the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, and economic sanctions programs administered by the United Nations, the European Union and the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and regulations set forth under the Comprehensive Iran Accountability Divestment Act. As a result of doing business internationally, we are exposed to a risk of violating anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries where we, our partners or agents operate. Violations of anti-corruption and sanctions laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts) and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. The violation of applicable laws by our employees, consultants, agents or partners could subject us to penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time. Changes in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth.
Financial Risks
Our operations and the production and handling of our products involve significant risks and hazards. We are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Therefore, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses.
Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacture, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical products, including ammonia, which is highly toxic and can be corrosive, and ammonium nitrate, which is explosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled plant downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations for an extended period of time and/or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities.
In April 2013, there was a fire and explosion at the West Fertilizer Co. fertilizer storage and distribution facility in West, Texas. According to published reports, 15 people were killed and approximately 200 people were injured in the incident, and the fire and explosion damaged or destroyed a number of homes and buildings around the facility. Various subsidiaries of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (the CF Entities) were named as defendants along with other companies in lawsuits alleging various theories of negligence, strict liability, and breach of warranty under Texas law. Although we did not own or operate the facility or directly sell our products to West Fertilizer Co., products that the CF Entities manufactured and sold to others were delivered to the facility and may have been stored at the West facility at the time of the incident. Nearly all of the cases, including all wrongful death and personal injury claims, have been resolved pursuant to confidential settlements that have been or we expect will be fully funded by insurance. The remaining subrogation and statutory indemnification claims total approximately

19

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

$37 million, before prejudgment interest. The increased focus on the risks associated with fertilizers as a result of the incident could impact the regulatory environment and requirements applicable to fertilizer manufacturing and storage facilities.
We maintain property, business interruption, casualty and liability insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to various self-insured retentions, deductibles and limits under these insurance policies. The policies also contain exclusions and conditions that could have a material adverse impact on our ability to receive indemnification thereunder. Our policies are generally renewed annually. As a result of market conditions, our premiums, self-insured retentions and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, significantly increased costs could lead us to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to buy and maintain insurance with adequate limits and reasonable pricing terms and conditions.
Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our cash flow, prevent us from fulfilling our obligations and impair our ability to pursue or achieve other business objectives.
As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $3.5 billion of total funded indebtedness, consisting primarily of unsecured senior notes with varying maturity dates between 2023 and 2044, or approximately 36% of our total capitalization (total debt plus total stockholders’ equity), and an additional $750 million of unsecured senior borrowing availability (reflecting no outstanding borrowings and no outstanding letters of credit) for general corporate purposes under our revolving credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Agreement). Our substantial debt service obligations will have an impact on our earnings and cash flow for so long as the indebtedness is outstanding.
Our indebtedness could, as a result of our debt service obligations or through the operation of the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under the agreements and instruments governing that indebtedness and otherwise, have important consequences. For example, it could:
•make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause us not to have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments;
•cause us to be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions;
•cause us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service, reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and other business activities;
•cause us to be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;
•expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement, could be at variable rates of interest;
•make us more leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage;
•restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or utilize excess cash to repurchase shares of our common stock;
•limit our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; and
•result in our credit ratings being downgraded, which could increase the cost of further borrowings.
We expect to consider options to refinance our outstanding indebtedness from time to time. Our ability to obtain any financing, whether through the issuance of new debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions within our industry and generally, credit ratings and numerous other factors, including factors beyond our control. Consequently, in the event that we need to access the credit markets, including to refinance our debt, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable timeframe, if at all. An inability to obtain financing with acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The terms of our existing indebtedness allow us to incur significant additional debt. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks that we face as a result of our leverage could intensify. If our financial condition or operating results deteriorate, our relations with our creditors, including the holders of our outstanding debt securities, the lenders under the Revolving Credit Agreement and our suppliers, may be materially and adversely affected.

20

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

A failure to satisfy the financial maintenance covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement or a breach of the covenants under any of the agreements governing our indebtedness could limit the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement or result in an event of default under such agreements.
Our ability to comply with the covenants in the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness, including the consolidated interest coverage ratio and consolidated net leverage ratio maintenance covenants contained in the Revolving Credit Agreement, will depend upon our future performance and various other factors, such as market prices for our nitrogen products, natural gas prices and other business, competitive and regulatory factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain compliance with all of these covenants. In that event, we may not be able to access the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement and we would need to seek an amendment to our debt agreements or would need to refinance our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we can obtain future amendments or waivers of our debt agreements and instruments, or refinance our debt, and, even if we were able to do so, such relief might only last for a limited period, potentially necessitating additional amendments, waivers or refinancings. Any noncompliance by us with the covenants under our debt agreements and instruments could result in an event of default under those debt agreements and instruments. An event of default under an agreement or instrument governing any of our indebtedness may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If our lenders or holders of our debt securities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may be forced to liquidate certain assets to repay all or part of our indebtedness, which could materially and adversely impair our business operations. An event of default under the Revolving Credit Agreement would permit the lenders thereunder to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the Revolving Credit Agreement. In the event our creditors accelerate the repayment of our indebtedness, we cannot assure that we would have sufficient assets to make such repayment.
Potential future downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital, cause vendors to change their credit terms for doing business with us, and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.

As of February 14, 2022, our corporate credit rating by S&P Global Ratings is BBB- with a stable outlook; our corporate credit rating by Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. is Ba1 with a positive outlook; and our corporate credit rating with Fitch Ratings, Inc. is BBB- with a stable outlook. These ratings and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt, as well as the payment terms that vendors are willing to provide us. Negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt, and could cause vendors to shorten our payment terms, require us to pay in advance for materials or services, or provide letters of credit, security, or other credit enhancements in order to do business with us.
Tax matters, including changes in tax laws or rates, adverse determinations by taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
We are subject to taxes in (i) the United States, where most of our operations are located, and (ii) several foreign jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are organized or conduct business. Tax laws or rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rate could also be affected by changes in our mix of earnings from jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates and tax systems, changes in valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.
We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct business. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. There can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
We have used the cash we generate outside the United States primarily to fund development of our business in non-U.S. jurisdictions. If the funds generated by our U.S. business are not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the United States, we may need to repatriate a portion of our future international earnings to the United States. Under the tax laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, those international earnings could be subject to withholding taxes when repatriated; therefore, the repatriation of those earnings could result in an increase in our worldwide effective tax rate and an increase in our use of cash to pay these taxes.
We also need to comply with other new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. The enactment of, or increases in, carbon taxes, tariffs or value added taxes, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

21

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The United States and other countries in which we operate are in the process of implementing the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project (BEPS), which is intended to improve tax disclosure and transparency and eliminate structures and activities that could be perceived by a particular country as resulting in tax avoidance. The OECD has partially developed and continues with development of a framework to assist member countries in adopting BEPS related legislation. Each country is permitted to introduce its own legislation to implement BEPS legislation. As a number of our business operations do business across country lines, we are subject to BEPS. The implementation of BEPS could result in tax changes and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and cash flows. In some cases, BEPS legislation could result in double taxation on a portion of our profits without an appropriate mechanism to recover the incremental tax amount in another jurisdiction.
Our business is subject to risks involving derivatives and the risk that our hedging activities might not prevent losses.
We may utilize natural gas derivatives to hedge our financial exposure to the price volatility of natural gas, the principal raw material used in the production of nitrogen-based products. We have used natural gas futures, swaps and option contracts traded in over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We have also used fixed-price, physical purchase and sales contracts to hedge our exposure to natural gas price volatility. In order to manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we may from time to time use foreign currency derivatives (primarily forward exchange contracts).
Our use of derivatives can result in volatility in reported earnings due to the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments that occur from changes in the value of the derivatives that do not qualify for, or to which we do not apply, hedge accounting. To the extent that our derivative positions lose value, we may be required to post collateral with our counterparties, adversely affecting our liquidity.
Hedging arrangements are imperfect and unhedged risks will always exist. In addition, our hedging activities may themselves give rise to various risks that could adversely affect us. For example, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk when our derivatives are in a net asset position. The counterparties to our derivatives are multi-national commercial banks, major financial institutions or large energy companies.
Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by a counterparty default on settlement of one or more of our derivative financial instruments or by the triggering of any cross default provisions or credit support requirements against us. Additionally, the International Swaps and Derivative Association master netting arrangements for most of our derivative instruments contain credit-risk-related contingent features, such as cross default provisions and credit support requirements. In the event of certain defaults or a credit ratings downgrade, our counterparty may request early termination and net settlement of certain derivative trades or may require us to collateralize derivatives in a net liability position.
At other times we may not utilize derivatives or derivative strategies to hedge certain risks or to reduce the financial exposure of price volatility. As a result, we may not prevent certain material adverse impacts that could have been mitigated through the use of derivative strategies.
Environmental and Regulatory Risks
We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial expenditures.
We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and other locations, including laws and regulations relating to the generation and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; the introduction of new chemicals or substances into a market; the cleanup of hazardous substance releases; the discharge of regulated substances to air or water; and the demolition and cleanup of existing plant sites upon permanent closure. In the United States, these laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international laws. In November 2021, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act reinstated and doubled the Superfund tax on chemicals, including ammonia and nitric acid. These taxes will be in place from July 1, 2022 through December 31, 2031 and apply to all domestic and imported products not used as fertilizer.
As a producer of nitrogen fertilizer products working with hazardous substances, our business faces risks of spills, discharges or other releases of those substances into the environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental cleanup laws at our current facilities or facilities previously owned by us or other acquired businesses, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal

22

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment.
Violations of environmental, health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental, health and safety laws change regularly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may be subject to more stringent enforcement of existing or new environmental, health and safety laws in the future. Additionally, future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or reinterpretation of current laws and regulations may require us to make substantial expenditures. Our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
From time to time, our production, distribution or storage of anhydrous ammonia and other hazardous or regulated substances has resulted in accidental releases that have temporarily disrupted our operations and/or resulted in liability for administrative penalties and/or claims for personal injury. To date, our costs to resolve these liabilities have not been material. However, we could incur significant costs if our liability coverage is not sufficient to pay for all or a large part of any judgments against us, or if our insurance carrier refuses coverage for these losses.
We hold numerous environmental and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. Expansion or modification of our operations is predicated upon securing necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed regulatory material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, or a determination that we have violated a law or permit as a result of a governmental inspection of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at our facilities and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Future regulatory or legislative restrictions on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the jurisdictions in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Our production facilities emit GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide, and natural gas, a fossil fuel, is a primary raw material used in our nitrogen production process. Because conventional ammonia production generates CO2 as an unavoidable chemical byproduct, ammonia production globally is considered an emissions- and energy-intensive industry. We are subject to GHG regulations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. In the United States, our existing facilities, which are considered large emitters of GHGs, currently are only subject to GHG emissions reporting obligations. New facilities that we build, or existing facilities that we modify in the future, could also be subject to GHG emissions standards included in their air permits.
Beginning on January 1, 2021, our U.K. manufacturing plants became subject to the UK Emissions Trading Scheme (UK ETS), which generally requires us to hold or obtain emissions allowances to offset GHG emissions from those aspects of our operations that are subject to regulation under this program. Given the recent development of the UK ETS, there is substantial uncertainty as to the liquidity in the market for, and the stability of the price of, emission allowances that will be necessary for compliance with the regulations. Our manufacturing plants in the Alberta and Ontario provinces of Canada are subject to provincial or federal laws that impose a price on excess GHG emissions. Each of these laws establishes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions standards applicable to our facilities in terms of emissions per unit of production, with the provincial laws and the federal law using different formulas for establishing these intensity limits and changes in these limits over time. If CO2e emissions exceed the applicable limits, the excess emissions must be offset, either through obtaining qualifying emission credits or offsets or by making a payment for each ton of excess emissions.
Increasing concern over the impacts of climate change is driving countries to establish ever more ambitious GHG reduction targets. Approximately 200 countries, including the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and the members of the European Union (EU), have joined the Paris Agreement, an international agreement intended to provide a framework pursuant to which the parties to the agreement will attempt to hold the increase in global average temperatures to below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5ºC above pre-industrial levels. Each signatory is required to develop its own national plan to attain this objective. In December 2020, the United Kingdom announced a target to reduce GHG emissions 68% from 1990 levels by 2030. Canada has increased its emissions reduction target under the Paris Agreement to 40-45% (up from 30%) below 2005 levels by 2030. In April 2021, the United States increased its goal to reduce emissions to 50-52% below 2005 levels by 2030. The Biden administration has also issued several executive orders focused on climate change to promote more active management of these issues across the executive branch, including by the EPA and the Departments of Agriculture, Interior, Transportation and Treasury.

23

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

In July 2021, the EU proposed a new carbon border adjustment mechanism that would require importers of certain products, including nitrogen fertilizers, to pay an import tax approximately equal to the costs incurred by EU producers of the products starting in 2026. Other governments are also considering border adjustment mechanisms for carbon intensive products. The imposition of any carbon border adjustment taxes may distort investment and trade flows, which could adversely impact our business.
More stringent GHG regulations, if they are enacted, are likely to have a significant impact on us, because our production facilities emit GHGs such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide and because natural gas, a fossil fuel, is a primary raw material used in our nitrogen production process. Regulation of GHGs may require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency, limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for or limit the availability of energy, raw materials or transportation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes could also be made to tax policies related to decarbonization and clean energy that could impact our business and investment decisions. In addition, to the extent that GHG restrictions are not imposed in countries where our competitors operate or are less stringent than regulations that may be imposed in the United States, Canada or the United Kingdom, our competitors may have cost or other competitive advantages over us.
Strategic Risks
The market for green and blue (low-carbon) ammonia may be slow to develop, may not develop to the size expected or may not develop at all. Moreover, we may not be successful in the development and implementation of our green and blue ammonia projects in a timely or economic manner, or at all, due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.
The market for green and blue (low-carbon) ammonia is developing and evolving, may not develop to the size or at the rate we expect, and is dependent in part on the developing market for green and blue (low-carbon) hydrogen, for which ammonia can serve as a transport and storage mechanism. These markets are heavily influenced by demand for clean energy, technology evolution and federal, state and local government laws, regulations and policies concerning carbon emissions, clean energy, and corporate accountability in the United States and abroad.
We believe the demand for green and blue ammonia could take several years to materialize and then ten or more years to fully develop and mature, and we cannot be certain that this market or the market for green and blue hydrogen will grow to the size or at the rate we expect. Hydrogen currently accounts for less than 1% of the world’s energy needs.
The recognition and acceptance of green and blue ammonia as a transport and storage mechanism for green and blue hydrogen, the use of green and blue ammonia as a fuel in its own right, the use of green and blue ammonia as a fertilizer, and the development and growth of end market demand and applications for green and blue hydrogen and green and blue ammonia are uncertain and dependent on a number of factors outside of our control. These factors include, among others, the extent to which and rate at which cost competitive global renewable energy capacity increases, the pricing of traditional and alternative sources of energy, the realization of technological improvements required to increase the efficiency and lower the costs of production of green and blue ammonia, the regulatory environment, the rate and extent of infrastructure investment and development, which may be affected by the relevant parties’ ability to obtain permits for these investments, the availability of tax benefits and other incentives and our ability to provide green and blue ammonia offerings cost-effectively. In addition, further development of alternative decarbonization technologies may result in viable alternatives to the use of blue ammonia for many potential decarbonization applications, resulting in lower than expected market demand growth relative to our current expectations. If a sustainable market for green or blue ammonia or hydrogen fails to develop, develops more slowly than we anticipate, or develops in a way that is not viable to serve with our assets and capabilities, we may decide not to implement, or may not be successful in implementing, one or more elements of our multi-year strategic plan.
Our clean energy strategy also depends on the realization of certain technical improvements required to increase the efficiency and lower the costs of production of green and blue ammonia. Over time, as we seek to convert additional existing facilities to green and blue production and further expand our green and blue ammonia production capacity, we may face operational difficulties and execution risks related to the design, development and construction. If our assumptions about the engineering and processing characteristics necessary to successfully build the facility capacity that we are contemplating and to scale up to larger production quantities prove to be incorrect, we may be unable to produce substantial quantities of green or blue ammonia, and the cost to construct or convert such green and blue ammonia facilities, or the production costs associated with the operation of such facilities, may be higher than we project. The production of blue ammonia depends to a large extent upon development by third parties of carbon capture and storage wells, which are not well-established technologies and are subject to a permitting process and operational risks, which may result in delays, impact viability in some or all situations, or create long-term liabilities.

24

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

We may not be successful in the expansion of our business.
We routinely consider possible expansions of our business, both within the United States and elsewhere. Major investments in our business, including acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, business combination transactions or other major investments, such as our green and blue ammonia projects, require significant managerial resources, the diversion of which from our other activities or opportunities may negatively affect the existing operations of our business. We may be unable to identify or successfully compete for certain acquisition targets, which may hinder or prevent us from acquiring a target or completing other transactions. The risks of any expansion of our business through investments, acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or business combination transactions may increase due to the significant capital and other resources that we may have to commit to any such expansion, which may not be recoverable if the expansion initiative to which they were devoted is ultimately not implemented. In addition, these efforts may require capital resources that could otherwise be used for the improvement and expansion of our existing business. As a result of these and other factors, including general economic risk, we may not be able to realize our projected returns from any future acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, business combination transactions or other major investments. Among the risks associated with the pursuit and consummation of acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other major investments or business combinations are those involving:
•difficulties in integrating the parties’ operations, systems, technologies, products, cultures, and personnel;
•incurrence of significant transaction-related expenses;
•potential integration or restructuring costs;
•potential impairment charges related to the goodwill, intangible assets or other assets to which any such transaction relates, in the event that the economic benefits of such transaction prove to be less than anticipated;
•other unanticipated costs associated with such transactions;
•our ability to achieve operating and financial efficiencies, synergies and cost savings;
•our ability to obtain the desired financial or strategic benefits from any such transaction;
•the parties’ ability to retain key business relationships, including relationships with employees, customers, partners and suppliers;
•potential loss of key personnel;
•entry into markets or involvement with products with which we have limited current or prior experience or in which competitors may have stronger positions;
•assumption of contingent liabilities, including litigation;
•exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including litigation;
•differences in the parties’ internal control environments, which may require significant time and resources to resolve in conformity with applicable legal and accounting standards;
•increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;
•the tax effects of any such transaction; and
•the potential for costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits.
Moreover, legal proceedings or other risks from acquisitions and other business combinations may arise years after a transaction has been completed and may involve matters unrelated to the business acquired. For example, we were recently named along with other parties in certain product liability actions relating to a product containing the herbicide paraquat, which was allegedly sold, manufactured, distributed and/or marketed by Terra Industries Inc. (Terra) before it exited such lines of business, which exit occurred more than ten years before CF Holdings acquired Terra in April 2010.
In addition, major capital projects may be dependent on the availability and performance of engineering firms, construction firms, equipment and material suppliers, transportation providers and other vendors necessary to design and implement those projects on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. Major investments such as capital improvements at our facilities are subject to a number of risks, any of which could prevent us from completing capital projects in a timely or economic manner or at all, including, without limitation, cost overruns, non-performance of third parties, the inability to obtain necessary permits or other permitting matters, adverse weather, defects in materials and workmanship, labor and raw material shortages, transportation constraints, engineering and construction change orders, errors in design, construction or start-up, and other unforeseen difficulties.
International acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, investments or business combinations and other international expansions of our business involve additional risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to:
•the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries;
•challenges caused by distance and by language and cultural differences;
•difficulties and costs of complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;
•unexpected changes in regulatory environments;

25

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

•political and economic instability, including the possibility for civil unrest;
•nationalization of properties by foreign governments;
•tax rates that may exceed those in the United States, and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements;
•the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; and
•the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations.
If we finance acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, business combination transactions or other major investments by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted or we could face constraints under the terms of, and as a result of the repayment and debt-service obligations under, the additional indebtedness. A business combination transaction between us and another company could result in our stockholders receiving cash or shares of another entity on terms that such stockholders may not consider desirable. Moreover, the regulatory approvals associated with a business combination may result in divestitures or other changes to our business, the effects of which are difficult to predict.
We are subject to risk associated with our strategic venture with CHS Inc. (CHS).
We may not realize the full benefits from our strategic venture with CHS that are expected. The realization of the expected benefits of the CHS strategic venture depends on our ability to operate and manage the strategic venture successfully, and on the market prices of the nitrogen fertilizer products that are the subject of our supply agreement with CHS over the life of the agreement, among other factors. Additionally, any challenges related to the CHS strategic venture could harm our relationships with CHS or our other customers.
COVID-19 Pandemic Risk
Our business and operations may be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The rapid spread of COVID-19 has resulted in governmental authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and shutdowns. If significant portions of our workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, facility closures or other restrictions, we may be unable to meet customer demand or perform fully under our contracts. The COVID-19 pandemic could also affect our customers, suppliers and third party service providers, including transportation providers, and result in restrictions on or disruptions of transportation, port closures or increased border controls or closures, or other impacts on domestic and global supply chains or distribution channels, which could increase our costs and/or limit our ability to meet customer demand.
In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic could reduce, and has in the past reduced, the demand for energy, including crude oil, as well as natural gas and coal, which are nitrogen feedstocks. Reduced demand for nitrogen feedstocks could reduce the cost of nitrogen production outside of North America, which could increase global nitrogen supply and reduce the market prices of our products. Lower demand for crude oil could also reduce the supply and therefore increase the cost of natural gas, which is the principal raw material used in our production of nitrogen products. The pandemic has also disrupted traditional food supply chains, which may have a material impact on livestock and food demand, including the demand for corn. Each of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We are unable to predict the ultimate impact the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The extent to which our operations may be impacted by COVID-19 will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including the further spread of the virus, the rise of new variants of COVID-19, the duration of the pandemic and the type and duration of actions that may be taken by various governmental authorities in response to these developments. In 2020, the pandemic significantly increased global market uncertainty and caused an economic slowdown, which resulted in a global recession. Persistent weakness in economic activity caused by a deterioration of global market and economic conditions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

26

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
From time to time, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as in other written reports and oral statements, we make forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may also relate to our prospects, future developments and business strategies. We have used the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “will” or “would” and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this document. These forward-looking statements are made based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions concerning future events affecting us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, our actual results may differ materially from what is expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements. We want to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this document. Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such factors include, among others:
•the cyclical nature of our business and the impact of global supply and demand on our selling prices;
•the global commodity nature of our nitrogen products, the conditions in the international market for nitrogen products, and the intense global competition from other producers;
•conditions in the United States, Europe and other agricultural areas, including the influence of governmental policies and technological developments on the demand for agricultural products;
•the volatility of natural gas prices in North America and the United Kingdom;
•weather conditions and the impact of severe adverse weather events;
•the seasonality of the fertilizer business;
•the impact of changing market conditions on our forward sales programs;
•difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials, increases in their costs or delays or interruptions in their delivery;
•reliance on third party providers of transportation services and equipment;
•our reliance on a limited number of key facilities;
•risks associated with cyber security;
•acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism;
•risks associated with international operations;
•the significant risks and hazards involved in producing and handling our products against which we may not be fully insured;
•our ability to manage our indebtedness and any additional indebtedness that may be incurred;
•our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our revolving credit agreement and the agreements governing our indebtedness;
•downgrades of our credit ratings;
•risks associated with changes in tax laws and disagreements with taxing authorities;
•risks involving derivatives and the effectiveness of our risk measurement and hedging activities;
•potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and permitting requirements;
•regulatory restrictions and requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions;
•the development and growth of the market for green and blue (low-carbon) ammonia and the risks and uncertainties relating to the development and implementation of our green and blue ammonia projects;
•risks associated with expansions of our business, including unanticipated adverse consequences and the significant resources that could be required;
•risks associated with the operation or management of the CHS strategic venture, risks and uncertainties relating to the market prices of the fertilizer products that are the subject of our supply agreement with CHS over the life of the supply agreement, and the risk that any challenges related to the CHS strategic venture will harm our other business relationships; and
•the impact of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on our business and operations.

27

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.
None.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES.
Information regarding our facilities and properties is included in Item 1. Business—Nitrogen Manufacturing Facilities and Item 1. Business—Storage Facilities and Other Properties.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
Litigation
West Fertilizer Co.
On April 17, 2013, there was a fire and explosion at the West Fertilizer Co. fertilizer storage and distribution facility in West, Texas. According to published reports, 15 people were killed and approximately 200 people were injured in the incident, and the fire and explosion damaged or destroyed a number of homes and buildings around the facility. Various subsidiaries of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (the CF Entities) were named as defendants along with other companies in lawsuits filed in 2013, 2014 and 2015 in the District Court of McLennan County, Texas by the City of West, individual residents of the County and other parties seeking recovery for damages allegedly sustained as a result of the explosion. The cases were consolidated for discovery and pretrial proceedings in the District Court of McLennan County under the caption “In re: West Explosion Cases.” The two-year statute of limitations expired on April 17, 2015. As of that date, over 400 plaintiffs had filed claims, including at least 9 entities, 325 individuals, and 80 insurance companies. Plaintiffs allege various theories of negligence, strict liability, and breach of warranty under Texas law. Although we did not own or operate the facility or directly sell our products to West Fertilizer Co., products that the CF Entities manufactured and sold to others were delivered to the facility and may have been stored at the West facility at the time of the incident.
The Court granted in part and denied in part the CF Entities’ Motions for Summary Judgment in August 2015. Nearly all of the cases, including all wrongful death and personal injury claims, have been resolved pursuant to confidential settlements that have been or we expect will be fully funded by insurance. The remaining subrogation and statutory indemnification claims total approximately $37 million, before prejudgment interest, and are in various stages of discovery and pre-trial proceedings. The remaining claims are expected to be set for trial in 2022. We believe we have strong legal and factual defenses and intend to continue defending the CF Entities vigorously in the remaining lawsuits. The Company cannot provide a range of reasonably possible loss due to the uncertain nature of this litigation, including uncertainties around the potential allocation of responsibility by a jury to other defendants or responsible third parties. The recognition of a potential loss in the future in the West Fertilizer Co. litigation could negatively affect our results in the period of recognition. However, based upon currently available information, we expect any potential loss to be fully indemnified by insurance and do not believe that this litigation will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Environmental
For information on pending proceedings relating to environmental remediation matters, see Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety—CERCLA/Remediation Matters and Note 21—Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.

ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not applicable.

28

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CF.” As of February 14, 2022, there were 677 stockholders of record.
The following table sets forth share repurchases, on a trade date basis, for each of the three months of the quarter ended December 31, 2021:

------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------- - -------
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Period Totalnumberof shares(or units)purchased Averageprice paidper share(or unit)(1) Total number ofshares (or units)purchased as part ofpublicly announcedplans or programs(2) Maximum number (orapproximate dollarvalue) of shares (orunits) that may yet bepurchased under theplans or programs(in thousands)(2)
October 1, 2021 - October 31, 2021 7,717 (3) $ 60.56 — $ 513,429
November 1, 2021 - November 30, 2021 656,695 (4) 64.32 652,352 471,441
December 1, 2021 - December 31, 2021 6,816,628 (5) 65.85 6,816,416 22,577
Total 7,481,040 $ 65.71 7,468,768

__________________________________________________________________________
(1)Average price paid per share of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (CF Holdings) common stock repurchased under the 2019 Stock Repurchase Program, as defined below, is the execution price, excluding commissions paid to brokers.
(2)On February 13, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of CF Holdings common stock through December 31, 2021 (the 2019 Share Repurchase Program). On November 3, 2021, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of CF Holdings common stock from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024 (the 2021 Share Repurchase Program). These share repurchase programs are discussed in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Share Repurchase Programs and in Note 19—Stockholders’ Equity, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(3)Represents shares withheld to pay employee tax obligations upon the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock units and upon the exercise of nonqualified stock options, and shares withheld to cover the price of shares issued upon the exercise of nonqualified stock options.
(4)Includes 4,343 shares withheld to pay employee tax obligations upon the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units.
(5)Includes 212 shares withheld to pay employee tax obligations upon the lapse of restrictions on restricted stock units.

ITEM 6.    [RESERVED]

29

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. All references to “CF Holdings,” “we,” “us,” “our” and “the Company” refer to CF Industries Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, except where the context makes clear that the reference is only to CF Industries Holdings, Inc. itself and not its subsidiaries. All references to “CF Industries” refer to CF Industries, Inc., a 100% owned subsidiary of CF Industries Holdings, Inc. References to tons refer to short tons and references to tonnes refer to metric tons. Notes referenced in this discussion and analysis refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements that are found in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion and analysis of the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019, you should read Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 24, 2021. The following is an outline of the discussion and analysis included herein:
•Overview of CF Holdings
•Our Company
•Our Commitment to a Clean Energy Economy
•Industry Factors
•Market Conditions and Current Developments
•Financial Executive Summary
•Items Affecting Comparability of Results
•Consolidated Results of Operations
•Operating Results by Business Segment
•Liquidity and Capital Resources
•Critical Accounting Estimates
•Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Overview of CF Holdings
Our Company
Our mission is to provide clean energy to feed and fuel the world sustainably. With our employees focused on safe and reliable operations, environmental stewardship, and disciplined capital and corporate management, we are on a path to decarbonize our ammonia production network – the world’s largest – to enable green and blue hydrogen and nitrogen products for energy, fertilizer, emissions abatement, and other industrial activities. Our nine manufacturing complexes in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, an extensive storage, transportation and distribution network in North America, and logistics capabilities enabling a global reach underpin our strategy to leverage our unique capabilities to accelerate the world’s transition to clean energy. Our principal customers are cooperatives, independent fertilizer distributors, traders, wholesalers and industrial users. Our core product is anhydrous ammonia (ammonia), which contains 82% nitrogen and 18% hydrogen. Our nitrogen products that are upgraded from ammonia are granular urea, urea ammonium nitrate solution (UAN) and ammonium nitrate (AN). Our other nitrogen products include diesel exhaust fluid (DEF), urea liquor, nitric acid and aqua ammonia, which are sold primarily to our industrial customers, and compound fertilizer products (NPKs), which are solid granular fertilizer products for which the nutrient content is a combination of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium.
Our principal assets as of December 31, 2021 include:
•five U.S. nitrogen manufacturing facilities, located in Donaldsonville, Louisiana (the largest nitrogen complex in the world); Port Neal, Iowa; Yazoo City, Mississippi; Verdigris, Oklahoma; and Woodward, Oklahoma. These facilities are wholly owned directly or indirectly by CF Industries Nitrogen, LLC (CFN), of which we own approximately 89% and CHS Inc. (CHS) owns the remainder. See Note 18—Noncontrolling Interest for additional information on our strategic venture with CHS;
•two Canadian nitrogen manufacturing facilities, located in Medicine Hat, Alberta (the largest nitrogen complex in Canada) and Courtright, Ontario;
•two United Kingdom nitrogen manufacturing facilities, located in Billingham and Ince;

30

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

•an extensive system of terminals and associated transportation equipment located primarily in the Midwestern United States; and
•a 50% interest in Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited (PLNL), an ammonia production joint venture located in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago that we account for under the equity method.
Our Commitment to a Clean Energy Economy
We are taking significant steps to support a global hydrogen and clean fuel economy, through the production of green and blue ammonia. Since ammonia is one of the most efficient ways to transport and store hydrogen and is also a fuel in its own right, we believe that the Company, as the world’s largest producer of ammonia, with an unparalleled manufacturing and distribution network and deep technical expertise, is uniquely positioned to fulfill anticipated demand for hydrogen and ammonia from green and blue sources. Our approach includes green ammonia production, which refers to ammonia produced through a carbon-free process, and blue ammonia production, which relates to ammonia produced by conventional processes but with CO2 removed through carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) and other certified carbon abatement projects.
In October 2020, we announced an initial green ammonia project at our Donaldsonville complex. In April 2021, we signed an engineering and procurement contract with thyssenkrupp to supply a 20 MW alkaline water electrolysis plant to produce green hydrogen at our Donaldsonville complex. Construction and installation, which is being managed by us, began in the fourth quarter of 2021 and is expected to finish in 2023, with an estimated total cost of approximately $100 million. The cost of the project is expected to fit within our annual capital expenditure budgets. We will integrate the green hydrogen generated by the electrolysis plant into existing ammonia synthesis loops to enable the production of approximately 20,000 tons per year of green ammonia. We believe that, when completed in 2023, the Donaldsonville green ammonia project will be the largest of its kind in North America.
In the third quarter of 2021, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Mitsui & Co., Inc. (Mitsui) that will guide us in a joint exploration of the development of blue ammonia projects in the United States. The preliminary studies we are conducting with Mitsui cover areas such as blue ammonia supply and supply chain infrastructure, CO2 transportation and storage, expected environmental impacts, and blue ammonia economics and marketing opportunities in Japan and in other countries.
We have also announced steps to produce blue ammonia from our ammonia production network. In the fourth quarter of 2021, our Board of Directors authorized projects that we believe will enable the annual production of up to 1.25 million tons of blue ammonia from our existing network starting in 2024. The projects will involve constructing units at our Donaldsonville and Yazoo City complexes that dehydrate and compress CO2, a process essential for CO2 transport via pipeline to sequestration sites. Management expects that, once the units are in service and sequestration is initiated, we could sequester up to 2.5 million tons of CO2 per year (2 million tons at Donaldsonville and 500,000 tons at Yazoo City). Under current regulations, the projects would be expected to qualify for tax credits under Section 45Q of the Internal Revenue Code, which provides a credit per tonne of CO2 sequestered.
Construction of the units at the Donaldsonville complex is expected to begin in 2022 and to be completed in 2024, with an estimated total cost of $200 million. The Yazoo City project will be timed to coincide with CO2 transport pipeline construction. Once started, the project is expected to be completed in three years with an estimated total cost of $85 million. In addition, we are currently in advanced discussions with several parties regarding transportation and sequestration of CO2 from Donaldsonville.

Industry Factors
We operate in a highly competitive, global industry. Our operating results are influenced by a broad range of factors, including those outlined below.
Global Supply and Demand Factors
Our products are globally traded commodities and are subject to price competition. The customers for our products make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and, to a lesser extent, on customer service and product quality. The selling prices of our products fluctuate in response to global market conditions, changes in supply and demand and cost factors.
Historically, global fertilizer demand has been driven primarily by population growth, gross domestic product growth, changes in dietary habits, planted acreage, and application rates, among other things. We expect these key variables to continue to have major impacts on long-term fertilizer demand for the foreseeable future. Short-term fertilizer demand growth may depend on global economic conditions, farm sector income, weather patterns, the level of global grain stocks relative to

31

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

consumption, fertilizer application rates, and governmental regulations, including fertilizer subsidies or requirements mandating increased use of bio-fuels or industrial nitrogen products. Other geopolitical factors like temporary disruptions in fertilizer trade related to government intervention or changes in the buying/selling patterns of key exporting/consuming countries such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, among others, often play a major role in shaping near-term market fundamentals. The economics of nitrogen-based fertilizer manufacturing play a key role in decisions to increase or reduce production capacity. Supply of fertilizers is generally driven by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs and availability, government policies and global trade. Raw materials are dependent on energy sources such as natural gas or coal; therefore, supply costs are affected by the supply of and demand for these commodities.
Global Trade in Fertilizer
In addition to the relationship between global supply and demand, profitability within a particular geographic region is determined by the supply/demand balance within that region. Regional supply and demand can be influenced significantly by factors affecting trade within regions. Some of these factors include the relative cost to produce and deliver product, relative currency values, the availability of credit, agricultural supply and demand, industrial product demand and policies such as emissions abatement and governmental nitrogen product trade policies, including the imposition of duties, tariffs or quotas, that affect foreign trade or investment. The development of additional natural gas reserves in North America over the last decade has decreased natural gas costs relative to the rest of the world, making North American nitrogen fertilizer producers more competitive. Changes in currency values may also alter our cost competitiveness relative to producers in other regions of the world.
Imports account for a significant portion of the nitrogen fertilizer consumed in North America. Producers of nitrogen-based fertilizers located in the Middle East, the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, North Africa and Russia have been major exporters to North America in recent years. As a result, the North American nitrogen fertilizer market for certain nitrogen products is dependent on imports to balance supply and demand.
Farmers’ Economics
The demand for fertilizer is affected by the aggregate crop planting decisions and fertilizer application rate decisions of individual farmers. Individual farmers make planting decisions based largely on prospective profitability of a harvest, while the specific varieties and amounts of fertilizer they apply depend on factors like their current liquidity, soil conditions, weather patterns, crop and fertilizer prices, fertilizer products used and timing of applications, expected yields and the types of crops planted.

Market Conditions and Current Developments
Selling Prices and Sales Volume
The selling prices for all of our major products were higher in 2021 than 2020, driven by the impact of a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance, as a result of strong global demand as well as decreased global supply availability as higher global energy costs drove lower global operating rates. The average selling price for our products for 2021 and 2020 was $353 per ton and $203 per ton, respectively. The increase in average selling prices of 74% in 2021 from 2020 resulted in an increase in net sales of approximately $2.76 billion.
Our total sales volume was 9% lower in 2021 than in 2020 with lower sales volume reported in all segments. We shipped 18.5 million tons of product in 2021 compared to 20.3 million tons in 2020 due primarily to lower supply from the impact of both planned and unplanned maintenance activity and the impact of weather-related outages. The lower sales volumes also reflect the idling of certain portions of our U.K. operations in September due to the United Kingdom energy crisis, which is further discussed below. Lower sales volume resulted in a decrease in net sales of approximately $404 million.

32

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Sales volume for our products in 2021, 2020 and 2019 is shown in the table below.

------------- ---------------------------------------- --------- ----- ------------------- --------- ------ ------------------- ----- --------- ----- ----- ------ ----- - -----
 2021 2020 2019
 Sales Volume (tons) Net Sales Sales Volume (tons) Net Sales Sales Volume (tons) Net Sales
 (tons in thousands; dollars in millions)

Ammonia 3,589 $ 1,787 3,767 $ 1,020 3,516 $ 1,113
Granular urea 4,290 1,880 5,148 1,248 4,849 1,342
UAN 6,584 1,788 6,843 1,063 6,807 1,270
AN 1,720 510 2,216 455 2,109 506
Other 2,318 573 2,322 338 2,257 359
Total 18,501 $ 6,538 20,296 $ 4,124 19,538 $ 4,590

Natural Gas Prices
Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce our nitrogen products. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as a fuel to produce nitrogen products. Natural gas is a significant cost component of manufactured nitrogen products, representing approximately 40% of our production costs in 2021. The following table presents the average daily market price of natural gas at the Henry Hub, the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing point in North America, and the National Balancing Point, the major trading point for natural gas in the United Kingdom:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ---- ---- ------------ ------------ ---- - ----- --- - - ------ ---- -
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019 2021 v. 2020 2020 v. 2019
Natural gas supplemental data (per MMBtu)

Average daily market price of natural gas Henry Hub (Louisiana) $ 3.82 $ 1.99 $ 2.51 $ 1.83 92 % $ (0.52) (21) %
Average daily market price of natural gas National Balancing Point (United Kingdom) $ 15.50 $ 3.20 $ 4.44 $ 12.30 384 % $ (1.24) (28) %

Most of our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada. As a result, the price of natural gas in North America directly impacts a substantial portion of our operating expenses. North American natural gas prices during 2021 were higher on average than during 2020 due to tight supply and demand conditions within the market. Demand for natural gas was strong throughout 2021 as cold weather early in the year, including the impact of Winter Storm Uri in February, contributed to strength in demand. Warmer weather in the summer of 2021 contributed to higher natural gas usage for electrical generation, and the economy emerging from COVID-19 pandemic conditions added to the strong summer demand. The supply response from natural gas producers during 2021 was insufficient to offset these demand factors, leading to higher prices throughout the year. In addition, liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports increased significantly in 2021 compared to 2020 as favorable pricing differentials between North America and global natural gas prices led LNG facilities in the United States to run at near maximum levels. The average daily market price at the Henry Hub, the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing point in North America, was $3.82 per MMBtu for 2021 compared to $1.99 per MMBtu for 2020, an increase of 92%. During 2021, the daily closing price at the Henry Hub reached a low of $2.36 per MMBtu on April 7, 2021 and a high of $23.61 per MMBtu on February 18, 2021 as a result of Winter Storm Uri.
In February 2021, the central portion of the United States experienced extreme and unprecedented cold weather due to the impact of Winter Storm Uri. Certain natural gas suppliers and natural gas pipelines declared force majeure events due to natural gas well freeze-offs or frozen equipment. This occurred at the same time as large increases in natural gas demand were occurring due to the cold temperatures. Due to these unprecedented factors, several states declared a state of emergency, and natural gas was redirected for residential use. At certain of our manufacturing locations, we reduced our natural gas consumption, and, as a consequence, our plants at these locations either operated at reduced rates or temporarily suspended operations. We net settled certain natural gas contracts with our suppliers and received prevailing market prices, which were in excess of our cost. As a result, we recognized a gain of $112 million, which is reflected in cost of sales in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021.

33

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Our two nitrogen manufacturing facilities located in the United Kingdom are subject to fluctuations associated with the price of natural gas in Europe. The price of natural gas in the United Kingdom increased throughout 2021 and reached unprecedented high levels in the third quarter, and even higher levels in the fourth quarter. The increase in natural gas prices was due to the combination of low storage levels in Europe, reduced supply from Russia, and a tight global supply and demand balance in the LNG market as a result of strong demand in both Europe and Asia to fill storage locations in anticipation of winter. Due to the high price levels for natural gas, we halted certain of our U.K. manufacturing operations in September 2021. See the discussion under “United Kingdom Energy Crisis,” below, for further information.
The major natural gas trading point for the United Kingdom is the National Balancing Point (NBP). The average daily market price at NBP was $15.50 per MMBtu for 2021 compared to $3.20 per MMBtu for 2020, an increase of 384%. During 2021, the daily closing price at NBP reached a low of $5.58 per MMBtu on February 23, 2021 and a high of $60.10 per MMBtu on December 22, 2021. The average daily market price of natural gas at NBP for January 2022 was $25.91 per MMBtu.
In 2021, the total cost of natural gas used for production at all of our locations, which includes the impact of realized natural gas derivatives and excludes the $112 million gain that resulted from the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts with our suppliers, increased 88% to $4.21 from $2.24 per MMBtu in 2020. This increase in natural gas costs resulted in a decrease in gross margin of $663 million.
United Kingdom Energy Crisis
During the third quarter of 2021, the United Kingdom began experiencing an energy crisis that included a substantial increase in the price of natural gas. In the first half of 2021, natural gas prices had increased to levels that were considered high compared to historical prices, and prices then more than doubled in the third quarter of 2021.
On September 15, 2021, we announced the halt of operations at both our Ince and Billingham manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom due to negative profitability driven by the high cost of natural gas. The halt of operations at our U.K. plants impacted the availability of certain products in the United Kingdom, including carbon dioxide, which is a byproduct of ammonia production. Due to the critical nature of carbon dioxide to certain industries in the United Kingdom, on September 21, 2021, we entered into an interim agreement with the U.K. government. Under the terms of the agreement, the U.K. government agreed to cover the costs to restart the ammonia plant at Billingham and to offset losses incurred from production for a 21-day period. As a result, we resumed production of ammonia at the Billingham facility in order to produce carbon dioxide for the United Kingdom. While the interim agreement was in place, we entered into new carbon dioxide pricing and offtake agreements with our customers, which had an initial term through January 31, 2022. The amount of financial support provided by the U.K. government under the terms of the interim agreement was not material. As of the filing of this report, production continues at our Billingham facility and continues to be idled at our Ince facility.
During the third quarter of 2021, the U.K. energy crisis necessitated an evaluation of the long-lived assets, including the definite-lived intangible assets, and goodwill of our U.K. operations to determine if their fair value had declined to below their carrying value. We concluded that a decline in fair value had occurred, and we recorded long-lived asset and goodwill impairment charges of $495 million. The continued impacts of the U.K. energy crisis in the fourth quarter of 2021 triggered an additional impairment test, and we recognized an additional goodwill impairment charge of $26 million. We recognized total impairment charges of $521 million in 2021, consisting of long-lived and intangible asset impairment charges of $236 million and goodwill impairment charges of $285 million. See “Items Affecting Comparability of Results—U.K. energy crisis impacts,” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources—United Kingdom Energy Crisis,” below, Note 6—United Kingdom Energy Crisis and Impairment Charges, Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment—Net and Note 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further information. As of December 31, 2021, after the recognition of the $521 million of impairment charges noted above, we have no remaining goodwill related to our U.K. operations, and the remaining long-lived assets related to our U.K. operations were approximately $425 million, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment.
The results of our U.K. operations are included in our Ammonia, AN and Other segments, and account for a small portion of our consolidated gross margin. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our U.K. operations generated negative gross margin representing approximately 1% of our consolidated gross margin. For the year ended December 31, 2020, gross margin generated by our U.K. operations accounted for 2% of our consolidated gross margin.

34

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Manufacturing Costs and Granular Urea Purchases
In 2021, we experienced lower production levels and higher manufacturing and maintenance costs than in 2020. Certain of our plants operated at lower operating rates or temporarily suspended operations during 2021 due to the lack of natural gas due to Winter Storm Uri or the impact of Hurricane Ida, or due to maintenance activity, including activity that was deferred from 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, we had the highest level of maintenance activity in our history, including turnarounds at seven of our 17 ammonia plants. Because of these factors, including the halt of operations in the United Kingdom, we incurred higher costs for manufacturing, maintenance and repair activity for both scheduled and unscheduled downtime in 2021.
In response to the lower production in 2021 as a result of weather conditions and maintenance activity, we procured additional granular urea in order to meet customer obligations and provide additional manufacturing flexibility. In the year ended December 31, 2021, we purchased approximately $71 million of granular urea, which we sold to customers for $68 million.
COVID-19 Pandemic
In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) as a pandemic. Due to the use of fertilizer products in crop production to support the global food supply chain, our business operations were designated as part of the critical infrastructure by the United States and as essential businesses in the United Kingdom and Canada, with corresponding designations by those states and provinces in which we operate. As a result, our manufacturing complexes were permitted to continue to operate and, through the date of this report, we have not suspended or shutdown operations as a result of the pandemic. In addition, we have continued to ship products by all modes of transportation to our customers, and we have not experienced any significant delays in marine, rail or truck transportation services due to the pandemic. Through the date of this report, we have not experienced any meaningful impact in customer demand as a result of the pandemic.
In response to the pandemic along with the rise of new variants of COVID-19, we instituted and have continued to enforce safety precautions and encourage safe behavior in order to protect the health and well-being of all of our employees. We will continue to monitor safety guidelines related to COVID-19 as issued by governmental authorities and adjust our safety protocols, as needed.

35

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Financial Executive Summary
We reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $917 million in 2021 compared to $317 million in 2020, an increase in net earnings of 189%, or $600 million. Diluted net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders increased $2.77 per share, to $4.24 per share in 2021 compared to $1.47 per share in 2020. These increases were due primarily to higher operating results driven by an increase in gross margin, partially offset by impairment charges related to our U.K. operations.
Impact of higher gross margin
Gross margin increased by $1.59 billion in 2021 to $2.39 billion as compared to $801 million in 2020. The following table and related discussion describe the significant factors that drove the increase in gross margin.

-------------- ---------------------------- ----- ------------------------------------ --------- --------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----------------------------------------------- -- - ----- ---------------------------- ---- ---- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 Variance due to the following items:
 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Higher Average Selling Prices(1) Volume(1) Higher Natural Gas Costs(2) Unrealized MTM on natural gas derivatives(3) Higher Manufacturing, Maintenance and Other Costs Increase in Purchased Urea(4) Gain on Net Settlement of Natural Gas Contracts Year Ended December 31, 2021
 (dollars in millions)

Consolidated
Net sales $ 4,124 $ 2,757 $ (404) $ — $ — $ — $ 61 $ — $ 6,538
Cost of sales 3,323 — (312) 663 31 494 64 (112) 4,151
Gross margin $ 801 $ 2,757 $ (92) $ (663) $ (31) $ (494) $ (3) $ 112 $ 2,387
Gross margin % 19.4 % 36.5 %

_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)Selling price and volume impact of granular urea purchased to satisfy customer commitments is reflected in the Increase in Purchased Urea column.
(2)Higher natural gas costs include the impact, if any, of realized natural gas derivatives.
(3)Represents the variance in the net unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on natural gas derivatives compared to the prior year period.
(4)Represents the impact of the incremental tons compared to the prior year period.
•Average selling prices increased 74% in 2021 to $353 per ton from $203 per ton in 2020, which increased gross margin by approximately $2.76 billion,
•Sales volume decreased 9% to 18.5 million product tons in 2021 from 20.3 million product tons in 2020, which reduced gross margin by approximately $92 million,
•The cost of natural gas used for production increased 88% to $4.21 per MMBtu in 2021 from $2.24 per MMBtu in 2020, which reduced gross margin by $663 million,
•We incurred higher manufacturing, maintenance and other costs, which reduced gross margin by $494 million, due primarily to higher plant turnaround and maintenance activity,
•We purchased 201,000 tons of granular urea for $71 million to meet customer obligations, which we sold to customers for $68 million, and
•The gain on the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts with our suppliers as a result of Winter Storm Uri was $112 million.
Impact of impairment charges
Net earnings and diluted net earnings per share in 2021 were impacted by impairment charges related to our U.K. operations of $521 million, consisting of long-lived and intangible asset impairment charges of $236 million and goodwill impairment charges of $285 million. The after-tax impact of the impairment charges to net earnings attributable to common stockholders and diluted net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders was $463 million and $2.14, respectively. See “Market Conditions and Current Developments—United Kingdom Energy Crisis,” above, Note 6—United Kingdom Energy Crisis and Impairment Charges, Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment—Net and Note 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, for further information.

36

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The following table includes gross margin, operating earnings, earnings before income taxes, net earnings attributable to common stockholders and diluted net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders for 2021, and shows the impact of the impairment charges on each of these measures by also including the corresponding “as adjusted” measure, which excludes the before- and after-tax impacts of the impairment charges. Management utilizes these “as adjusted” measures, and believes they provide useful information to investors, for assessing period-to-period changes in our underlying operating performance, because these “as adjusted” measures exclude the non-cash impairment charges that resulted from the U.K. energy crisis, as more fully described above.

------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- ----- ---------------------------- ---- -------------- - ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31, 2021
 As reported Impact of impairment charges As adjusted(1)
 (dollars in millions, except per share)
Gross margin $ 2,387 $ — $ 2,387
Operating earnings 1,729 521 2,250
Earnings before income taxes 1,543 521 2,064
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders 917 463 1,380
Diluted net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders 4.24 2.14 6.38

_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)The “as adjusted” financial measures presented above are non-GAAP financial measures that should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, our reported results calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP).

Items Affecting Comparability of Results
In addition to the impact of market conditions discussed above, certain items impacted the comparability of our financial results during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. The following table and related discussion outline these items and how they impacted the comparability of our financial results during these periods. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we reported net earnings attributable to common stockholders of $917 million and $317 million, respectively.

----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------ ---- ------- ------------ ---- ---- --- - ---

 2021 2020
 Pre-Tax After-Tax(1) Pre-Tax After-Tax(1)
 (in millions)
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives(2) $ 25 $ 19 $ (6) $ (5)
COVID impacts:
Special COVID-19 bonus for operational workforce(2) — — 19 15
Turnaround deferral(2) — — 7 6
Asset impairments 521 463 — —
Loss on foreign currency transactions, including intercompany loans(3) 6 5 5 4
Engineering cost write-off(3) — — 9 7
Loss on sale of surplus land(3) — — 2 1
Insurance proceeds(3) — — (37) (28)
Loss on debt extinguishment 19 15 — —

Terra amended tax returns—interest income and income tax benefit(4) — — (26) (44)

______________________________________________________________________________
(1)The tax impact is calculated utilizing a marginal effective rate of 23.6% and 23.2% in 2021 and 2020, respectively, except for asset impairments, which reflects the amount of income tax benefit recognized on the long-lived and intangible asset impairment charges.
(2)Included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of operations.
(3)Included in other operating—net in our consolidated statements of operations.
(4)Included in interest expense, interest income and income tax provision in our consolidated statements of operations.

37

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The following describes the significant items that impacted the comparability of our financial results in 2021 and 2020. Descriptions of items below that refer to amounts in the table above, refer to the pre-tax amounts, except for the discussion under Terra amended tax returns.
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives
Natural gas is the largest and most volatile single component of the manufacturing cost for nitrogen-based products. At certain times, we have managed the risk of changes in natural gas prices through the use of derivative financial instruments. The derivatives that we use for this purpose are primarily natural gas fixed price swaps, basis swaps and options. We use natural gas derivatives as an economic hedge of natural gas price risk, but without the application of hedge accounting. This can result in volatility in reported earnings due to the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments that occur from changes in the value of the derivatives, which are reflected in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of operations. In 2021 and 2020, we recognized an unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives of $25 million and $(6) million, respectively.
COVID impacts
In March 2020, a short-term bonus program was initiated to compensate operational employees for continuing their critical tasks at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. The bonus program concluded in June 2020. Approximately $19 million was paid as part of the program and was recognized in cost of sales in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020.
In addition, certain plant turnaround activities were deferred because of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, we incurred $7 million of expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was recognized in cost of sales in our consolidated statement of operations.
Asset impairments
As a result of the U.K. energy crisis and the events described under “Market Conditions and Current Developments—United Kingdom Energy Crisis,” above, we recognized impairment charges of $521 million in 2021, including long-lived and intangible asset impairment charges of $236 million and goodwill impairment charges of $285 million. See Note 6—United Kingdom Energy Crisis and Impairment Charges, Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment—Net and Note 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, for further information.
Loss on foreign currency transactions, including intercompany loans
In 2021 and 2020, we recognized losses of $6 million and $5 million, respectively, which consist of foreign currency exchange rate impacts on foreign currency denominated transactions, including the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany loans that were not permanently invested.
Engineering cost write-off
In 2020, a project at one of our nitrogen complexes was cancelled and, as a result, $9 million of previously capitalized engineering costs were expensed in the year ended December 31, 2020. The expense is reflected in other operating—net in our consolidated statement of operations.
Loss on sale of surplus land
In 2020, we recognized a loss of $2 million on the sale of surplus land, which is reflected in other operating—net in our consolidated statement of operations.
Insurance proceeds
We recognized income of $37 million in 2020 related to insurance claims at one of our nitrogen complexes, which consisted of $35 million related to business interruption insurance proceeds and $2 million related to property insurance proceeds. These proceeds are reflected in other operating—net in our consolidated statement of operations.
Loss on debt extinguishment
On March 20, 2021, we redeemed in full all of the remaining $250 million outstanding principal amount of the 3.400% senior secured notes due December 2021 (the 2021 Notes) in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2021 Notes. The total aggregate redemption price paid in connection with the redemption of the 2021 Notes was $258 million, including accrued interest. As a result, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $6 million, consisting primarily of the premium paid on the redemption of the 2021 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity.

38

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

On September 10, 2021, we redeemed $250 million principal amount, representing one-third of the $750 million principal amount outstanding immediately prior to such redemption, of the 3.450% senior notes due 2023 (the 2023 Notes), in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. The total aggregate redemption price paid in connection with the redemption of the 2023 Notes was approximately $265 million, including accrued interest. As a result, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $13 million, consisting primarily of the premium paid on the redemption of the $250 million principal amount of the 2023 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity.
Terra amended tax returns
We completed the acquisition of Terra Industries Inc. (Terra) in April 2010. After the acquisition, we determined that the manner in which Terra reported the repatriation of cash from foreign affiliates to its U.S. parent for U.S. and foreign income tax purposes was not appropriate. As a result, in 2012 we amended certain tax returns, including Terra’s income and withholding tax returns, back to 1999 (the Amended Tax Returns) and paid additional income and withholding taxes, and related interest and penalties. In 2013, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) commenced an examination of the U.S. tax aspects of the Amended Tax Returns.
In 2020, we received IRS Notices indicating the amount of tax and interest to be refunded and received with respect to the income tax and withholding tax returns. As a result, we recognized $26 million ($23 million, net of tax) of interest-related income and $18 million of additional income tax benefit. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Terra Amended Tax Returns,” below, for additional information.

39

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Consolidated Results of Operations
The following table presents our consolidated results of operations and supplemental data:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---- ------ ------- ----- ------------ - ------------ ------- - ----- ----- ----- ----- --- ----- ---- ---- ------ --- ---- -
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019(1) 2021 v. 2020 2020 v. 2019
 (in millions, except as noted)
Net sales $ 6,538 $ 4,124 $ 4,590 $ 2,414 59 % $ (466) (10) %
Cost of sales (COS) 4,151 3,323 3,416 828 25 % (93) (3) %
Gross margin 2,387 801 1,174 1,586 198 % (373) (32) %
Gross margin percentage 36.5 % 19.4 % 25.6 % 17.1 % (6.2) %
Selling, general and administrative expenses 223 206 239 17 8 % (33) (14) %
Goodwill impairment 285 — — 285 N/M — — %
Long-lived and intangible asset impairment 236 — — 236 N/M — — %
Other operating—net (39) (17) (73) (22) (129) % 56 77 %
Total other operating costs and expenses 705 189 166 516 273 % 23 14 %

Equity in earnings (loss) of operating affiliate 47 11 (5) 36 327 % 16 N/M
Operating earnings 1,729 623 1,003 1,106 178 % (380) (38) %
Interest expense—net 183 161 217 22 14 % (56) (26) %
Loss on debt extinguishment 19 — 21 19 N/M (21) (100) %
Other non-operating—net (16) (1) (7) (15) N/M 6 86 %
Earnings before income taxes 1,543 463 772 1,080 233 % (309) (40) %
Income tax provision 283 31 126 252 N/M (95) (75) %

Net earnings 1,260 432 646 828 192 % (214) (33) %
Less: Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 343 115 153 228 198 % (38) (25) %
Net earnings attributable to common stockholders $ 917 $ 317 $ 493 $ 600 189 % $ (176) (36) %
Diluted net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders $ 4.24 $ 1.47 $ 2.23 $ 2.77 188 % $ (0.76) (34) %
Diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding 216.2 215.2 221.6 1.0 — % (6.4) (3) %
Dividends declared per common share $ 1.20 $ 1.20 $ 1.20 $ — — % $ — — %
Natural gas supplemental data (per MMBtu)

Cost of natural gas used for production in COS(2) $ 4.21 $ 2.24 $ 2.74 $ 1.97 88 % $ (0.50) (18) %
Average daily market price of natural gas Henry Hub (Louisiana) $ 3.82 $ 1.99 $ 2.51 $ 1.83 92 % $ (0.52) (21) %
Average daily market price of natural gas National Balancing Point (United Kingdom) $ 15.50 $ 3.20 $ 4.44 $ 12.30 384 % $ (1.24) (28) %
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives $ 25 $ (6) $ 14 $ 31 N/M $ (20) N/M
Depreciation and amortization $ 888 $ 892 $ 875 $ (4) — % $ 17 2 %
Capital expenditures $ 514 $ 309 $ 404 $ 205 66 % $ (95) (24) %
Sales volume by product tons (000s) 18,501 20,296 19,538 (1,795) (9) % 758 4 %
Production volume by product tons (000s):
Ammonia(3) 9,349 10,353 10,246 (1,004) (10) % 107 1 %
Granular urea 4,123 5,001 4,941 (878) (18) % 60 1 %
UAN (32%) 6,763 6,677 6,768 86 1 % (91) (1) %
AN 1,646 2,115 2,128 (469) (22) % (13) (1) %

______________________________________________________________________________
N/M—Not Meaningful
(1)For a discussion and analysis of the year ended December 31, 2019, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2021.
(2)Includes the cost of natural gas and related transportation that is included in cost of sales during the period under the first-in, first-out inventory cost method. Includes realized gains and losses on natural gas derivatives settled during the period. Excludes unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on natural gas derivatives.
(3)Gross ammonia production, including amounts subsequently upgraded on-site into granular urea, UAN, or AN.

40

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The following is a discussion and analysis of our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. For a discussion and analysis of our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2021.
Net Sales
Our net sales are derived primarily from the sale of nitrogen products and are determined by the quantities of nitrogen products we sell and the selling prices we realize. The volumes, mix and selling prices we realize are determined to a great extent by a combination of global and regional supply and demand factors. Net sales also include shipping and handling costs that are billed to our customers. Sales incentives are reported as a reduction in net sales.
Our total net sales increased $2.41 billion, or 59%, to $6.54 billion in 2021 compared to $4.12 billion in 2020 due to a 74% increase in average selling prices, partially offset by a 9% decrease in sales volume.
Average selling prices were $353 per ton in 2021 compared to $203 per ton in 2020, an increase of 74%, due to higher average selling prices across all of our segments, primarily driven by the impact of a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance, as a result of strong global demand and decreased global supply availability as higher global energy costs drove lower global operating rates. Our total sales volume of 18.5 million product tons in 2021 was 9% lower compared to 20.3 million product tons in 2020 as a result of decreased supply due to lower production due primarily to a high level of plant turnaround and maintenance activity and downtime resulting from the impacts of Winter Storm Uri and Hurricane Ida.
Gross ammonia production for 2021 was approximately 9.3 million tons compared to 10.4 million tons in 2020. Management expects gross ammonia production for 2022 will return to historical levels (9.5 to 10.0 million tons) based on normal operating conditions and a return to a typical level of planned maintenance activities.
Cost of Sales
Our cost of sales includes manufacturing costs, purchased product costs, and distribution costs. Manufacturing costs, the most significant element of cost of sales, consist primarily of raw materials, realized and unrealized gains and losses on natural gas derivatives, maintenance, direct labor, depreciation and other plant overhead expenses. Purchased product costs primarily include the cost to purchase nitrogen fertilizers to augment or replace production at our facilities. Distribution costs consist of the cost of freight required to transport finished products from our plants to our distribution facilities, which are recognized in cost of sales when the product is sold to our customers, and storage costs incurred prior to final shipment to customers.
Our cost of sales increased $828 million, or 25%, to $4.15 billion in 2021 as compared to $3.32 billion in 2020. The increase in our cost of sales was due primarily to higher costs for natural gas, including the impact of realized derivatives, which increased cost of sales by $663 million; higher manufacturing, maintenance and other costs, which increased cost of sales by $494 million; and higher costs for purchased products as we purchased $71 million of granular urea in 2021 to meet customer obligations. Cost of sales also includes the impact of a $25 million unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives in 2021 compared to a $6 million gain in 2020.
These items increasing our cost of sales were partially offset by the $112 million gain we recognized from the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts with our suppliers in February 2021 due to Winter Storm Uri as described above under the heading “Natural Gas Prices” in the section titled “Market Conditions and Current Developments.” The $112 million gain on the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts in February 2021 is reflected in, and had the effect of reducing, our cost of sales in 2021. In addition, there was a $312 million decline in cost of sales in 2021, as compared to 2020, due primarily to a 9% decline in sales volume.
Cost of sales averaged $224 per ton in 2021, a 37% increase from $164 per ton in 2020. The cost of natural gas used for production, including the impact of realized derivatives, increased 88% to $4.21 per MMBtu in 2021 from $2.24 per MMBtu in 2020. The cost of natural gas used for production of $4.21 per MMBtu in 2021 does not include the $112 million gain from the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts in February 2021.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of corporate office expenses such as salaries and other payroll-related costs for our executive, administrative, legal, financial, IT, and sales functions, as well as certain taxes and insurance and other professional service fees, including those for corporate initiatives.

41

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $17 million, or 8%, to $223 million in 2021 from $206 million in 2020. The increase was due primarily to higher incentive compensation, due to strong operating performance.
Long-lived and Intangible Asset Impairment and Goodwill Impairment
In 2021, we recognized total impairment charges of $521 million, consisting of long-lived and intangible asset impairment charges of $236 million and goodwill impairment charges of $285 million. See “United Kingdom Energy Crisis” under “Market Conditions and Current Developments,” above for further information.
Other Operating—Net
Other operating—net includes administrative costs that do not relate directly to our central operations. Costs included in “other operating costs” can include foreign currency transaction gains and losses, unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency derivatives, litigation expenses and gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets.
Other operating—net was $39 million of income in 2021 compared to $17 million of income in 2020. The income in 2021 primarily includes a gain of $29 million on sales of carbon credits. In addition, other operating—net includes the amount received under the terms of the agreement with the U.K. government associated with the restart of our Billingham facility, partially offset by a loss on foreign currency transactions of $6 million, which includes the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany loans that were not permanently invested. The income in 2020 primarily includes insurance proceeds of $37 million, partially offset by $9 million of expense related to the cancellation of a project, which is described in the section above titled “Items Affecting Comparability of Results—Engineering cost write-off,” and a loss on foreign currency transactions of $5 million.
Equity in Earnings of Operating Affiliate
Equity in earnings of operating affiliate consists of our 50% ownership interest in PLNL. We include our share of the net earnings from our equity method investment in PLNL as an element of earnings from operations because this investment provides additional production and is integrated with our other supply chain and sales activities. Our share of the net earnings includes the amortization of certain tangible assets identified as part of the application of purchase accounting at acquisition.
Equity in earnings of operating affiliate was $47 million in 2021 compared to $11 million in 2020. The increase was due primarily to an increase in the operating results of PLNL as a result of higher ammonia selling prices partially offset by higher natural gas costs.
Interest Expense—Net
Our interest expense—net includes the interest expense on our long-term debt, amortization of the related fees required to execute financing agreements, annual fees pursuant to our revolving credit agreement and interest on tax liabilities. Capitalized interest relating to the construction of major capital projects reduces interest expense as the interest is capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Interest expense—net also includes interest income, which includes amounts earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and investments and any interest earned related to income tax refunds.
Net interest expense increased by $22 million to $183 million in 2021 from $161 million in 2020. The increase was due primarily to $26 million of interest income in 2020 related to the finalization of the Terra amended tax returns, which is more fully described under “Items Affecting Comparability of Results—Terra Amended Tax Returns,” above.
Loss on Debt Extinguishment
On March 20, 2021, we redeemed in full all of the remaining $250 million outstanding principal amount of the 2021 Notes in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2021 Notes. The total aggregate redemption price paid in connection with the redemption on the 2021 Notes was $258 million, including accrued interest. As a result, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $6 million, consisting primarily of the premium paid on the redemption of the 2021 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity.
On September 10, 2021, we redeemed $250 million principal amount, representing one-third of the $750 million principal amount outstanding immediately prior to such redemption, of the 2023 Notes, in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. The total aggregate redemption price paid in connection with the redemption of the 2023 Notes was approximately $265 million, including accrued interest. As a result, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $13 million, consisting primarily of the premium paid on the redemption of the $250 million principal amount of the 2023 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity.

42

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Other Non-Operating—Net
Other non-operating—net was $16 million of income in 2021 compared to $1 million of income in 2020. The $16 million of income in 2021 was due primarily to a gain of $20 million on the sale of EU carbon credits that, due to Brexit, could no longer be utilized by our U.K. plants for carbon emission obligations in the United Kingdom.
Income Tax Provision
Our income tax provision for 2021 was $283 million on pre-tax income of $1,543 million, or an effective tax rate of 18.3%, compared to an income tax provision of $31 million on pre-tax income of $463 million, or an effective tax rate of 6.7%, in 2020.
For 2021, we did not record an income tax benefit related to the goodwill impairment charges described in Note 6—United Kingdom Energy Crisis and Impairment Charges as the goodwill impairment charges are non-deductible for income tax purposes. Our income tax provision for 2021 includes a $26 million benefit reflecting the impact of agreement on certain issues related to U.S. federal income tax audits, including a discrete income tax benefit of approximately $15 million due to the reversal of an accrual for unrecognized tax benefits as a result of the effective settlement of the U.S. federal income tax audit for the 2012-2016 tax years.
For 2020, our income tax provision includes a $27 million benefit related to the settlement of certain U.S. and foreign income tax audits, which primarily related to the settlement of the audit of the Terra amended tax returns, which is more fully described under “Items Affecting Comparability of Results—Terra Amended Tax Returns,” above.
Our effective tax rate is impacted by earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interest in CFN, as our consolidated income tax provision does not include a tax provision on the earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interest. Our effective tax rate for 2021 of 18.3%, which is based on pre-tax income of $1,543 million, would be 5.3 percentage points higher, or 23.6%, if based on pre-tax income exclusive of the earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interest of $343 million. Our effective tax rate for 2020 of 6.7%, which is based on pre-tax income of $463 million, would be 2.2 percentage points higher, or 8.9%, if based on pre-tax income exclusive of the earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interest of $115 million.
Both 2021 and 2020 were impacted by additional discrete tax items. See Note 11—Income Taxes for additional information.
Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest includes the net earnings attributable to the approximately 11% CHS minority equity interest in CFN, a subsidiary of CF Holdings.
Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest increased $228 million, or 198%, to $343 million in 2021 compared to $115 million in 2020 due to higher earnings of CFN driven by higher average selling prices due primarily to a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance as higher global energy costs drove lower global operating rates.
Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders
Net earnings per share attributable to common stockholders increased 188% to $4.24 per diluted share in 2021 from $1.47 per diluted share in 2020. This increase is due primarily to higher operating results driven by an increase in gross margin, partially offset by impairment charges related to our U.K. operations.

43

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Operating Results by Business Segment
Our reportable segment structure reflects how our chief operating decision maker, as defined in U.S. GAAP, assesses the performance of our reportable segments and makes decisions about resource allocation. These segments are differentiated by products. Our management uses gross margin to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Total other operating costs and expenses (consisting primarily of selling, general and administrative expenses and other operating—net) and non-operating expenses (consisting primarily of interest and income taxes), are centrally managed and are not included in the measurement of segment profitability reviewed by management. The following table presents summary operating results by business segment and the major drivers of the variance in net sales, cost of sales and gross margin:

-------------- ---------------------------- ----- ------------------------------------ --------- --------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----------------------------------------------- -- - ----- ---------------------------- ---- ---- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 Variance due to the following items:
 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Higher Average Selling Prices(1) Volume(1) Higher Natural Gas Costs(2) Unrealized MTM on natural gas derivatives(3) Higher Manufacturing, Maintenance and Other Costs Increase in Purchased Urea(4) Gain on Net Settlement of Natural Gas Contracts Year Ended December 31, 2021
 (dollars in millions)

Consolidated
Net sales $ 4,124 $ 2,757 $ (404) $ — $ — $ — $ 61 $ — $ 6,538
Cost of sales 3,323 — (312) 663 31 494 64 (112) 4,151
Gross margin $ 801 $ 2,757 $ (92) $ (663) $ (31) $ (494) $ (3) $ 112 $ 2,387
Gross margin % 19.4 % 36.5 %
Ammonia
Net sales $ 1,020 $ 792 $ (25) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,787
Cost of sales 850 — (33) 194 9 254 — (112) 1,162
Gross margin $ 170 $ 792 $ 8 $ (194) $ (9) $ (254) $ — $ 112 $ 625
Gross margin % 16.7 % 35.0 %
Granular Urea
Net sales $ 1,248 $ 814 $ (243) $ — $ — $ — $ 61 $ — $ 1,880
Cost of sales 847 — (155) 144 8 84 64 — 992
Gross margin $ 401 $ 814 $ (88) $ (144) $ (8) $ (84) $ (3) $ — $ 888
Gross margin % 32.1 % 47.2 %
UAN
Net sales $ 1,063 $ 756 $ (31) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1,788
Cost of sales 949 — (27) 168 7 22 — — 1,119
Gross margin $ 114 $ 756 $ (4) $ (168) $ (7) $ (22) $ — $ — $ 669
Gross margin % 10.7 % 37.4 %
AN
Net sales $ 455 $ 159 $ (104) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 510
Cost of sales 390 — (83) 97 4 67 — — 475
Gross margin $ 65 $ 159 $ (21) $ (97) $ (4) $ (67) $ — $ — $ 35
Gross margin % 14.3 % 6.9 %
Other
Net sales $ 338 $ 236 $ (1) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 573
Cost of sales 287 — (14) 60 3 67 — — 403
Gross margin $ 51 $ 236 $ 13 $ (60) $ (3) $ (67) $ — $ — $ 170
Gross margin % 15.1 % 29.7 %
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)Selling price and volume impact of granular urea purchased to satisfy customer commitments is reflected in the Increase in Purchased Urea column.
(2)Higher natural gas costs include the impact, if any, of realized natural gas derivatives.
(3)Represents the variance in the net unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on natural gas derivatives compared to the prior year period.
(4)Represents the impact of the incremental tons compared to the prior year period.

44

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The following is a discussion and analysis of our operating results by business segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. For a discussion and analysis of our operating results by business segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 24, 2021.
Ammonia Segment
Our ammonia segment produces anhydrous ammonia (ammonia), which is our most concentrated nitrogen product. Ammonia contains 82% nitrogen and 18% hydrogen. The results of our ammonia segment consist of sales of ammonia to external customers. In addition, ammonia is the base nitrogen product that we upgrade into other nitrogen products such as granular urea, UAN and AN. We produce ammonia at all of our nitrogen manufacturing complexes.
The following table presents summary operating data for our ammonia segment:

-------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------------ - ------------ ----- - --- --- ----- ---- --- - --- --- ---- --- ---- -
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019 2021 v. 2020 2020 v. 2019
 (in millions, except as noted)
Net sales $ 1,787 $ 1,020 $ 1,113 $ 767 75 % $ (93) (8) %
Cost of sales 1,162 850 878 312 37 % (28) (3) %
Gross margin $ 625 $ 170 $ 235 $ 455 268 % $ (65) (28) %
Gross margin percentage 35.0 % 16.7 % 21.1 % 18.3 % (4.4) %
Sales volume by product tons (000s) 3,589 3,767 3,516 (178) (5) % 251 7 %
Sales volume by nutrient tons (000s)(1) 2,944 3,090 2,884 (146) (5) % 206 7 %
Average selling price per product ton $ 498 $ 271 $ 317 $ 227 84 % $ (46) (15) %
Average selling price per nutrient ton(1) $ 607 $ 330 $ 386 $ 277 84 % $ (56) (15) %
Gross margin per product ton $ 174 $ 45 $ 67 $ 129 287 % $ (22) (33) %
Gross margin per nutrient ton(1) $ 212 $ 55 $ 81 $ 157 285 % $ (26) (32) %
Depreciation and amortization $ 209 $ 176 $ 167 $ 33 19 % $ 9 5 %
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives $ 7 $ (2) $ 4 $ 9 N/M $ (6) N/M

_______________________________________________________________________________
N/M—Not Meaningful
(1)Ammonia represents 82% nitrogen content. Nutrient tons represent the tons of nitrogen within the product tons.
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net Sales. Net sales in our ammonia segment increased by $767 million, or 75%, to $1.79 billion in 2021 from $1.02 billion in 2020 due primarily to an 84% increase in average selling prices, partially offset by a 5% decrease in sales volume. Average selling prices increased to $498 per ton in 2021 compared to $271 per ton in 2020. The increase in average selling prices was due primarily to the impact of a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance. Sales volume was lower in 2021 due primarily to lower supply availability resulting from reduced inventory and production due to plant turnaround and maintenance activity and from weather-related outages, including the impact of Winter Storm Uri and Hurricane Ida.
Cost of Sales. Cost of sales in our ammonia segment averaged $324 per ton in 2021, a 43% increase from $226 per ton in 2020. The increase is due primarily to higher realized natural gas costs, higher costs related to plant turnaround, maintenance and repair activity, and higher costs for ammonia purchased from our joint venture in Trinidad, partially offset by the impact of the $112 million gain on the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts in February 2021. See “Market Conditions and Current Developments” above, for additional information on the operational impact of Winter Storm Uri.
Gross Margin.  Gross margin in our ammonia segment increased by $455 million to $625 million in 2021 from $170 million in 2020, and our gross margin percentage was 35.0% in 2021 compared to 16.7% in 2020. The increase in gross margin was due primarily to an 84% increase in average selling prices, which increased gross margin by $792 million, and the $112 million gain on the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts in February 2021. These factors were partially offset by a $254 million net increase in manufacturing, maintenance and other costs, an increase in realized natural gas costs, which decreased gross margin by $194 million, and a 5% decrease in sales volume, which decreased gross margin by $8 million. Gross margin also includes the impact of a $7 million unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives in 2021 compared to a $2 million gain in 2020.

45

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Granular Urea Segment
Our granular urea segment produces granular urea, which contains 46% nitrogen. Produced from ammonia and carbon dioxide, it has the highest nitrogen content of any of our solid nitrogen fertilizers. Granular urea is produced at our Donaldsonville, Louisiana; Medicine Hat, Alberta; and Port Neal, Iowa nitrogen complexes.
The following table presents summary operating data for our granular urea segment:

-------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------------ - ------------ ----- - ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- - --- --- ---- --- ---- -
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019 2021 v. 2020 2020 v. 2019
 (in millions, except as noted)
Net sales $ 1,880 $ 1,248 $ 1,342 $ 632 51 % $ (94) (7) %
Cost of sales 992 847 861 145 17 % (14) (2) %
Gross margin $ 888 $ 401 $ 481 $ 487 121 % $ (80) (17) %
Gross margin percentage 47.2 % 32.1 % 35.8 % 15.1 % (3.7) %
Sales volume by product tons (000s) 4,290 5,148 4,849 (858) (17) % 299 6 %
Sales volume by nutrient tons (000s)(1) 1,973 2,368 2,231 (395) (17) % 137 6 %
Average selling price per product ton $ 438 $ 242 $ 277 $ 196 81 % $ (35) (13) %
Average selling price per nutrient ton(1) $ 953 $ 527 $ 602 $ 426 81 % $ (75) (12) %
Gross margin per product ton $ 207 $ 78 $ 99 $ 129 165 % $ (21) (21) %
Gross margin per nutrient ton(1) $ 450 $ 169 $ 216 $ 281 166 % $ (47) (22) %
Depreciation and amortization $ 235 $ 270 $ 264 $ (35) (13) % $ 6 2 %
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives $ 6 $ (2) $ 4 $ 8 N/M $ (6) N/M

______________________________________________________________________________
N/M—Not Meaningful
(1)Granular urea represents 46% nitrogen content. Nutrient tons represent the tons of nitrogen within the product tons.
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net Sales. Net sales in our granular urea segment increased $632 million, or 51%, to $1.88 billion in 2021 compared to $1.25 billion in 2020 due primarily to an 81% increase in average selling prices, partially offset by a 17% decrease in sales volume. Average selling prices increased to $438 per ton in 2021 compared to $242 per ton in 2020. The increase was due primarily to the impact of a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance. Sales volume was lower due primarily to lower supply availability resulting from reduced production due to plant turnaround, maintenance and repair activity and the impact of weather-related outages. Due to the reduced production, we purchased granular urea in 2021, which we sold for $68 million, to meet customer obligations.
Cost of Sales. Cost of sales in our granular urea segment averaged $231 per ton in 2021, a 41% increase from $164 per ton in 2020, due primarily to higher realized natural gas costs and higher costs related to plant turnaround, maintenance and repair activity due primarily to weather-related outages. In addition, we purchased $71 million of granular urea in 2021 to meet customer obligations.
Gross Margin.  Gross margin in our granular urea segment increased by $487 million to $888 million in 2021 from $401 million in 2020, and our gross margin percentage was 47.2% in 2021 compared to 32.1% in 2020. The increase in gross margin was driven by an 81% increase in average selling prices, which increased gross margin by approximately $814 million. The impact of higher average selling prices was partially offset by higher realized natural gas costs, which decreased gross margin by $144 million, a 17% decrease in sales volume, which decreased gross margin by $88 million, and an $84 million net increase in manufacturing, maintenance and other costs. In addition, we experienced lower production throughout 2021. As a result, in 2021, we purchased 201,000 tons of granular urea to meet customer obligations, which had the impact of reducing our gross margin percentage in our granular urea segment by 2.0 percentage points. Gross margin includes the impact of a $6 million unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives in 2021 compared to a $2 million gain in 2020.

46

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

UAN Segment
Our UAN segment produces urea ammonium nitrate solution (UAN). UAN, a liquid fertilizer product with a nitrogen content that typically ranges from 28% to 32%, is produced by combining urea and ammonium nitrate. UAN is produced at our nitrogen complexes in Courtright, Ontario; Donaldsonville, Louisiana; Port Neal, Iowa; Verdigris, Oklahoma; Woodward, Oklahoma; and Yazoo City, Mississippi.
The following table presents summary operating data for our UAN segment:

-------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------------ - ------------ ----- - --- --- ------ ---- --- - --- ----- ----- ---- ---- -
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019 2021 v. 2020 2020 v. 2019
 (in millions, except as noted)
Net sales $ 1,788 $ 1,063 $ 1,270 $ 725 68 % $ (207) (16) %
Cost of sales 1,119 949 981 170 18 % (32) (3) %
Gross margin $ 669 $ 114 $ 289 $ 555 N/M $ (175) (61) %
Gross margin percentage 37.4 % 10.7 % 22.8 % 26.7 % (12.1) %
Sales volume by product tons (000s) 6,584 6,843 6,807 (259) (4) % 36 1 %
Sales volume by nutrient tons (000s)(1) 2,075 2,155 2,144 (80) (4) % 11 1 %
Average selling price per product ton $ 272 $ 155 $ 187 $ 117 75 % $ (32) (17) %
Average selling price per nutrient ton(1) $ 862 $ 493 $ 592 $ 369 75 % $ (99) (17) %
Gross margin per product ton $ 102 $ 17 $ 42 $ 85 N/M $ (25) (60) %
Gross margin per nutrient ton(1) $ 322 $ 53 $ 135 $ 269 N/M $ (82) (61) %
Depreciation and amortization $ 259 $ 256 $ 251 $ 3 1 % $ 5 2 %
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives $ 5 $ (2) $ 4 $ 7 N/M $ (6) N/M

______________________________________________________________________________
N/M—Not Meaningful
(1)UAN represents between 28% and 32% of nitrogen content, depending on the concentration specified by the customer. Nutrient tons represent the tons of nitrogen within the product tons.
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net Sales. Net sales in our UAN segment increased $725 million, or 68%, to $1.79 billion in 2021 compared to $1.06 billion in 2020 due primarily to a 75% increase in average selling prices, partially offset by a 4% decrease in sales volume. Average selling prices increased to $272 per ton in 2021 compared to $155 per ton in 2020 due primarily to the impact of a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance. The decrease in sales volume was due to lower supply availability from reduced production during the first nine months of 2021 due to plant turnaround and maintenance activity and the impact of weather-related outages.
Cost of Sales. Cost of sales in our UAN segment averaged $170 per ton in 2021, a 23% increase from $138 per ton in 2020, due primarily to the impact of higher realized natural gas costs and higher costs related to plant turnaround, maintenance and repair activity.
Gross Margin.  Gross margin in our UAN segment increased by $555 million to $669 million in 2021 from $114 million in 2020, and our gross margin percentage was 37.4% in 2021 compared to 10.7% in 2020. The increase in gross margin was due to a 75% increase in average selling prices, which increased gross margin by $756 million. The impact of higher average selling prices was partially offset by higher realized natural gas costs, which decreased gross margin by $168 million, a $22 million net increase in manufacturing, maintenance and other costs, and a 4% decrease in sales volume, which decreased gross margin by $4 million. Gross margin includes the impact of a $5 million unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives in 2021 compared to a $2 million gain in 2020.

47

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Investigations
On June 30, 2021, we filed petitions with the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) requesting the initiation of antidumping and countervailing duty investigations on imports of UAN from Russia and Trinidad. On August 13, 2021, the ITC made an affirmative preliminary determination that there is a reasonable indication that the U.S. UAN industry is materially injured by reason of imports of UAN from Russia and Trinidad.
On November 30, 2021, Commerce announced preliminary countervailing duty determinations finding that UAN imports from Russia are unfairly subsidized at rates ranging from 9.66% to 9.84% and UAN imports from Trinidad are unfairly subsidized at a rate of 1.83%, and imposed preliminary cash deposit requirements on those imports.
On January 27, 2022, Commerce announced preliminary antidumping duty determinations finding that Russian UAN imports are dumped (i.e. sold at less than fair value) into the U.S. market at rates ranging from 9.15% to 127.19%, and that Trinidadian UAN imports are dumped at a rate of 63.08%, and imposed preliminary cash deposit requirements on those imports.
We expect that Commerce will issue final determinations later in 2022 and, if any of Commerce’s final determinations are affirmative, the ITC would make a final determination as to whether the unfairly traded imports materially injure or threaten material injury to the U.S. UAN industry. If the ITC makes affirmative final determinations, then Commerce can impose duties equal to the level of dumping and unfair subsidies it finds. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of the proceedings, including whether final antidumping or countervailing duties will be imposed on imports from either Russia or Trinidad, or the rate of any such duties.
AN Segment
Our AN segment produces ammonium nitrate (AN). AN, which has a nitrogen content between 29% and 35%, is produced by combining anhydrous ammonia and nitric acid. AN is used as nitrogen fertilizer and is also used by industrial customers for commercial explosives and blasting systems. AN is produced at our nitrogen complexes in Yazoo City, Mississippi and Ince and Billingham, United Kingdom.
The following table presents summary operating data for our AN segment:

------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ --- ---- ----- ---- --- ------------ - ------------ ----- - ---- ---- ----- --- ---- - --- --- ----- ----- ---- -
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019 2021 v. 2020 2020 v. 2019
 (in millions, except as noted)
Net sales $ 510 $ 455 $ 506 $ 55 12 % $ (51) (10) %
Cost of sales 475 390 399 85 22 % (9) (2) %
Gross margin $ 35 $ 65 $ 107 $ (30) (46) % $ (42) (39) %
Gross margin percentage 6.9 % 14.3 % 21.1 % (7.4) % (6.8) %
Sales volume by product tons (000s) 1,720 2,216 2,109 (496) (22) % 107 5 %
Sales volume by nutrient tons (000s)(1) 582 747 708 (165) (22) % 39 6 %
Average selling price per product ton $ 297 $ 205 $ 240 $ 92 45 % $ (35) (15) %
Average selling price per nutrient ton(1) $ 876 $ 609 $ 715 $ 267 44 % $ (106) (15) %
Gross margin per product ton $ 20 $ 29 $ 51 $ (9) (31) % $ (22) (43) %
Gross margin per nutrient ton(1) $ 60 $ 87 $ 151 $ (27) (31) % $ (64) (42) %
Depreciation and amortization $ 77 $ 100 $ 88 $ (23) (23) % $ 12 14 %
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives $ 4 $ — $ 1 $ 4 N/M $ (1) (100) %

_______________________________________________________________________________
N/M—Not Meaningful
(1)AN represents between 29% and 35% of nitrogen content. Nutrient tons represent the tons of nitrogen within the product tons.
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
On September 15, 2021, we announced the halt of operations at both our Ince and Billingham manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom due to negative profitability driven by the high cost of natural gas. Shortly thereafter, we restarted production at our Billingham facility; however, production continues to be idled at our Ince facility. See the discussion under “Market Conditions and Current Developments—United Kingdom Energy Crisis,” above, for further information.

48

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Net Sales. Net sales in our AN segment increased $55 million, or 12%, to $510 million in 2021 from $455 million in 2020 due primarily to a 45% increase in average selling prices, partially offset by a 22% decrease in sales volume. Average selling prices increased to $297 per ton in 2021 compared to $205 per ton in 2020 due primarily to the impact of a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance. Sales volume decreased due primarily to lower supply availability as a result of reduced production due to plant turnaround and maintenance activity and idled operations at our Ince facility.
Cost of Sales. Cost of sales in our AN segment averaged $277 per ton in 2021, a 57% increase from $176 per ton in 2020, due primarily to higher realized natural gas costs and higher costs related to plant turnaround and maintenance activity, including the impact of the idled Ince facility. Natural gas costs increased significantly in both the United States and the United Kingdom in 2021. See the discussion under “Market Conditions and Current Developments—Natural Gas Prices,” above, for further information.
Gross Margin.  Gross margin in our AN segment decreased by $30 million to $35 million in 2021 from $65 million in 2020, and our gross margin percentage was 6.9% in 2021 compared to 14.3% in 2020. The decrease in gross margin was due to an increase in realized natural gas costs, which decreased gross margin by $97 million, a net increase of $67 million in manufacturing, maintenance and other costs, and a 22% decrease in sales volume, which decreased gross margin by $21 million. These factors were partially offset by a 45% increase in average selling prices, which increased gross margin by $159 million. Gross margin also includes the impact of a $4 million unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives in 2021.
Other Segment
Our Other segment primarily includes the following products:
•Diesel exhaust fluid (DEF) is an aqueous urea solution typically made with 32.5% or 50% high-purity urea and the remainder deionized water.
•Urea liquor is a liquid product that we sell in concentrations of 40%, 50% and 70% urea as a chemical intermediate.
•Nitric acid is a nitrogen-based mineral acid that is used in the production of nitrate-based fertilizers, nylon precursors and other specialty chemicals.
•Compound fertilizer products (NPKs) are granular fertilizer products for which the nutrient content is a combination of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium.
The following table presents summary operating data for our Other segment:

------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------------ - ------------ ---- - -- --- ----- ---- --- - --- --- ---- ----- ---- -
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020 2019 2021 v. 2020 2020 v. 2019
 (in millions, except as noted)
Net sales $ 573 $ 338 $ 359 $ 235 70 % $ (21) (6) %
Cost of sales 403 287 297 116 40 % (10) (3) %
Gross margin $ 170 $ 51 $ 62 $ 119 233 % $ (11) (18) %
Gross margin percentage 29.7 % 15.1 % 17.3 % 14.6 % (2.2) %
Sales volume by product tons (000s) 2,318 2,322 2,257 (4) — % 65 3 %
Sales volume by nutrient tons (000s)(1) 458 457 444 1 — % 13 3 %
Average selling price per product ton $ 247 $ 146 $ 159 $ 101 69 % $ (13) (8) %
Average selling price per nutrient ton(1) $ 1,251 $ 740 $ 809 $ 511 69 % $ (69) (9) %
Gross margin per product ton $ 73 $ 22 $ 27 $ 51 232 % $ (5) (19) %
Gross margin per nutrient ton(1) $ 371 $ 112 $ 140 $ 259 231 % $ (28) (20) %
Depreciation and amortization $ 87 $ 68 $ 72 $ 19 28 % $ (4) (6) %
Unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives $ 3 $ — $ 1 $ 3 N/M $ (1) (100) %

_______________________________________________________________________________
N/M—Not Meaningful
(1)Nutrient tons represent the tons of nitrogen within the product tons.

49

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net Sales. Net sales in our Other segment increased $235 million, or 70%, to $573 million in 2021 from $338 million in 2020 due to a 69% increase in average selling prices. Average selling prices increased to $247 per ton in 2021 compared to $146 per ton in 2020, due primarily to the impact of a tighter global nitrogen supply and demand balance. Sales volume was essentially unchanged as higher DEF sales volumes were partially offset by lower NPK sales volumes, as a result of idled operations at our Ince facility, and lower urea liquor sales volumes.
Cost of Sales. Cost of sales in our Other segment averaged $174 per ton in 2021, a 40% increase from $124 per ton in 2020, due primarily to higher realized natural gas costs and higher costs related to plant turnaround and maintenance activity, including the impact of the idled Ince facility.
Gross Margin.  Gross margin in our Other segment increased by $119 million to $170 million in 2021 from $51 million in 2020, and our gross margin percentage was 29.7% in 2021 compared to 15.1% in 2020. The increase in gross margin was due to a 69% increase in average selling prices, which increased gross margin by $236 million, and an increase of $13 million due to product mix. These factors were partially offset by a $67 million net increase in manufacturing, maintenance and other costs and an increase in realized natural gas costs, which reduced gross margin by $60 million. Gross margin also includes the impact of a $3 million unrealized net mark-to-market loss on natural gas derivatives in 2021.

50

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary uses of cash are generally for operating costs, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, investments, taxes, share repurchases and dividends. Our working capital requirements are affected by several factors, including demand for our products, selling prices, raw material costs, freight costs and seasonal factors inherent in the business. In addition, we may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, in open market or privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material.
Generally, our primary source of cash is cash from operations, which includes cash generated by customer advances. We may also from time to time access the capital markets or engage in borrowings under our revolving credit agreement.
On March 20, 2021, we redeemed in full all of the remaining $250 million outstanding principal amount of the 2021 Notes, in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2021 Notes. On September 10, 2021, we redeemed $250 million principal amount, representing one-third of the $750 million principal amount outstanding immediately prior to such redemption, of the 2023 Notes, in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. See the discussion under “Debt,” below, for further information.
In 2021, we repurchased approximately 8.6 million shares of CF Holdings common stock under the 2019 share repurchase program for $540 million. See the discussion under “Share Repurchase Programs,” below, for further information.

Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $1.63 billion at December 31, 2021, an increase of $945 million from $683 million at December 31, 2020. At December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all applicable covenant requirements under our revolving credit agreement and senior notes, and unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement was $750 million.
United Kingdom Energy Crisis
As discussed under “Market Conditions and Current Developments—United Kingdom Energy Crisis,” above, during the third quarter of 2021, the United Kingdom began experiencing an energy crisis that included a substantial increase in the price of natural gas, which impacted our U.K. operations. Management continues to assess these volatile market conditions in the United Kingdom. The factors that could lead to the resolution of the U.K. energy crisis, and the timing of any such resolution, are unknown to us. Production continues to be idled at our Ince facility, while the Billingham facility is currently operating. There remains significant uncertainty regarding future plans for these sites pending greater clarity as to the future cost of natural gas and electricity, selling prices for the products we produce in the United Kingdom and U.K. government policy. Persistence of the current levels of energy costs and product prices facing our U.K. operations could lead to the continued idling or shutting down of our U.K. facilities. This could result in, among other things, additional funding to support the cash needs of the U.K. operations and recognition of further losses or further asset impairment charges related to our U.K. operations. Each of these actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.
Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash with original maturities of three months or less. Under our short-term investment policy, we may invest our cash balances, either directly or through mutual funds, in several types of investment-grade securities, including notes and bonds issued by governmental entities or corporations. Securities issued by governmental entities include those issued directly by the U.S. and Canadian federal governments; those issued by state, local or other governmental entities; and those guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities.
Share Repurchase Programs
On February 13, 2019, our Board of Directors (the Board) authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of CF Holdings common stock through December 31, 2021 (the 2019 Share Repurchase Program). Repurchases under our share repurchase programs may be made from time to time in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions, block transactions or otherwise. The manner, timing and amount of repurchases will be determined by our management based on the evaluation of market conditions, stock price, and other factors.

51

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

The following table summarizes the shares repurchased under the 2019 Share Repurchase Program.

---------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------- --- ---

 Shares Amounts
 (in millions)
Shares repurchased in 2019 7.6 $ 337
Shares repurchased in 2020 2.6 100
Shares repurchased in 2021 8.6 540
Total shares repurchased under the 2019 Share Repurchase Program 18.8 $ 977

Shares repurchased, including those repurchased under share repurchase programs, are retired as approved by the Board. As of December 31, 2021, we held 27,962 shares of treasury stock.
On November 3, 2021, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of CF Holdings common stock from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024 (the 2021 Share Repurchase Program).
Capital Spending
We make capital expenditures to sustain our asset base, increase our capacity or capabilities, improve plant efficiency and comply with various environmental, health and safety requirements. Capital expenditures totaled $514 million in 2021 compared to $309 million in 2020. The increase in capital expenditures reflects higher capital spending due to maintenance deferred from 2020 as well as activity that was previously planned to occur in 2022, but accelerated into 2021.
Capital expenditures in 2022 are estimated to be in the range of $500 to $550 million, which includes capital expenditures at our Donaldsonville complex related to green and blue ammonia projects. Planned capital expenditures are generally subject to change due to delays in regulatory approvals or permitting, unanticipated increases in cost, changes in scope and completion time, performance of third parties, delays in the receipt of equipment, adverse weather, defects in materials and workmanship, labor or material shortages, transportation constraints, acceleration or delays in the timing of the work and other unforeseen difficulties.
Government Policies
The policies or laws of governments around the world can result in the imposition of taxes, duties, tariffs or other restrictions or regulatory requirements on imports and exports of raw materials, finished goods or services from a particular country or region of the world. The policies and laws of governments can also impact the subsidization of natural gas prices, and subsidies or quotas applied to domestic producers or farmers. Due to the critical role that fertilizers play in food production, the construction and operation of fertilizer plants often are influenced by economic, political and social objectives. Additionally, the import or export of fertilizer can be subject to local taxes imposed by governments which can have the effect of either encouraging or discouraging import and export activity. The impact of changes in governmental policies or laws or the political or social objectives of a country could have a material impact on fertilizer demand and selling prices and therefore could impact our liquidity.
Emission Credit Activity
Our U.K. manufacturing plants are subject to greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations in the United Kingdom. After the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union, the U.K. government instituted new GHG regulations in 2021, including establishing the U.K. Emission Trading Scheme (UK ETS). The UK ETS replaces the European Union Emissions Trading System for U.K. companies. In conjunction with these changes, the U.K. GHG regulations established a lower emission cap than applied to us under the European GHG regulations. Under the new U.K. requirements, we are required to obtain and surrender emission allowances equivalent to our annual greenhouse gas emissions, although we are also allocated a certain number of free allowances. As a result of the new GHG regulations and the establishment of the UK ETS, our remaining European Union emission credits were no longer applicable for us in the United Kingdom, and we need U.K. emission credits to offset any emissions that are in excess of the number of free allowances allocated to us. Accordingly, in the third quarter of 2021, we sold our remaining EU emission credits for approximately $20 million and recognized a corresponding gain, as the credits were earned by us in prior years due to approved emission abatement actions that we had taken and, therefore, did not have a recognized cost associated with them. We subsequently purchased approximately 321,000 of U.K. emission credits for approximately $19 million. During the fourth quarter of 2021, as we have estimated that we have sufficient emission credits for our 2021 obligations, we sold the excess U.K. emission credits, including those purchased in the third quarter of 2021, for approximately $46 million, and recognized a corresponding gain of $27 million.

52

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Canada Revenue Agency Competent Authority Matter
In 2016, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) and Alberta Tax and Revenue Administration (Alberta TRA) issued Notices of Reassessment for tax years 2006 through 2009 to one of our Canadian affiliates asserting a disallowance of certain patronage allocations. We filed Notices of Objection with respect to the Notices of Reassessment with the CRA and Alberta TRA and posted letters of credit in lieu of paying the additional tax liability assessed. The letters of credit serve as security until the matter is resolved. In 2018, the matter, including the related transfer pricing topic, was accepted for consideration under the bilateral settlement provisions of the U.S.-Canada tax treaty (the Treaty) by the United States and Canadian competent authorities, and included tax years 2006 through 2011. In the second quarter of 2021, the Company entered the transfer pricing aspect of the matter into the arbitration process under the terms of the Treaty.
In February 2022, we were informed that a decision was reached by the arbitration board regarding the transfer pricing matter with the CRA for tax years 2006 through 2011, as discussed in Note 11—Income Taxes. We are awaiting further details of the results of the arbitration proceedings and the settlement provisions between the United States and Canadian competent authorities. We need to decide whether to accept the decision of the arbitration board or pursue other resolution alternatives, which is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2022.
If we were to accept the decision of the arbitration board, the associated letters of credit would be cancelled and we would owe additional tax and interest to Canada, which would likely be due in the second quarter of 2022. Simultaneously, pursuant to the arbitration determination, the Company would file amended tax returns for the relevant tax years with the United States to request a refund of tax overpaid. The receipt of tax overpaid and any related interest would occur in a period later than the settlement of tax and interest owed. While we are not currently able to estimate the amounts due to, or to be received from, the taxing jurisdictions, each of the individual amounts that would ultimately be paid or received could be material.
Terra Amended Tax Returns
In 2020, we received U.S. federal income tax refunds, including interest, of $110 million relating to amended tax returns that we had filed in 2012 related to prior tax years. See discussion under “Items Affecting Comparability of Results—Terra Amended Tax Returns,” above, for further information.
In 2017, we made a Voluntary Disclosures Program filing with the CRA with respect to the Canadian tax aspects of the amended U.S. tax returns and paid additional Canadian taxes due. In late 2020, the CRA settled with us the voluntary disclosure matter, and, in the first quarter of 2021, we received approximately $20 million of withholding tax refunds, including interest, from the CRA. These amounts were previously recorded in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020.
Repatriation of Foreign Earnings and Income Taxes
We have operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and a 50% interest in a joint venture in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Historically, the estimated additional U.S. and foreign income taxes due upon repatriation of the earnings of these foreign operations to the U.S. were recognized in our consolidated financial statements as the earnings were recognized, unless the earnings were considered to be permanently reinvested based upon our then current plans. However, the cash payment of the income tax liabilities associated with repatriation of earnings from foreign operations occurred at the time of the repatriation. As a result, the recognition of income tax expense related to foreign earnings, as applicable, and the payment of taxes resulting from repatriation of those earnings could occur in different periods.
In light of changes made by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, commencing with the 2018 tax year, the United States no longer taxes earnings of foreign subsidiaries even when such earnings are earned or repatriated to the United States, unless such earnings are subject to U.S. rules on passive income or certain anti-abuse provisions. Foreign subsidiary earnings may still be subject to withholding taxes when repatriated to the United States.
Cash balances held by our joint venture are maintained at sufficient levels to fund local operations as accumulated earnings are repatriated from the joint venture on a periodic basis.
As of December 31, 2021, approximately $205 million of our consolidated cash and cash equivalents balance of $1.63 billion was held by our Canadian and United Kingdom subsidiaries. Historically, and for the current year, the cash balance held by the Canadian subsidiaries represented accumulated earnings of our foreign operations that were not considered to be permanently reinvested. As of December 31, 2021, we would not expect any additional cash tax cost to repatriate the Canadian and United Kingdom cash balances if we were to repatriate this cash in the future, other than foreign withholding tax.

53

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Debt
Revolving Credit Agreement
We have a senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Agreement), which provides for a revolving credit facility of up to $750 million with a maturity of December 5, 2024. The Revolving Credit Agreement includes a letter of credit sub-limit of $125 million. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and other general corporate purposes.
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement may be denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, euros and British pounds, and bear interest at a per annum rate equal to an applicable eurocurrency rate or base rate plus, in either case, a specified margin. We are required to pay an undrawn commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Agreement and customary letter of credit fees. The specified margin and the amount of the commitment fee depend on CF Holdings’ credit rating at the time.
CF Industries is the lead borrower, and CF Holdings is the sole guarantor, under the Revolving Credit Agreement.
The Revolving Credit Agreement contains representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants customary for a financing of this type. The financial covenants applicable to CF Holdings and its subsidiaries in the Revolving Credit Agreement:
(i) require that the interest coverage ratio (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) be not less than 2.75:1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter and
(ii) require that the total net leverage ratio (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) be not greater than 3.75:1.00 (the Maximum Total Net Leverage Ratio) as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, provided that, if any borrower or subsidiary consummates a material acquisition during any fiscal quarter, CF Industries may elect to increase the Maximum Total Net Leverage Ratio to 4.25:1.00 for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters commencing with such fiscal quarter (and no further such election may be made unless and until the Maximum Total Net Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 3.75:1.00 as of the end of two consecutive fiscal quarters after the end of such period).
As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement.
The Revolving Credit Agreement contains events of default (with notice requirements and cure periods, as applicable) customary for a financing of this type, including, but not limited to, non-payment of principal, interest or fees; inaccuracy of representations and warranties in any material respect; and failure to comply with specified covenants. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the Revolving Credit Agreement and after any applicable cure period, subject to specified exceptions, the administrative agent may, and at the request of the requisite lenders is required to, accelerate the loans under the Revolving Credit Agreement or terminate the lenders’ commitments under the Revolving Credit Agreement.
As of December 31, 2021, we had unused borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $750 million and no outstanding letters of credit. In addition, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2021 or 2020, or during the year ended December 31, 2021.
In March 2020, we borrowed $500 million under the Revolving Credit Agreement to ensure we maintained ample financial flexibility in light of the uncertainty in the global markets, including the financial credit markets, caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2020, due to confidence in the functioning of the credit markets and strong nitrogen fertilizer business conditions, we repaid the $500 million of borrowings that were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2020, which returned our unused borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Agreement to $750 million. Maximum borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement during 2020 were $500 million. The weighted-average annual interest rate of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement during 2020 was 2.05%.
Letters of Credit
In addition to the letters of credit that may be issued under the Revolving Credit Agreement, as described above, we have also entered into a bilateral agreement with capacity to issue letters of credit up to $250 million. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $223 million of letters of credit were outstanding under this agreement.

54

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Senior Notes
Long-term debt presented on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following debt securities issued by CF Industries:

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- --------------------- ----------------- ------------------- ----------------- --------------------- - ------------------- --- - ----- - -----
 Effective Interest Rate December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
 Principal Outstanding Carrying Amount (1) Principal Outstanding Carrying Amount (1)
 (in millions)
Public Senior Notes:

3.450% due June 2023 3.562% $ 500 $ 499 $ 750 $ 748
5.150% due March 2034 5.279% 750 741 750 741
4.950% due June 2043 5.031% 750 742 750 742
5.375% due March 2044 5.465% 750 741 750 741
Senior Secured Notes:
3.400% due December 2021 3.782% — — 250 249
4.500% due December 2026(2) 4.759% 750 742 750 740
Total long-term debt $ 3,500 $ 3,465 $ 4,000 $ 3,961
Less: Current maturities of long-term debt — — 250 249
Long-term debt, net of current maturities $ 3,500 $ 3,465 $ 3,750 $ 3,712

_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)Carrying amount is net of unamortized debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs. Total unamortized debt discount was $8 million and $9 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and total deferred debt issuance costs were $27 million and $30 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
(2)Effective August 23, 2021, these notes are no longer secured, in accordance with the terms of the applicable indenture.
Public Senior Notes
Under the indentures (including the applicable supplemental indentures) governing our senior notes due 2023, 2034, 2043 and 2044 identified in the table above (the Public Senior Notes), each series of Public Senior Notes is guaranteed by CF Holdings. Interest on the Public Senior Notes is payable semiannually, and the Public Senior Notes are redeemable at our option, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at specified make-whole redemption prices.
On September 10, 2021, we redeemed $250 million principal amount, representing one-third of the $750 million principal amount outstanding immediately prior to such redemption, of the 2023 Notes, in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. The total aggregate redemption price paid in connection with the redemption of the 2023 Notes, which was funded with cash on hand, was approximately $265 million, including accrued interest. As a result, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $13 million in the third quarter of 2021, consisting primarily of the premium paid on the redemption of the $250 million principal amount of the 2023 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity.
The indentures governing the Public Senior Notes contain covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of CF Holdings and its subsidiaries, including CF Industries, to incur liens on certain assets to secure debt, to engage in sale and leaseback transactions, to merge or consolidate with other entities and to sell, lease or transfer all or substantially all of the assets of CF Holdings and its subsidiaries to another entity. Each of the indentures governing the Public Senior Notes provides for customary events of default, which include (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest on the applicable Public Senior Notes; failure to comply with other covenants or agreements under the indenture; certain defaults on other indebtedness; the failure of CF Holdings’ guarantee of the applicable Public Senior Notes to be enforceable; and specified events of bankruptcy or insolvency. Under each indenture governing the Public Senior Notes, in the case of an event of default arising from one of the specified events of bankruptcy or insolvency, the applicable Public Senior Notes would become due and payable immediately, and, in the case of any other event of default (other than an event of default related to CF Industries’ and CF Holdings’ reporting obligations), the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the applicable Public Senior Notes then outstanding may declare all of such Public Senior Notes to be due and payable immediately.
Under each of the indentures governing the Public Senior Notes, specified changes of control involving CF Holdings or CF Industries, when accompanied by a ratings downgrade, as defined with respect to the applicable series of Public Senior

55

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Notes, constitute change of control repurchase events. Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event with respect to a series of Public Senior Notes, unless CF Industries has exercised its option to redeem such Public Senior Notes, CF Industries will be required to offer to repurchase them at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
Senior Secured Notes
On March 20, 2021, we redeemed in full all of the remaining $250 million outstanding principal amount of the 2021 Notes in accordance with the optional redemption provisions in the indenture governing the 2021 Notes. The total aggregate redemption price paid in connection with the redemption of the 2021 Notes was $258 million, including accrued interest. As a result, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $6 million in the first quarter of 2021, consisting primarily of the premium paid on the redemption of the 2021 Notes prior to their scheduled maturity.
Under the terms of the indenture governing the 4.500% senior secured notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes), the 2026 Notes are guaranteed by CF Holdings. Until August 23, 2021, the 2026 Notes were guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of CF Industries. The requirement for subsidiary guarantees of the 2026 Notes was eliminated, and all subsidiary guarantees were automatically released, as a result of an investment grade rating event under the terms of the indenture governing the 2026 Notes on August 23, 2021. Prior to the investment grade rating event, subject to certain exceptions, the obligations under the 2026 Notes and related guarantees were secured by a first priority security interest in collateral consisting of substantially all of the assets of CF Industries, CF Holdings and the subsidiary guarantors. As a result of the investment grade rating event, the liens on the collateral securing the obligations under the 2026 Notes and related guarantees were automatically released on August 23, 2021, and the indenture covenant that had limited dispositions of assets constituting collateral no longer applies.
Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable semiannually, and the 2026 Notes are redeemable at our option, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at specified make-whole redemption prices.
Under the indenture governing the 2026 Notes, specified changes of control involving CF Holdings or CF Industries, when accompanied by a ratings downgrade, as defined with respect to the 2026 Notes, constitute change of control repurchase events. Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event with respect to the 2026 Notes, unless CF Industries has exercised its option to redeem such notes, CF Industries will be required to offer to repurchase them at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
The indentures governing the 2026 Notes contain covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of CF Holdings and its subsidiaries, including CF Industries, to incur liens on certain assets to secure debt, to engage in sale and leaseback transactions, to merge or consolidate with other entities and to sell, lease or transfer all or substantially all of the assets of CF Holdings and its subsidiaries to another entity. The indenture governing the 2026 Notes provides for customary events of default, which include (subject in certain cases to customary grace and cure periods), among others, nonpayment of principal or interest of the 2026 Notes; failure to comply with other covenants or agreements under the indenture; certain defaults on other indebtedness; the failure of CF Holdings’ guarantee of the 2026 Notes to be enforceable; and specified events of bankruptcy or insolvency. Under the indenture governing the 2026 Notes, in the case of an event of default arising from one of the specified events of bankruptcy or insolvency, the 2026 Notes would become due and payable immediately, and, in the case of any other event of default (other than an event of default related to CF Industries’ and CF Holdings’ reporting obligations), the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes then outstanding may declare all of such notes to be due and payable immediately.
Forward Sales and Customer Advances
We offer our customers the opportunity to purchase products from us on a forward basis at prices and on delivery dates we propose. Therefore, our reported nitrogen fertilizer selling prices and margins may differ from market spot prices and margins available at the time of shipment.
Customer advances, which typically represent a portion of the contract’s value, are received shortly after the contract is executed, with any remaining unpaid amount generally being collected by the time control transfers to the customer, thereby reducing or eliminating the accounts receivable related to such sales. Any cash payments received in advance from customers in connection with forward sales contracts are reflected on our consolidated balance sheets as a current liability until control transfers and revenue is recognized. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had $700 million and $130 million, respectively, in customer advances on our consolidated balance sheets.
While customer advances are generally a significant source of liquidity, the level of forward sales contracts is affected by many factors including current market conditions and our customers’ outlook of future market fundamentals. During periods of declining prices, customers tend to delay purchasing fertilizer in anticipation that prices in the future will be lower than the

56

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

current prices. If the level of sales under our forward sales programs were to decrease in the future, our cash received from customer advances would likely decrease and our accounts receivable balances would likely increase. Additionally, borrowing under the Revolving Credit Agreement could become necessary. Due to the volatility inherent in our business and changing customer expectations, we cannot estimate the amount of future forward sales activity.
Under our forward sales programs, a customer may delay delivery of an order due to weather conditions or other factors. These delays generally subject the customer to potential charges for storage or may be grounds for termination of the contract by us. Such a delay in scheduled shipment or termination of a forward sales contract due to a customer’s inability or unwillingness to perform may negatively impact our reported sales.
Natural Gas
Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen products. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as a fuel to produce ammonia, granular urea, UAN, AN and other products. Expenditures on natural gas are a significant portion of our production costs, representing approximately 40% of our total production costs in 2021. As a result of these factors, natural gas prices have a significant impact on our operating expenses and can thus affect our liquidity.
We enter into agreements for a portion of our future natural gas supply and related transportation. As of December 31, 2021, our natural gas purchase agreements have terms that range from one to two years and a total minimum commitment of approximately $780 million, and our natural gas transportation agreements have terms that range from one to ten years and a total minimum commitment of approximately $165 million. Our minimum commitments to purchase and transport natural gas are based on prevailing market-based forward prices excluding reductions for plant maintenance and turnaround activities.
Because most of our nitrogen manufacturing facilities are located in the United States and Canada, the price of natural gas in North America directly impacts a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Due to increases in natural gas production resulting from the rise in production from shale gas formations, natural gas prices in North America have declined in the last decade, but are subject to volatility. During 2021, the daily closing price at the Henry Hub, the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing point in North America, reached a low of $2.36 per MMBtu on April 7, 2021 and a high of $23.61 per MMBtu on February 18, 2021. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, the daily closing price at the Henry Hub reached a low of $1.34 per MMBtu on September 22, 2020 and three consecutive days in October 2020 and a high of $23.61 per MMBtu on February 18, 2021.
We also have manufacturing facilities located in the United Kingdom. These facilities are subject to fluctuations associated with the price of natural gas in Europe. The major natural gas trading point for the United Kingdom is the National Balancing Point (NBP). During 2021, the daily closing price at NBP reached a low of $5.58 per MMBtu on February 23, 2021 and a high of $60.10 per MMBtu on December 22, 2021. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, the daily closing price at NBP reached a low of $1.04 per MMBtu on May 22, 2020, and a high of $60.10 per MMBtu on December 22, 2021.
Natural gas costs in our cost of sales, including the impact of realized natural gas derivatives, increased 88% to $4.21 per MMBtu in 2021 from $2.24 per MMBtu in 2020.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to changes in prices for natural gas that will be purchased in the future. Natural gas is the largest and most volatile component of our manufacturing cost for our nitrogen-based products. From time to time, we may also use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Volatility in reported quarterly earnings can result from the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments in the value of the derivatives. In 2021 and 2020, we recognized an unrealized net mark-to-market loss (gain) on natural gas derivatives of $25 million and $(6) million, respectively, which is reflected in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of operations.
Derivatives expose us to counterparties and the risks associated with their ability to meet the terms of the contracts. For derivatives that are in net asset positions, we are exposed to credit loss from nonperformance by the counterparties. We control our credit risk through the use of multiple counterparties that are multinational commercial banks, other major financial institutions or large energy companies, and the use of International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting arrangements. The ISDA agreements are master netting arrangements commonly used for over-the-counter derivatives that mitigate exposure to counterparty credit risk, in part, by creating contractual rights of netting and setoff, the specifics of which vary from agreement to agreement.
The ISDA agreements for most of our derivative instruments contain credit-risk-related contingent features, such as cross default provisions. In the event of certain defaults or termination events, our counterparties may request early termination and

57

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

net settlement of certain derivative trades or may require us to collateralize derivatives in a net liability position. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the aggregate fair value of the derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features in net liability positions was $31 million and $6 million, respectively, which also approximates the fair value of the assets that may be needed to settle the obligations if the credit-risk-related contingent features were triggered at the reporting dates.
As of December 31, 2021, our open natural gas derivative contracts consisted of natural gas fixed price swaps, basis swaps and options for 60.0 million MMBtus. As of December 31, 2020, we had open natural gas derivative contracts consisting of natural gas fixed price swaps and basis swaps for 34.1 million MMBtus. At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had no cash collateral on deposit with counterparties for derivative contracts. The credit support documents executed in connection with certain of our ISDA agreements generally provide us and our counterparties the right to set off collateral against amounts owing under the ISDA agreements upon the occurrence of a default or a specified termination event.
Embedded Derivative Liability
Under the terms of our strategic venture with CHS, if our credit rating as determined by two of three specified credit rating agencies is below certain levels, we are required to make a non-refundable yearly payment of $5 million to CHS. Since 2016, our credit ratings have been below certain levels and, as a result, we made an annual payment of $5 million to CHS in the fourth quarter of each year. These payments will continue on a yearly basis until the earlier of the date that our credit rating is upgraded to or above certain levels by two of three specified credit rating agencies or February 1, 2026. This obligation is recognized on our consolidated balance sheets as an embedded derivative. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the embedded derivative liability was $15 million and $18 million, respectively. See Note 10—Fair Value Measurements for additional information.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
We contributed $40 million to our pension plans in 2021. In 2022, we expect to contribute approximately $29 million to our pension plans. In addition, we expect to contribute a total of approximately $68 million to our U.K. plans in the three-year period from 2023 to 2025, as agreed with the plans’ trustees.
Distributions on Noncontrolling Interest in CFN
The CFN Board of Managers approved semi-annual distribution payments for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, in accordance with CFN’s limited liability company agreement, as follows:

--------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------------------------- ---
Approved and paid Distribution Period Distribution Amount (in millions)
First quarter of 2022 Six months ended December 31, 2021 $ 247
Third quarter of 2021 Six months ended June 30, 2021 130
First quarter of 2021 Six months ended December 31, 2020 64
Third quarter of 2020 Six months ended June 30, 2020 86
First quarter of 2020 Six months ended December 31, 2019 88
Third quarter of 2019 Six months ended June 30, 2019 100

Cash Flows
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2021 was $2.87 billion as compared to $1.23 billion in 2020, an increase of $1.64 billion. The increase in cash flow from operations was due primarily to higher net earnings and favorable changes in net working capital. Net earnings in 2021 was $1.26 billion compared to $432 million in 2020. The increase in net earnings was due primarily to higher average selling prices and a $112 million gain on the net settlement of certain natural gas contracts with our suppliers in February 2021, partially offset by higher costs related to manufacturing, maintenance and repair activity. During 2021, net changes in working capital increased cash flow from operations by $448 million, while in 2020 net changes in working capital contributed $12 million to cash flow from operations. The increased cash flow from working capital changes was primarily driven by an increase in customer advances and accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by changes in accounts receivable and inventory.

58

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $466 million in 2021 compared to $299 million in 2020, or an increase of $167 million. This increase was due primarily to higher capital expenditures. During 2021, capital expenditures totaled $514 million compared to $309 million in 2020.
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $1.46 billion in 2021 compared to $542 million in 2020. In 2021, we paid $518 million in connection with the redemption of the 2021 Notes and the partial redemption of the 2023 Notes. In 2021, we repurchased shares of common stock for $540 million, of which $1 million was accrued and unpaid as of December 31, 2021, compared to share repurchases of $100 million in 2020. Dividends paid on common stock in 2021 and 2020 were $260 million and $258 million, respectively. Distributions to noncontrolling interest totaled $194 million in 2021 as compared to $174 million in 2020.

Critical Accounting Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. U.S. GAAP requires that we select policies and make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience, technological assessment, opinions of appropriate outside experts, and the most recent information available to us. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Changes in estimates that may have a material impact on our results are discussed in the context of the underlying financial statements to which they relate. The following discussion presents information about our most critical accounting estimates.
 Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliate
We review the carrying values of our property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets, including our finite-lived intangible assets, goodwill and our investment in an unconsolidated affiliate in accordance with U.S. GAAP in order to assess recoverability. Factors that we must estimate when performing impairment tests include production and sales volumes, selling prices, raw material costs, operating rates, operating expenses, inflation, discount rates, exchange rates, tax rates and capital spending. Judgment is involved in estimating each of these factors, which include inherent uncertainties. The factors we use are consistent with those used in our internal planning process. The recoverability of the values associated with our goodwill, long-lived assets and our investment in an unconsolidated affiliate is dependent upon future operating performance of the specific businesses to which they are attributed. Certain of the operating assumptions are particularly sensitive to the cyclical nature of the fertilizer business. Adverse changes in demand for our products, increases in supply and the availability and costs of key raw materials could significantly affect the results of our review.
The recoverability and impairment tests of long-lived assets are required only when conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. For goodwill, impairment tests are required at least annually, or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our investment in an unconsolidated affiliate is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. When circumstances indicate that the fair value of our investment is less than its carrying value, and the reduction in value is other than temporary, the reduction in value would be recognized immediately in earnings.
We evaluate goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter at the reporting unit level. Our evaluation can begin with a qualitative assessment of the factors that could impact the significant inputs used to estimate fair value. If after performing the qualitative assessment, we determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, then no further analysis is necessary. However, if it is unclear based on the results of the qualitative test, we perform a quantitative test, which involves comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. We use an income-based valuation method, determining the present value of future cash flows, to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, goodwill impairment would be recognized equal to the amount of the carrying value in excess of the reporting unit’s fair value, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. We identified no goodwill impairment in 2020 or 2019.

59

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

During the third quarter of 2021, in light of the unprecedented increase in natural gas prices in the United Kingdom and its estimated impact on our U.K. operations, we identified a triggering event indicating possible impairment of goodwill within our U.K. Ammonia, U.K. AN and U.K. Other reporting units. Due to the triggering event, we performed an interim quantitative goodwill impairment analysis as of September 30, 2021 for our U.K. Ammonia, U.K. AN and U.K. Other reporting units. We estimated the fair value of the reporting units using the income approach described in Note 6—United Kingdom Energy Crisis and Impairment Charges. Based on the evaluation performed, we determined that the carrying value of all three reporting units exceeded their fair value, which resulted in a goodwill impairment charge totaling $259 million in the third quarter of 2021. The goodwill impairment was calculated as the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit, including any goodwill, exceeded its fair value. The continued impacts of the U.K. energy crisis in the fourth quarter of 2021 triggered an additional impairment test, and we recognized an additional goodwill impairment charge of $26 million. In 2021, we recognized total goodwill impairment charges of $285 million. As of December 31, 2021, after the recognition of the $285 million of goodwill impairment charges noted above, we have no remaining goodwill related to our U.K. operations. As of December 31, 2021, the carrying value of our goodwill was $2.09 billion. Our annual evaluation of impairment in the fourth quarter of 2021 included a qualitative assessment for our North America reporting units, where the remaining goodwill is allocated, and resulted in no indication of impairment.
As a result of the triggering event described above, we also performed a recoverability test on our long-lived assets within the U.K. Ammonia, U.K. AN and U.K. Other asset groups, including our definite-lived intangible assets, as of September 30, 2021. The recoverability test was based on forecasts of undiscounted cash flows, as described in Note 6—United Kingdom Energy Crisis and Impairment Charges. The results of the recoverability test indicated that the long-lived assets within our U.K. Ammonia, U.K. AN and U.K. Other asset groups were not fully recoverable, and, as a result, long-lived asset impairment charges, inclusive of the definite-lived intangible assets, of $236 million were recorded. That impairment was allocated to each of the underlying assets, of which $50 million was allocated to definite-lived intangible assets. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the carrying value of our intangible assets was $45 million and $104 million, respectively.
As discussed above, the results of our fourth quarter 2021 long-lived asset impairment test indicated that no additional long-lived asset impairment should be recorded as the undiscounted cash flows were in excess of the carrying values for each of the U.K. asset groups. Of the factors discussed above, the assumptions for product selling prices and natural gas costs included in the expected cash flows utilized in the long-lived asset impairment test were more sensitive than others. Assuming that all other assumptions utilized in our expected cash flows and the other inputs used in our long-lived asset test remained unchanged, a decrease of $5.00 per product ton in the average selling price or an increase of $0.50 per MMBtu in the cost of natural gas would have resulted in long-lived asset impairment for certain of the U.K. asset groups as the undiscounted cash flows would have been lower than their carrying values, and the resulting long-lived asset impairment charges for the fourth quarter of 2021 would have been as follows:

------------------------------------- --------------------------- -- ------ - --
 Increase in
 Long-lived Asset Impairment
Assumption (in millions)

 +$5.00 -$5.00

Average Selling Price per Product Ton $ — $ 10

 +$0.50 -$0.50

Natural Gas Cost per MMBtu(1) $ 13 $ —

_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)The sensitivity impact of a $0.50/MMBtu increase or decrease in the cost of natural gas includes any corresponding impact to selling prices from contractually stipulated sales provisions.
See “Items Affecting Comparability of Results—U.K. energy crisis impacts,” “Liquidity and Capital Resources—United Kingdom Energy Crisis,” above, Note 6—United Kingdom Energy Crisis and Impairment Charges, Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment—Net and Note 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further information.
PLNL is our joint venture investment in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and operates an ammonia plant that relies on natural gas supplied, under a Gas Sales Contract (the NGC Contract), by the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited (NGC). The joint venture is accounted for under the equity method. The joint venture experienced past curtailments in the supply of natural gas from NGC, which reduced the ammonia production at PLNL. The NGC Contract had an initial expiration date of September 2018 and was extended on the same terms until September 2023. Any NGC commitment to supply gas beyond 2023 will be based on new agreements. If NGC does not make sufficient quantities of natural gas available to PLNL at prices that permit profitable operations, PLNL may cease operating its facility and we would write off the remaining investment in PLNL. The carrying value of our equity method investment in PLNL at December 31, 2021 is $82 million.

60

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

Projected Benefit Obligations
The projected benefit obligations (PBOs) for our defined benefit pension plans are affected by plan design, actuarial estimates and discount rates. Key assumptions that affect our PBO are discount rates and, in addition for our United Kingdom plans, inflation rates, including an adjusted U.K. retail price index (RPI).
The December 31, 2021 PBO was computed based on a weighted-average discount rate of 2.8% for our North America plans and 2.0% for our United Kingdom plans, which were based on yields for high-quality (AA rated or better) fixed income debt securities that match the timing and amounts of expected benefit payments as of the measurement date of December 31, 2021. Declines in comparable bond yields would increase our PBO. For our United Kingdom plans, the 3.3% RPI used to calculate our PBO is developed using the Bank of England implied retail price inflation curve, which is based on the difference between yields on fixed interest government bonds and index-linked government bonds.
For North America qualified pension plans, our PBO was $841 million as of December 31, 2021, which was $11 million higher than pension plan assets. For our United Kingdom pension plans, our PBO was $590 million as of December 31, 2021, which was $85 million higher than pension plan assets. The tables below estimate the impact of a 50 basis point increase or decrease in the key assumptions on our December 31, 2021 PBO:

------------- -------------------------------------------- ---- -------------------- ------- -- ------- ---- - ---- - --
 Increase/(Decrease) in December 31, 2021 PBO
 North America Plans United Kingdom Plans
Assumption +50 bps -50 bps +50 bps -50 bps
 (in millions)
Discount Rate $ (48) $ 53 $ (43) $ 49

RPI N/A N/A 26 (26)

See Note 12—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits for further discussion of our pension plans.
Income Taxes
We are subject to the income tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate, and we recognize expense, assets and liabilities based on estimates of amounts that ultimately will be determined to be taxable or deductible in tax returns filed in various jurisdictions. These tax laws are complex, and how they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation. Differences in interpretation of the tax laws and regulations, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from federal, state and international tax audits, can result in differences in taxes paid, which may be higher or lower than our estimates. The judgments made at a point in time may change from previous conclusions based on the outcome of tax audits, as well as changes to, or further interpretations of, tax laws and regulations, and these changes could significantly impact the provision for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable and the deferred tax asset and liability balances. We adjust our income tax provision in the period in which these changes occur.
We also engage in a significant amount of cross border transactions. The taxability of cross border transactions has received an increasing level of scrutiny among regulators across the globe, including the jurisdictions in which we operate. The tax rules and regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate are complex, and in many cases, there is not symmetry between the rules of the various jurisdictions. As a result, there are instances where regulators within the jurisdictions involved in a cross border transaction may reach different conclusions regarding the taxability of the transaction in their respective jurisdictions based on the same set of facts and circumstances. We work closely with regulators to reach a common understanding and conclusion regarding the taxability of cross border transactions.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 3—New Accounting Standards for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

61

Table of Contents
CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS, INC.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[See Note 21]:
Note 21 - Legal Proceedings 117

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27  net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[as discussed in Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37

[discussed in Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17
