================================================================================
CIK: 0001530721
Company Name: Capri Holdings Ltd
Filing Date: 2019-05-29
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 07:18:54
================================================================================

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current expectations. We sometimes identify forward-looking statements with such words as “may,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “seek,” “intend,” “believe” or similar words concerning future events. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, without limitation, statements concerning our ability to execute on our future growth strategies, our ability to achieve intended benefits from acquisitions, future revenue sources and concentration, gross profit margins, selling and marketing expenses, capital expenditures, general and administrative expenses, capital resources, new stores, Retail Fleet Optimization Plan and anticipated cost savings, share buybacks, additional financings or borrowings and additional losses and future prospects of the Company, and are subject to risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those discussed in this report that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements. We also urge you to carefully review the risk factors set forth in “Item 1A. – Risk Factors.”
Overview
Our Business
Capri Holdings Limited is a global fashion luxury group, consisting of iconic brands that are industry leaders in design, style and craftsmanship, led by a world-class management team and renowned designers. Our brands cover the full spectrum of fashion luxury categories including women’s and men’s accessories, footwear and ready-to-wear as well as wearable technology, watches, jewelry, eyewear and a full line of fragrance products. Our goal is to continue to extend the global reach of our brands while ensuring that they maintain their independence and exclusive DNA.
On December 31, 2018, we completed the acquisitions of Gianni Versace S.r.l. (“Versace”). Versace has long been recognized as one of the world’s leading international fashion design houses and is synonymous with Italian glamour and style. Founded in 1978 in Milan, Versace is known for its iconic and unmistakable style and unparalleled craftsmanship, over the past several decades the House of Versace has grown globally from its roots in haute couture, expanding into the design, manufacturing, distribution and retailing of ready-to-wear, accessories, footwear, eyewear, watches, jewelry, fragrance and home furnishings businesses. Versace’s design team is led by Donatella Versace, who has been the brand’s artistic director for over 20 years. Versace distributes its products through a worldwide distribution network, which includes boutiques in some of the world’s most glamorous cities, its e-commerce site, as well as through the most prestigious department and specialty stores worldwide.
On November 1, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Jimmy Choo Group Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Jimmy Choo”). Jimmy Choo offers a distinctive, glamorous and fashion-forward product range, enabling it to develop into a leading global luxury accessories brand, whose core product offering is women’s luxury shoes, complemented by accessories, including handbags, small leather goods, scarves and belts, as well as a growing men’s luxury shoes and accessory business. In addition, certain categories, such as fragrances, sunglasses and eyewear are produced under licensing agreements. Jimmy Choo's design team is led by Sandra Choi, who has been the Creative Director for the brand since its inception in 1996. Jimmy Choo products are unique, instinctively seductive and chic. The brand offers classic and timeless luxury products, as well as innovative products that are intended to set and lead fashion trends. Jimmy Choo is represented through its global store network, its e-commerce sites, as well as through the most prestigious department and specialty stores worldwide.
The Michael Kors brand was launched over 35 years ago by Michael Kors, whose vision has taken the Company from its beginnings as an American luxury sportswear house to a global accessories, footwear and apparel company with a global distribution network that has presence in over 100 countries through Company-operated retail stores and e-commerce sites, leading department stores, specialty stores and select licensing partners. Michael Kors is a highly recognized luxury fashion brand in the Americas and Europe with growing brand awareness in other international markets. Michael Kors features distinctive designs, materials and craftsmanship with a jet-set aesthetic that combines stylish elegance and a sporty attitude. Michael Kors offers three primary collections: the Michael Kors Collection luxury line, the MICHAEL Michael Kors accessible luxury line and the Michael Kors Mens line. The Michael Kors Collection establishes the aesthetic authority of the entire brand and is carried by many of our retail stores, our e-commerce sites, as well as in the finest luxury department stores in the world. MICHAEL Michael Kors has a strong focus on accessories, in addition to offering footwear and apparel, and addresses the significant demand opportunity in accessible luxury goods.We have also been developing our men’s business in recognition of the significant opportunity afforded by the Michael Kors brand’s established fashion authority and the expanding men’s market. Taken together, our Michael Kors collections target a broad customer base while retaining our premium luxury image.

30

Table of Contents

Certain Factors Affecting Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Establishing brand identity and enhancing global presence. We intend to grow our international presence through our global fashion luxury group, bringing together industry-leading fashion luxury brands.
As mentioned above, on November 1, 2017, we acquired Jimmy Choo for a total transaction value of $1.447 billion. Jimmy Choo has a rich history as a leading global luxury house, renowned for its glamorous and fashion-forward footwear, and is an excellent complement to the Michael Kors brand. In addition, on December 31, 2018 we completed the acquisition of Versace, which is one of the leading international fashion design houses and a symbol of Italian luxury worldwide, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.005 billion, including an equity investment made by the Versace family at acquisition. We believe that these combinations significantly strengthen our future growth opportunities, while also increasing both product and geographic diversification. However, there are risks associated with new acquisitions and the anticipated benefits of acquisitions on our financial results may not be in line with our expectations.
We also intend to continue to increase our international presence and global brand recognition by growing our existing international operations, through acquisitions, the formation of various joint ventures with international partners and continuing with our international licensing arrangements. We feel this is an efficient method for continued penetration into the global luxury goods market, especially for markets where we have yet to establish a substantial presence. In addition, our growth strategy includes assuming direct control of certain licensed international operations to better manage our growth opportunities in the related regions.
See Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our recent acquisitions.
Channel Shift and Demand for Our Accessories and Related Merchandise. Our performance is affected by trends in the luxury goods industry, as well as shifts in demographics and changes in lifestyle preferences. Although the overall consumer spending for personal luxury products has recently increased, consumer shopping preferences have continued to shift from physical stores to on-line shopping. We currently expect that this trend will continue in the foreseeable future. We continue to adjust our operating strategy to the changing business environment. We have made significant progress toward our previously announced plan to close between 100 and 125 of our Michael Kors retail stores at an expected total one-time cost of approximately $100 - $125 million, in order to improve the profitability of our Michael Kors retail store fleet. As of March 30, 2019, we closed at total of 100 stores and recorded restructuring charges of $41 million and $53 million in Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018, respectively. We anticipate finalizing the remainder of the planned store closures under the Retail Fleet Optimization Plan by the end of Fiscal 2020. Collectively, we continue to anticipate ongoing annual savings of approximately $60 million as a result of the store closures and lower depreciation and amortization associated with the impairment charges recorded once these initiatives are completed.
Foreign currency fluctuation. Our consolidated operations are impacted by the relationships between our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and those of our non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional/local currency is other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the Euro, the British Pound, the Chinese Renminbi, the Japanese Yen, the Korean Won and the Canadian Dollar, among others. We continue to expect volatility in the global foreign currency exchange rates, which may have a negative impact on the reported results of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in the future, when translated to U.S. Dollars.
Disruptions in shipping and distribution. Our operations are subject to the impact of shipping disruptions as a result of changes or damage to our distribution infrastructure, as well as due to external factors. Any future disruptions in our shipping and distribution network could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
Costs of Manufacturing and Tariffs. Our industry is subject to volatility in costs related to certain raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products. This volatility applies primarily to costs driven by commodity prices, which can increase or decrease dramatically over a short period of time. In addition, our costs may be impacted by tariffs imposed on our products and increased duties due to changes in trade terms. On May 10, 2019, the U.S. increased the tariff rate from 10% to 25% on $200 million of imports of select product categories from China. President Trump also announced the potential to expand these tariffs to cover all products entering the U.S. from China including ready-to-wear, footwear and men’s products. If the U.S. follows through on its further proposed China tariffs, or if additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by other countries, the cost of our products could increase which could adversely affect our business. These factors may have a material impact on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows to the extent they occur. We use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate these effects by sourcing our products as efficiently as possible. In addition, manufacturing labor costs are also subject to degrees of volatility based on local and global economic conditions. We use commercially reasonable efforts to source from localities that suit our manufacturing standards and result in more favorable labor driven costs to our products.

31

Table of Contents

U.S. Tax Reform. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including, among other things, lowering U.S. statutory federal tax rate and implementing a territorial tax system. The U.S. statutory federal tax rate has been decreased to 21% for Fiscal 2019 and thereafter. The Tax Act also added many new provisions, including changes to bonus depreciation, limits on the deductions for executive compensation and interest expense, a tax on global intangible low-taxed income, the base erosion anti-abuse tax and a deduction for foreign derived intangible income.
In December 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 to provide guidance for companies that would allow for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. Subsequently, as a result of finalizing its full Fiscal 2018 operating results, the issuance of new interpretive guidance, and other analyses performed, the Company finalized its accounting related to the impacts of the Tax Act and recorded immaterial measurement period adjustments in Fiscal 2019.
Segment Information
Prior to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019, we organized our business into four reportable segments: MK Retail, MK Wholesale, MK Licensing and Jimmy Choo. As a result of our acquisition of Versace, effective beginning in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019, we realigned our reportable segments according to the new structure of our business. As a result, we now operate in three reportable segments, which are as follows:
Versace
The Versace business was acquired and consolidated beginning on December 31, 2018. We generate revenue through the sale of Versace luxury ready-to-wear, accessories, footwear and home furnishings through directly operated Versace boutiques throughout North America (United States and Canada), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and certain parts of Asia, as well as through Versace outlet stores and e-commerce sites. In addition, revenue is generated through wholesale sales to distribution partners (including geographic licensing arrangements), multi-brand department stores and specialty stores worldwide, as well as through product license agreements in connection with the manufacturing and sale of jeans, fragrances, watches, jewelry and eyewear.
Jimmy Choo
The Jimmy Choo business was acquired and consolidated beginning on November 1, 2017. We generate revenue through the sale of Jimmy Choo luxury goods to end clients through directly operated Jimmy Choo stores throughout the Americas (United States, Canada and Latin America), EMEA and certain parts of Asia, through our e-commerce sites, as well as through wholesale sales of luxury goods to distribution partners (including geographic licensing arrangements that allow third parties to use the Jimmy Choo tradename in connection with retail and/or wholesale sales of Jimmy Choo branded products in specific geographic regions), multi-brand department stores and specialty stores worldwide. In addition, revenue is generated through product licensing agreements, which allow third parties to use the Jimmy Choo brand name and trademarks in connection with the manufacturing and sale of fragrances, sunglasses and eyewear.
Michael Kors
The Michael Kors brand was launched over 35 years ago and is the foundation to our global fashion luxury group. We generate sales of Michael Kors products through four primary Michael Kors retail store formats: “Collection” stores, “Lifestyle” stores (including concessions), outlet stores and e-commerce, through which we sell our products, as well as licensed products bearing our name, directly to the end consumer throughout the Americas, Europe and certain parts of Asia. Our Michael Kors e-commerce business includes e-commerce sites in the U.S., Canada, certain parts of Europe, China, South Korea and Japan. We also sell Michael Kors products directly to department stores, primarily located across the Americas and Europe, to specialty stores and travel retail shops in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and to our geographic licensees in certain parts of EMEA, Asia and Brazil. In addition, revenue is generated through product and geographic licensing arrangements, which allow third parties to use the Michael Kors brand name and trademarks in connection with the manufacturing and sale of products, including watches, jewelry, fragrances and beauty, and eyewear, as well as through geographic licensing arrangements, which allow third parties to use the Michael Kors tradename in connection with the retail and/or wholesale sales of our Michael Kors branded products in specific geographic regions, such as Brazil, the Middle East, South Africa, Eastern Europe, certain parts of Asia and Australia.

32

Table of Contents

Unallocated Expenses
In addition to the reportable segments discussed above, we have certain corporate costs that are not directly attributable to our brands and, therefore, are not allocated to segments. Such costs primarily include certain administrative, corporate occupancy, information systems expenses, including Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system implementation costs. In addition, certain other costs are not allocated to segments, including restructuring and other charges (including transaction and transition costs related to our recent acquisitions) and impairment costs. The new segment structure is consistent with how we plan and allocate resources, manage our business and assess our performance. All prior period segment information has been recast to reflect the realignment of our segment reporting structure on a comparable basis. The following table presents our total revenue and income from operations by segment for Fiscal 2019, Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017 (in millions):

------------------------------------ ------------------------------- ------------------ --- -------------- ----- ------------- --- ----- - ----- -

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017
Total revenue:
 Versace $ 137 $ — $ —
 Jimmy Choo 590 223 —
 Michael Kors 4,511 4,496 4,494
Total revenue $ 5,238 $ 4,719 $ 4,494

Income (loss) from operations:
 Versace $ (11 ) $ — $ —
 Jimmy Choo 20 (4 ) —
 Michael Kors 964 975 979
Total segment income from operations 973 971 979
Less: Corporate expenses (93 ) (87 ) (79 )
 Restructuring and other charges (124 ) (102 ) (11 )
 Impairment of long-lived assets (21 ) (33 ) (199 )
Total income from operations $ 735 $ 749 $ 690

33

Table of Contents

The following table presents our global network of retail stores and wholesale doors:

----------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -------------- ----- ------------- -----

 As of
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017
Number of full price retail stores (including concessions):
Versace 146 — —
Jimmy Choo 169 158 —
Michael Kors 587 596 614
 902 754 614

Number of outlet stores:
Versace 42 — —
Jimmy Choo 39 24 —
Michael Kors 266 233 213
 347 257 213

Total number of retail stores 1,249 1,011 827

Total number of wholesale doors:
Versace 1,028 — —
Jimmy Choo 596 629 —
Michael Kors 3,202 3,544 3,607
 4,826 4,173 3,607

The following table presents our retail stores by geographic location:

---------------------- -------------- -------------- --- ------------ ---------- ------------ --- ---

 As of As of
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018
 Versace Jimmy Choo Michael Kors Jimmy Choo Michael Kors
Store count by region:
The Americas 28 43 390 38 379
EMEA 53 71 186 62 198
Asia 107 94 277 82 252
 188 208 853 182 829

Key Performance Indicators and Statistics
We use a number of key indicators of operating results to evaluate our performance, including the following (dollars in millions):

---------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- -------------- ---- ------------- ----- ---- - - -----

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017
Total revenue $ 5,238 $ 4,719 $ 4,494
Gross profit as a percent of total revenue 60.7 % 60.6 % 59.2 %
Income from operations $ 735 $ 749 $ 690
Income from operations as a percent of total revenue 14.0 % 15.9 % 15.4 %

34

Table of Contents

Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Critical accounting policies are those that are the most important to the portrayal of our results of operations and financial condition and that require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying such policies, we must use certain assumptions that are based on our informed judgments, assessments of probability and best estimates. Estimates, by their nature, are subjective and are based on analysis of available information, including current and historical factors and the experience and judgment of management. We evaluate our assumptions and estimates on an ongoing basis. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, we adopted the new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition, as described in Note 2 and Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Under this guidance, the timing of revenue recognition for royalty and advertising revenue under certain of our licensing agreements may shift among fiscal quarters. In addition, we eliminated a one-month reporting lag for one of our licensees, and began to recognize revenue for the unredeemed portion of our gift cards that are not required to be remitted as unclaimed property proportionally over the estimated customer redemption period.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for goods or services. We recognize retail store revenue when control of the product is transferred at the point of sale at our owned stores, including concessions. Revenue from sales through our e-commerce sites is recognized at the time of delivery to the customer, reduced by an estimate of returns. Wholesale revenue is recognized net of estimates for sales returns, discounts, markdowns and allowances, after merchandise is shipped and control of the underlying product is transferred to our wholesale customers. To arrive at net sales for retail, gross sales are reduced by actual customer returns, as well as by a provision for estimated future customer returns, which is based on management’s review of historical and current customer returns. The amounts reserved for retail sales returns were $15 million, $12 million and $7 million at March 30, 2019, March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively. Net sales for wholesale equals gross sales, reduced by provisions for estimated future returns based on current expectations, as well as trade discounts, markdowns, allowances, operational chargebacks, and certain cooperative selling expenses. Total sales reserves for wholesale were $112 million, $109 million and $97 million at March 30, 2019, March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively. These estimates are based on such factors as historical trends, actual and forecasted performance, and market conditions, which are reviewed by management on a quarterly basis. Our historical estimates of these costs were not materially different from actual results.
Royalty revenue generated from product licenses, which includes contributions for advertising, is based on reported sales of licensed products bearing our tradenames at rates specified in the license agreements. These agreements are also subject to contractual minimum levels. Royalty revenue generated by geographic licensing agreements is recognized as it is earned under the licensing agreements based on reported sales of licensees applicable to specified periods, as outlined in the agreements. These agreements allow for the use of our tradenames to sell our branded products in specific geographic regions.
During Fiscal 2018, we launched our Michael Kors customer loyalty program, which allows customers to earn points on qualifying purchases toward monetary and non-monetary rewards , which may be redeemed for purchases at our retail stores and e-commerce sites. We allocate a portion of the initial sales transaction based on the estimated relative fair value of the benefits based on projected timing of future redemptions and historical activity. These amounts include estimated “breakage” for points that are not expected to be redeemed. The contract liability, net of an estimated “breakage,” is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Our breakage and other assumptions used to determine the estimated fair value of benefits are estimates, which could vary significantly from actual benefits that will be redeemed in the future.
Inventories
Our inventory costs include amounts paid to independent manufacturers, plus duties and freight to bring the goods to the Company’s warehouses, which are located in the United States, Italy, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Arab Emirates. We continuously evaluate the composition of our inventory and make adjustments when the cost of inventory is not expected to be fully recoverable. The net realizable value of our inventory is estimated based on historical experience, current and forecasted demand and market conditions. In addition, reserves for inventory losses are estimated based on historical experience and inventory counts. Our inventory reserves are estimates, which could vary significantly from actual results if future economic conditions, customer demand or competition differ from expectations. Our historical estimates of these adjustments have not differed materially from actual results.

35

Table of Contents

Long-lived Assets
We evaluate all long-lived assets, including fixed assets and definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset may not be recoverable. For the purposes of impairment testing, we group our long-lived assets according to their lowest level of use, such as aggregating and capitalizing all construction costs related to a retail store into leasehold improvements and those related to our wholesale business into shop-in-shops. Our leasehold improvements are typically amortized over the life of the store lease, including highly probable renewals, and our shop-in-shops are amortized over a useful life of three or four years. Our impairment testing is based on our best estimate of the future operating cash flows. If the sum of our estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset is less than the asset’s carrying value, we recognize an impairment charge, which is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. These estimates of future cash flows require significant management judgment and certain assumptions about future volume, sales and expense growth rates, devaluation and inflation. As such, these estimates may differ from actual cash flows and future impairments may result if actual cash flows are lower than our expectations. During Fiscal 2019, Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017, we recorded impairment charges of $21 million, $33 million and $199 million, respectively, primarily related to fixed assets and lease rights for underperforming Michael Kors retail stores. Fiscal 2019 amount also included impairment charges of $4 million related to Jimmy Choo retail store locations. Please refer to Note 7, Note 8 and Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated audited financial statements for additional information.
Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets
We record intangible assets based on their fair value on the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recorded for the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired. The brand intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisitions of Versace and Jimmy Choo were determined to be an indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are not subject to amortization. We perform an impairment assessment of goodwill, as well as the Versace brand and Jimmy Choo brand intangible assets on an annual basis, or whenever impairment indicators exist. In the absence of any impairment indicators, goodwill, the Versace brand and the Jimmy Choo brand are assessed for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of the business.
We may assess our goodwill and our brand indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment initially using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of these assets is greater than their carrying value. When performing a qualitative test, we assess various factors including industry and market conditions, macroeconomic conditions and performance of our businesses. If the results of the qualitative assessment indicate that it is more likely than not that our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired, a quantitative impairment analysis would be performed to determine if impairment is required. We may also elect to perform a quantitative analysis of goodwill and our indefinite-lived intangible assets initially rather than using a qualitative approach.
The impairment testing for goodwill is performed at the reporting unit level. The valuation methods used in the quantitative fair value assessment, discounted cash flow and market multiples method, require our management to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding certain industry trends and future profitability of our reporting units. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the related carrying value, the reporting unit’s goodwill is considered not to be impaired and no further testing is performed. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded for the difference. The valuation of goodwill is affected by, among other things, our business plan for the future and estimated results of future operations. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist, and, therefore, that goodwill may be impaired.
When performing a quantitative impairment assessment of our brand indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair value of the Versace and the Jimmy Choo brands is estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the "relief from royalty" method, assuming that a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in lieu of ownership for this intangible asset. This approach is dependent on many factors, including estimates of future growth, royalty rates, and discount rates. Actual future results may differ from these estimates. Impairment loss is recognized when the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived brand intangible assets is less than its carrying amount.

36

Table of Contents

During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019, we performed our annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analysis for our three brands. The impairment analysis relating to the Versace goodwill and brand were performed using a qualitative approach due to the proximity to the acquisition date and it was concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of goodwill and brand exceeded their respective carrying values and, therefore, did not result in impairment. We also performed our goodwill impairment assessment for the Michael Kors brand using a qualitative approach. As a result of realigning our segment reporting structure during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019, we presented the carrying amount of goodwill of MK Retail, MK Wholesale and MK Licensing within the Michael Kors reportable segment (see Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information). Based on the results of our qualitative impairment assessment, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the Michael Kors’ reporting units exceeded their carrying value and, therefore, was not impaired. We elected to perform our annual goodwill and brand impairment analysis for Jimmy Choo brand using a quantitative approach, using discounted cash flow analysis to estimate the fair values of the Jimmy Choo reporting units, as described above. Based on the results of these assessments, we concluded that the fair values of the Jimmy Choo reporting units and the brand indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeded the related carrying amounts and there were no reporting units at risk of impairment. See Note 8 to the accompanying audited financial statements for information relating to our annual impairment analysis performed during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019. There were no impairment charges related to goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets in any of the fiscal periods presented.
Share-based Compensation
We grant share-based awards to certain of our employees and directors. The grant date fair value of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which requires us to use subjective assumptions. The closing market price at the grant date is used to determine the grant date fair value of restricted shares, restricted share units (“RSUs”) and performance-based RSUs. These values are recognized as expense over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, based on expected attainment of pre-established performance goals for performance grants, or the passage of time for those grants which have only time-based vesting requirements. Compensation expense for performance-based RSUs is recognized over the employees' requisite service period when attainment of the performance goals is deemed probable, which involves judgment as to achievement of certain performance metrics.
Beginning in Fiscal 2018, we began using our own historical experience in determining the expected holding period and volatility of our time-based share option awards. Prior to Fiscal 2018, we used the simplified method for determining the expected life of our options and average volatility rates of similar actively traded companies over the estimated holding period, due to insufficient historical option exercise experience as a public company. Determining the grant date fair value of share-based awards requires considerable judgment, including estimating expected volatility, expected term, risk-free rate, and forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, the fair value of future awards and resulting share-based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have estimated in the past.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Forward Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts
We use forward currency exchange contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency for certain of our transactions. We are exposed to risks on certain purchase commitments to foreign suppliers based on the value of our purchasing subsidiaries’ local currency relative to the currency requirement of the supplier on the date of the commitment. As such, we enter into forward currency contracts that generally mature in 12 months or less, which is consistent with the related purchase commitments. We designate certain contracts related to the purchase of inventory that qualify for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges. All of our derivative instruments are recorded in our consolidated balance sheets at fair value on a gross basis, regardless of their hedge designation. The effective portion of changes in the fair value for contracts designated as cash flow hedges is recorded in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item effects earnings. When the inventory related to forecasted inventory purchases that are being hedged is sold to a third party, the gains or losses deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recognized within cost of goods sold. We use regression analysis to assess effectiveness of derivative instruments that are designated as hedges, which compares the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument to the change in the related hedged item. Effectiveness is assessed on a quarterly basis and any portion of the designated hedge contracts deemed ineffective is recorded to foreign currency gain (loss). If the hedge is no longer expected to be highly effective in the future, future changes in the fair value are recognized in earnings. For those contracts that are not designated as hedges, changes in the fair value are recorded in foreign currency gain (loss) in our consolidated statements of operations.

37

Table of Contents

Net Investment Hedges
We also use fixed-to-fixed cross currency swap agreements to hedge our net investments in foreign operations against future volatility in the exchange rates between its U.S. Dollars and these foreign currencies. We have elected the spot method of designating these contracts under ASU 2017-12, as defined in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, and have designated these contracts as net investment hedges. The net gain or loss on net investment hedges is reported within foreign currency translation gains and losses (“CTA”), as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheets. Interest accruals and coupon payments are recognized directly in interest expense in our statement of operations and comprehensive income. Upon discontinuation of a hedge, all previously recognized amounts remain in CTA until the hedged net investment is sold, diluted, or liquidated.
We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. In order to mitigate counterparty credit risk, we only enter into contracts with carefully selected financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and certain other financial factors, adhering to established limits for credit exposure.
Income Taxes
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect temporary differences between the tax basis and financial reporting basis of our assets and liabilities and are determined using the tax rates and laws in effect for the periods in which the differences are expected to reverse. We periodically assess the realizability of deferred tax assets and the adequacy of deferred tax liabilities, based on the results of local, state, federal or foreign statutory tax audits or our own estimates and judgments.
Realization of deferred tax assets associated with net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income prior to their expiration in the applicable tax jurisdiction. We periodically review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and provide valuation allowances as deemed necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to amounts that more-likely-than-not will be realized. This determination involves considerable judgment and our management considers many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including recent earnings results within various taxing jurisdictions, expectations of future taxable income, the carryforward periods remaining and other factors. Changes in the required valuation allowance are recorded in income in the period such determination is made. Deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if our estimates of taxable income during the carryforward period are significantly reduced or alternative tax strategies are no longer viable.
We recognize the impact of an uncertain income tax position taken on our income tax returns at the largest amount that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. The effect of an uncertain income tax position will not be taken into account if the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Our tax positions are analyzed periodically (at least quarterly) and adjustments are made as events occur that warrant adjustments for those positions. We record interest expense and penalties payable to relevant tax authorities as income tax expense.
New Accounting Pronouncements
Please refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for detailed information relating to recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements and the associated impacts.
General Definitions for Operating Results
Total revenue consists of sales from comparable retail stores and e-commerce sites and non-comparable retail stores and e-commerce sites, net of returns and markdowns, as well as those made to our wholesale customers, net of returns, discounts, markdowns and allowances. Additionally, revenue includes royalties and other contributions earned on sales of licensed products by our licensees as well as contractual royalty rates for the use of our trademarks in certain geographic territories.
Comparable store sales include sales from a retail store or an e-commerce site that has been operating for one full year after the end of the first month of its operation under our ownership. For stores that are closed, sales that were made in the final month of their operations (assuming closure prior to the fiscal month’s end), are excluded from the calculation of comparable store sales. Additionally, sales for stores that are either relocated, or expanded by a square footage of 25% or greater, in any given fiscal year, are also excluded from the calculation of comparable store sales at the time of their move or interruption, until such stores have been in their new location, or are operating under their new size/capacity, for at least one full year after the end of the first month of their relocation or expansion. All comparable store sales are presented on a 52-week basis. Comparable store sales are reported on a global basis, which represents management’s view of our Company as an expanding global business.

38

Table of Contents

Constant currency effects are non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, which are provided to supplement our reported operating results to facilitate comparisons of our operating results and trends in our business, excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Because we are a global company, foreign currency exchange rates may have a significant effect on our reported results. We calculate constant currency measures and the related foreign currency impacts by translating the current-year’s reported amounts into comparable amounts using prior year’s foreign exchange rates for each currency. All constant currency performance measures discussed below should be considered a supplement to and not in lieu of our operating performance measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Cost of goods sold includes the cost of inventory sold, freight-in on merchandise and foreign currency exchange gains/losses related to designated forward contracts for purchase commitments. All retail operating and occupancy costs are included in Selling, general and administrative expenses (see below) and, as a result, our cost of goods sold may not be comparable to that of other entities that have chosen to include some or all of those expenses as a component of their cost of goods sold.
Gross profit is total revenue minus cost of goods sold. As a result of retail operating and occupancy costs being excluded from our cost of goods sold, our gross profit may not be comparable to that of other entities that have chosen to include some or all of those expenses as a component of their gross profit.
Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of warehousing and distribution costs, rent for our distribution centers, payroll, store occupancy costs (such as rent, common area maintenance, store pre-opening, real estate taxes and utilities), information technology and systems costs, corporate payroll and related benefits, advertising and promotion expense and other general expenses.
Depreciation and amortization includes depreciation and amortization of fixed assets and definite-lived intangible assets.
Impairment of long-lived assets consists of charges to write-down fixed assets and finite-lived intangible assets to fair value. Impairment charges are not allocated to our reportable segments.
Restructuring and other charges includes store closure costs recorded in connection with the Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan and other restructuring initiatives, as well as transaction and transition costs recorded in connection with our acquisitions of Versace, Jimmy Choo and MKHKL businesses (please refer to Note 4 and Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information). Restructuring and other charges are not allocated to our reportable segments.
Income from operations consists of gross profit minus total operating expenses.
Other (income) expense, net includes insurance settlements, proceeds received related to our anti-counterfeiting efforts and rental income from our owned distribution center in Europe. In future periods, it may include any other miscellaneous activities not directly related to our operations.
Interest expense, net represents interest and fees on our revolving credit facilities, senior notes, term loan facilities and letters of credit (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further detail on our credit facilities), as well as amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discount, offset by interest earned on highly liquid investments (investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less, classified as cash equivalents) and interest on cross-currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).
Foreign currency (gain)/loss includes net gains or losses related to the mark-to-market (fair value) on our forward currency contracts not designated as accounting hedges, including acquisition-related contracts, and unrealized income or loss from the re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries.
Noncontrolling interests/Redeemable noncontrolling interest represents the portion of the equity ownership in the Michael Kors Latin American joint venture, MK (Panama) Holdings, S.A. and subsidiaries (“MK Panama”), noncontrolling interests in JC Industry S.r.L and JC Gulf Trading LLC, as well as in J. Choo Russia J.V. Limited, and noncontrolling interests in Versace Singapore Pte. Ltd. and Versace Korea Co. Ltd, as well as the redeemable noncontrolling interest in Versace Australia PTY Limited.

39

Table of Contents

Results of Operations
Comparison of Fiscal 2019 with Fiscal 2018
The following table details the results of our operations for Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018 and expresses the relationship of certain line items to total revenue as a percentage (dollars in millions):

------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- -------------- ----- -------- ----- -------------------------------- - -------------------------------- ----- -- ---- -- ---- --

 Fiscal Years Ended $ Change % Change % of TotalRevenue forFiscal 2019 % of TotalRevenue forFiscal 2018
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018
Statements of Operations Data:
Total revenue $ 5,238 $ 4,719 $ 519 11.0 %
Cost of goods sold 2,058 1,860 198 10.6 % 39.3 % 39.4 %
Gross profit 3,180 2,859 321 11.2 % 60.7 % 60.6 %
Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,075 1,767 308 17.4 % 39.6 % 37.4 %
Depreciation and amortization 225 208 17 8.2 % 4.3 % 4.4 %
Impairment of long-lived assets 21 33 (12 ) (36.4 )% 0.4 % 0.7 %
Restructuring and other charges (1) 124 102 22 21.6 % 2.4 % 2.2 %
Total operating expenses 2,445 2,110 335 15.9 % 46.7 % 44.7 %
Income from operations 735 749 (14 ) (1.9 )% 14.0 % 15.9 %
Other income, net (4 ) (2 ) (2 ) NM (0.1 )% — %
Interest expense, net 38 22 16 72.7 % 0.7 % 0.5 %
Foreign currency loss (gain) 80 (13 ) 93 NM 1.5 % (0.3 )%
Income before provision for income taxes 621 742 (121 ) (16.3 )% 11.9 % 15.7 %
Provision for income taxes 79 150 (71 ) (47.3 )% 1.5 % 3.2 %
Net income 542 592 (50 ) (8.4 )%
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (1 ) — (1 ) NM
Net income attributable to Capri $ 543 $ 592 $ (49 ) (8.3 )%

___________________
NM Not meaningful.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes store closure costs recorded in connection with the Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan (as defined in Note 10) and other restructuring initiatives, as well as transaction and transition costs recorded in connection with our acquisitions of Versace and Jimmy Choo.

Total Revenue
Total revenue increased $519 million, or 11.0%, to $5.238 billion for Fiscal 2019, compared to $4.719 billion for Fiscal 2018, which included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $34 million primarily related to the weakening of the Euro, the British Pound, the Chinese Renminbi and the Canadian Dollar against the U.S. Dollar in Fiscal 2019, as compared to Fiscal 2018. On a constant currency basis, our total revenue increased $553 million, or 11.7%. Total revenue for Fiscal 2019 included approximately $329 million of incremental revenue attributable to Jimmy Choo, which was acquired and consolidated into our results of operations effective November 1, 2017 and $137 million of incremental revenue attributable to Versace, which was acquired and consolidated into our results of operations effective December 31, 2018. The remainder of the revenue increase was attributable to higher Jimmy Choo and Michael Kors revenues, as compared to the prior year.
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased $321 million, or 11.2%, to $3.180 billion during Fiscal 2019, compared to $2.859 billion for Fiscal 2018, which included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $20 million. Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue increased 10 basis points to 60.7% during Fiscal 2019, compared to 60.6% during Fiscal 2018. The increase in our gross profit margin was primarily attributable to the inclusion of Jimmy Choo, which benefited our gross margin 50 basis points, partially offset by lower gross profit margin for Michael Kors primarily driven by increased markdowns during Fiscal 2019, as compared to Fiscal 2018.

40

Table of Contents

Total Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses increased $335 million, or 15.9%, to $2.445 billion during Fiscal 2019, compared to $2.110 billion for Fiscal 2018. Our operating expenses included a net favorable foreign currency impact of approximately $18 million. Total operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 46.7% in Fiscal 2019, compared to 44.7% in Fiscal 2018. The components that comprise total operating expenses are detailed below.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $308 million, or 17.4%, to $2.075 billion during Fiscal 2019, compared to $1.767 billion for Fiscal 2018. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the following:

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• incremental costs of $187 million associated with the recently acquired Jimmy Choo business, which has been consolidated in our operations beginning on November 1, 2017;

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• incremental costs of $86 million associated with the recently acquired Versace business, which has been consolidated in our operations beginning on December 31, 2018; and

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• increased retail store and e-commerce related costs of $53 million, primarily comprised of increased occupancy costs, increased advertising costs and increased salaries.

These increases were partially offset by decreased distribution and selling costs of $24 million.
Corporate unallocated expenses, which are included within selling, general and administrative expenses discussed above, but are not directly attributable to a reportable segment, increased $6 million, or 6.9%, to $93 million in Fiscal 2019 as compared to $87 million in Fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 39.6% during Fiscal 2019, compared to 37.4% for Fiscal 2018, primarily due to the inclusion of expenses associated with Jimmy Choo and Versace and increased retail store related costs, partially offset by lower selling and distribution costs as a percentage of total revenue during Fiscal 2019, as compared to Fiscal 2018.
Depreciation and Amortization
Depreciation and amortization increased $17 million, or 8.2%, to $225 million during Fiscal 2019, compared to $208 million for Fiscal 2018. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily attributable to incremental depreciation and amortization expenses of $19 million and $9 million, respectively, attributable to Jimmy Choo and Versace (including amortization of purchase accounting adjustments), partially offset by lower depreciation due to previously recorded fixed asset impairment charges. Depreciation and amortization decreased to 4.3% as a percentage of total revenue during Fiscal 2019, compared to 4.4% for Fiscal 2018.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
During Fiscal 2019, we recognized long-lived asset impairment charges of $21 million, of which $17 million related to underperforming Michael Kors full-price retail store locations, some of which will be closed as part of our previously announced Retail Fleet Optimization Plan (see Note 10 and Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information), as well as $4 million relating to Jimmy Choo retail store locations. During Fiscal 2018, we recognized long-lived asset impairment charges of approximately $33 million, which primarily related to underperforming Michael Kors full-price retail store locations. Impairment charges are not evaluated as part of our reportable segments’ results (See Segment Information above for additional information).
Restructuring and Other Charges
During Fiscal 2019, we recognized restructuring and other charges of $124 million, which included restructuring charges of $45 million, primarily associated with our Retail Fleet Optimization Plan (see Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information) and transaction and transition costs of $79 million, $52 million of which related to the Versace acquisition and $27 million related to the Jimmy Choo acquisition.
During Fiscal 2018, we recognized restructuring and other charges of $102 million, which were comprised of $40 million of transaction costs and $9 million of transition costs recorded in connection with the Jimmy Choo acquisition, as well as restructuring charges of $53 million recorded in connection with our Michael Kors brand Retail Fleet Optimization Plan. Restructuring and other charges are not evaluated as part of our reportable segments' results (See Segment Information above for additional information).

41

Table of Contents

Income from Operations
As a result of the foregoing, income from operations decreased $14 million, or 1.9%, to $735 million during Fiscal 2019, compared to $749 million for Fiscal 2018. Income from operations as a percentage of total revenue decreased to 14.0% in Fiscal 2019, compared to 15.9% in Fiscal 2018. See Segment Information above for a reconciliation of our segment operating income to total operating income.
Interest expense, net
Interest expense, net increased $16 million, or 72.7%, to $38 million for Fiscal 2019, as compared to $22 million for Fiscal 2018, primarily due to increased interest expense attributable to higher borrowings than in prior year (see Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information). This increase was partially offset by a $17 million reduction to interest expense related to the cross-currency swap used as a net investment hedge during Fiscal 2019 (see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).
Foreign Currency Loss (Gain)
We recognized a net foreign currency loss of $80 million during Fiscal 2019, primarily attributable to a $77 million loss related to forward foreign currency exchange derivative contracts to hedge the transaction price of the Versace acquisition (see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).
We recognized a net foreign currency gain of $13 million during Fiscal 2018, which included net gains on revaluation and settlement of certain of our accounts payable in currencies other than the functional currency of the applicable reporting units, and the remeasurement of dollar-denominated intercompany loans with certain of our subsidiaries, as well as a net gain of $3 million related to the change in fair value of undesignated forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which included a $5 million realized gain related to a forward foreign currency exchange derivative contract to hedge the transaction price of the Jimmy Choo acquisition (please refer to Note 4 and Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).
Provision for Income Taxes
We recognized $79 million of income tax expense during Fiscal 2019, compared with $150 million for Fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate for Fiscal 2019 was 12.7%, compared to 20.2% for Fiscal 2018. The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily due to an increase in the proportion of earnings generated in lower tax jurisdictions and the release of certain income tax reserves during Fiscal 2019. These decreases were partially offset by a lower favorable effect of our global financing activities during Fiscal 2019, compared to Fiscal 2018. The global financing activities are related to our previously disclosed 2014 move of our principal executive office from Hong Kong to the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and decision to become a U.K. tax resident. In connection with this decision, we funded our international growth strategy through intercompany debt financing arrangements between certain of our U.S., U.K. and Switzerland subsidiaries in December 2015. Accordingly, due to the difference in the statutory income tax rates between these jurisdictions, we realized a lower effective tax rate.
Our effective tax rate may fluctuate from time to time due to the effects of changes in U.S. state and local taxes and tax rates in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, factors such as the geographic mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation and the results of various global tax strategies, may also impact our effective tax rate in future periods.
Net Income Attributable to Capri
As a result of the foregoing, our net income attributable to Capri decreased $49 million, or 8.3%, to $543 million during Fiscal 2019, compared to $592 million for Fiscal 2018.

42

Table of Contents

Segment Information
Versace

-------------------- ------------------ --- -------------- - -------- - --- - - ---

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 $ Change
Revenues $ 137 $ — $ 137
Loss from operations (11 ) — (11 )
Operating margin (8.0 )% — %

Revenues
The Versace business acquired on December 31, 2018 contributed approximately $137 million to our total revenue for Fiscal 2019.
Loss from Operations
During the period from the December 31, 2018 acquisition date to March 30, 2019, we recorded a net loss from operations for Versace of $11 million (after amortization of non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction and transition related costs).
Jimmy Choo

----------------------------- ------------------ --- -------------- ---- -------- --- -- - ---

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 $ Change
Revenues $ 590 $ 223 $ 367
Income (loss) from operations 20 (4 ) 24
Operating margin 3.4 % (1.8 )%

Revenues
Revenue earned from Jimmy Choo increased $367 million to $590 million for Fiscal 2019, compared to $223 million for Fiscal 2018. Fiscal 2019 included incremental revenue of $329 million due to the inclusion of the Jimmy Choo business acquired on November 1, 2017 for the entire Fiscal 2019. In addition, Jimmy Choo sales increased $38 million primarily due to higher footwear sales in all major geographies.
Income (loss) from Operations
During Fiscal 2019, our operating income for Jimmy Choo increased by $24 million from a loss of $4 million in for the period from the date of acquisition through March 31, 2018 to income of $20 million for Fiscal 2019. Income from operations as a percentage of Jimmy Choo revenue improved 520 basis points from (1.8)% for the period from the date of acquisition through March 31, 2018 compared to 3.4% in Fiscal 2019, which was primarily due to operating leverage of expenses, including selling, retail store related and advertising and marketing, partially offset by an increase in other corporate expenses.

43

Table of Contents

Michael Kors

---------------------- ------------------ ----- -------------- ---- -------- ----- ----------- - ---------------- ---- -- --- - --- -

 Fiscal Years Ended % Change
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 $ Change As Reported ConstantCurrency
Revenues $ 4,511 $ 4,496 $ 15 0.3 % 0.8 %
Income from operations 964 975 (11 ) (1.1 )%
Operating margin 21.4 % 21.7 %

Revenues
Michael Kors revenues increased $15 million, or 0.3%, to $4.511 billion for Fiscal 2019, compared to $4.496 billion for Fiscal 2018, which included unfavorable foreign currency effects of $23 million. On a constant currency basis, revenue increased $38 million, or 0.8%. The increase in revenues was due to:

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• an increase in non-comparable store sales of $58 million, due to the growth of our Michael Kors retail store network of 24 stores (net of stores closures), primarily in Asia; and

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• a $3 million increase in revenues, primarily driven by higher wholesale sales of footwear, partially offset by lower licensing revenues related to sales of fashion watches and jewelry.

These increases were partially offset by:

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• a decrease in comparable store sales of $46 million, or 2.0%, including net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $14 million, which was primarily attributable to lower sales from our women’s accessories, watches and jewelry product categories, offset in part by higher sales from women’s footwear and apparel. Our comparable store sales benefited approximately 270 basis points from the inclusion of e-commerce sales.

Income from Operations
Income from operations for our Michael Kors segment decreased $11 million, or 1.1%, to $964 million for Fiscal 2019, compared to $975 million for Fiscal 2018. Income from operations as a percentage of Michael Kors revenue declined 30 basis points to 21.4% in Fiscal 2019, compared to 21.7% in Fiscal 2018, largely due to a decrease in gross profit margin, as previously discussed.

44

Table of Contents

Results of Operations
Comparison of Fiscal 2018 with Fiscal 2017
The following table details the results of our operations for Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017 and expresses the relationship of certain line items to total revenue as a percentage (dollars in millions):

------------------------------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ------------- ----- -------- ----- -------------------------------- - -------------------------------- ----- -- ---- -- ---- --

 Fiscal Years Ended $ Change % Change % of TotalRevenue forFiscal 2018 % of TotalRevenue forFiscal 2017
 March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017
Statements of Operations Data:
Total revenue $ 4,719 $ 4,494 $ 225 5.0 %
Cost of goods sold 1,860 1,833 27 1.5 % 39.4 % 40.8 %
Gross profit 2,859 2,661 198 7.4 % 60.6 % 59.2 %
Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,767 1,541 226 14.7 % 37.4 % 34.3 %
Depreciation and amortization 208 220 (12 ) (5.5 )% 4.4 % 4.9 %
Impairment of long-lived assets 33 199 (166 ) (83.4 )% 0.7 % 4.4 %
Restructuring and other charges (1) 102 11 91 NM 2.2 % 0.2 %
Total operating expenses 2,110 1,971 139 7.1 % 44.7 % 43.9 %
Income from operations 749 690 59 8.6 % 15.9 % 15.4 %
Other income, net (2 ) (6 ) 4 66.7 % — % (0.1 )%
Interest expense, net 22 4 18 NM 0.5 % 0.1 %
Foreign currency (gain) loss (13 ) 3 (16 ) NM (0.3 )% 0.1 %
Income before provision for income taxes 742 689 53 7.7 % 15.7 % 15.3 %
Provision for income taxes 150 137 13 9.5 % 3.2 % 3.0 %
Net income 592 552 40 7.2 %
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest — (1 ) 1 NM
Net income attributable to Capri $ 592 $ 553 $ 39 7.1 %

___________________
NM Not meaningful.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes store closure costs recorded in connection with the Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan (as defined in Note 10), and transaction and transition costs recorded in connection with our acquisitions of the Jimmy Choo and MKHKL businesses (see Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).

Total Revenue
Total revenue increased $225 million, or 5.0%, to $4.719 billion for Fiscal 2018, compared to $4.494 billion for Fiscal 2017, which included net favorable foreign currency effects of $64 million primarily related to the strengthening of the Euro, the Chinese Renminbi and the Canadian Dollar, partially offset by the weakening of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar in Fiscal 2018, as compared to Fiscal 2017. On a constant currency basis, total revenue increased $161 million, or 3.6%. Total revenue for Fiscal 2018 included approximately $223 million of incremental revenue attributable to Jimmy Choo, which was acquired and consolidated into the Company’s results of operations effective November 1, 2017.
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased $198 million, or 7.4%, to $2.859 billion during Fiscal 2018, compared to $2.661 billion for Fiscal 2017, which included net favorable foreign currency effects of $40 million. Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue increased 140 basis points to 60.6% during Fiscal 2018, compared to 59.2% during Fiscal 2017. Our gross margin benefited 20 basis points from the inclusion of Jimmy Choo from the November 1, 2017 acquisition date to March 31, 2018. The remaining increase in the Michael Kors gross profit margin was primarily driven by a favorable channel mix due to a higher proportion of retail sales, as well as favorable geographic mix of sales during Fiscal 2018, as compared to Fiscal 2017.

45

Table of Contents

Total Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses increased $139 million, or 7.1%, to $2.110 billion during Fiscal 2018, compared to 1.971 billion for Fiscal 2017. Our operating expenses included a net unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately $38 million. Total operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 44.7% in Fiscal 2018, compared to 43.9% in Fiscal 2017. The components that comprise total operating expenses are detailed below.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $226 million, or 14.7%, to $1.767 billion during Fiscal 2018, compared to $1.541 billion for Fiscal 2017, including a net unfavorable foreign currency impact of $32 million. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the following:

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• incremental costs of $135 million associated with our newly acquired Jimmy Choo business, which has been consolidated into our operations beginning on November 1, 2017;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• an increase of $48 million in retail store and overhead costs (excluding newly acquired businesses), primarily comprised of increased occupancy costs of $26 million, advertising costs of $13 million and compensation-related costs of $7 million;

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• incremental expenses of approximately $22 million due to the inclusion of the Greater China business acquired on May 31, 2016 for the full year in Fiscal 2018; and

- -------------------------------------------------
• an increase of $32 million in corporate expenses.

These increases were partially offset by:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• lower rent expense of $16 million in connection with store closures under our Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan.

Corporate unallocated expenses, which are included within selling, general and administrative expenses discussed above but are not directly attributable to a reportable segment, increased $8 million or 10.1%, to $87 million in Fiscal 2018 as compared to $79 million in Fiscal 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 37.4% during Fiscal 2018, compared to 34.3% for Fiscal 2017, primarily due to expenses associated with the newly acquired Jimmy Choo business.
Depreciation and Amortization
Depreciation and amortization decreased $12 million, or 5.5%, to $208 million during Fiscal 2018, compared to $220 million for Fiscal 2017. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily attributable to lower depreciation due to fixed asset impairment charges recorded in Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2018. The depreciation and amortization expense for Fiscal 2018 included incremental depreciation and amortization of $13 million related to the newly acquired Jimmy Choo business, as well as $6 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expenses due to the inclusion of the Greater China business for the full period in Fiscal 2018, both including amortization of the respective purchase accounting adjustments. Depreciation and amortization decreased to 4.4% as a percentage of total revenue during Fiscal 2018, compared to 4.9% for Fiscal 2017.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
During Fiscal 2018, we recognized long-lived asset impairment charges of $33 million, $31 million of which related to underperforming Michael Kors full-price retail store locations, some of which were subject to closure as part of the Company’s previously announced Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan and $2 million related to wholesale operations. During Fiscal 2017, we recognized long-lived asset impairment charges of approximately $199 million, principally related to fixed assets and lease rights for underperforming Michael Kors retail store locations. Please refer to Note 13 and Note 20 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Restructuring and Other Charges
During Fiscal 2018, we recognized restructuring and other charges of $102 million, which were comprised of $40 million of transaction costs and $9 million of transition costs recorded in connection with the Jimmy Choo acquisition, as well as restructuring charges of $53 million recorded in connection with our Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan (see Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information). During Fiscal 2017, we recorded $11 million of transaction costs related to the acquisition of the Greater China business.

46

Table of Contents

Income from Operations
As a result of the foregoing, income from operations increased $59 million, or 8.6%, to $749 million during Fiscal 2018, compared to $690 million for Fiscal 2017, which included net favorable foreign currency effects of $2 million. Income from operations as a percentage of total revenue increased to 15.9% in Fiscal 2018, compared to 15.4% in Fiscal 2017. See Segment Information above for a reconciliation of our segment operating income to total operating income.
Other Income, net
Other income, net of $2 million during Fiscal 2018 was primarily related to rental income from our owned distribution center in Europe. Other income of $6 million during Fiscal 2017 was primarily comprised of a $4 million in insurance settlements related to the prior-year disruption to our former third-party operated e-commerce fulfillment center, $1 million in income related to our anti-counterfeiting efforts and $1 million of rental income from our owned distribution center in Europe.
Interest expense, net
Interest expense, net increased $18 million to $22 million for Fiscal 2018, as compared to $4 million for Fiscal 2017, primarily due to higher interest expense on long-term borrowings used to finance the acquisition of Jimmy Choo during Fiscal 2018 (see Note 11 for additional information).
Foreign Currency (Gain) Loss
We recognized a net foreign currency gain of $13 million during Fiscal 2018, which included net gains on revaluation and settlement of certain of our accounts payable in currencies other than the functional currency of the applicable reporting units, and the remeasurement of dollar-denominated intercompany loans with certain of our subsidiaries, as well as a net gain of $3 million related to the change in fair value of undesignated forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which included a $5 million realized gain related to a forward foreign currency exchange derivative contract to hedge the transaction price of the Jimmy Choo acquisition (see Note 4 and Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).
The foreign currency loss of $3 million recorded during Fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to net losses on the revaluation and settlement of certain of our accounts payable in currencies other than the functional currency of the applicable reporting units, as well as the remeasurement of dollar-denominated intercompany loans with certain of our subsidiaries. The net foreign currency loss for Fiscal 2017 also included favorable mark-to-market adjustment of $3 million related to our forward foreign currency contracts not designated as accounting hedges.
Provision for Income Taxes
We recognized $150 million of income tax expense during Fiscal 2018, compared with $137 million for Fiscal 2017. Our effective tax rate for Fiscal 2018 was 20.2%, compared to 19.9% for Fiscal 2017. The increase in our effective tax rate was primarily due to the the re-measurement of uncertain U.S. state and foreign tax positions and the unfavorable effects of U.S. tax reform. These increases were partially offset by an increase in income in lower tax jurisdictions, primarily in Europe.
Net Income Attributable to Capri
As a result of the foregoing, our net income attributable to Capri increased $39 million, or 7.1%, to $592 million during Fiscal 2018, compared to $553 million for Fiscal 2017.

47

Table of Contents

Segment Information
Jimmy Choo

-------------------- ------------------ --- ------------- - -------- - -- - - ---

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017 $ Change
Revenues $ 223 $ — $ 223
Loss from operations (4 ) — (4 )
Operating margin (1.8 )% — %

The Jimmy Choo business acquired on November 1, 2017 contributed approximately $223 million to our total revenue for Fiscal 2018.
During the period from the November 1, 2017 acquisition date to March 31, 2018, we recorded a net loss from operations for Jimmy Choo of $4 million (after amortization of non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction and transition related costs).
Michael Kors

---------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------- ---- -------- ----- ----------- - ---------------- ---- -- - - ---- --

 Fiscal Years Ended % Change
 March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017 $ Change As Reported ConstantCurrency
Revenues $ 4,496 $ 4,494 $ 2 — % (1.4 )%
Income from operations 975 979 (4 ) (0.4 )%
Operating margin 21.7 % 21.8 %

Revenues
Michael Kors revenues increased $2 million, to $4.496 billion for Fiscal 2018, compared to $4.494 billion for Fiscal 2017, which included favorable foreign currency effects of $64 million. On a constant currency basis, revenue from Michael Kors decreased $62 million, or 1.4%. The increase in revenues was due to:

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• an increase in non-comparable store sales of $190 million, including net favorable foreign currency effects of $4 million, which was primarily attributable to the growth of our Michael Kors retail store network (net of stores closures) and e-commerce operations since April 1, 2017. Our Greater China business acquired on May 31, 2016 contributed incremental revenues of approximately $42 million to non-comparable store sales for Fiscal 2018.

This increase was partially offset by:

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• a decrease in our comparable store sales of $50 million, or 2.2%, including net favorable foreign currency effects of $35 million, which was primarily attributable to lower sales from our women’s accessories, watches and jewelry product categories, offset in part by higher sales from men’s accessories, women’s apparel and footwear during Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017. Our comparable store sales benefited approximately 230 basis points from the inclusion of e-commerce sales in comparable store sales; and

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• a $137 million decrease in wholesale revenue, including net favorable foreign currency effects of $25 million, due to lower shipments associated with our strategic initiative to reduce promotional activity, which resulted in lower women’s accessories sales, offset in part by higher sales from men’s and women’s apparel during Fiscal 2018 as compared to Fiscal 2017.

Income from Operations
Income from operations for our Michael Kors segment decreased $4 million, or 0.4%, to $975 million for Fiscal 2018, compared to $979 million for Fiscal 2017. Income from operations as a percentage of Michael Kors revenue decreased 10 basis points from 21.8% for Fiscal 2017, to 21.7% for Fiscal 2018. The decrease in income from operations as a percentage of Michael Kors revenue was attributable to an increase in operating expenses of 130 basis points, primarily attributable to an increase in retail store related costs and corporate allocated expenses, offset in part by lower depreciation and amortization expenses. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in gross profit margin of 120 basis points, as previously discussed.

48

Table of Contents

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity
Our primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated from our operations, along with borrowings available under our credit facilities (see below discussion regarding “Revolving Credit Facilities”) and available cash and cash equivalents. Our primary use of this liquidity is to fund the ongoing cash requirements, including our working capital needs and capital investments in our business, debt repayments, acquisitions, returns of capital including share repurchases, dividends and other corporate activities. We believe that the cash generated from our operations, together with borrowings available under our revolving credit facilities and available cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next 12 months, including investments made and expenses incurred in connection with our store growth plans, shop-in-shop growth, investments in corporate and distribution facilities, continued systems development, e-commerce and marketing initiatives. We spent $181 million on capital expenditures during Fiscal 2019, and expect to spend approximately $300 million during Fiscal 2020. The majority of the Fiscal 2018 expenditures related to our retail operations (including e-commerce), with the remainder related to enhancements to our distribution and information systems infrastructure and our corporate offices, as well as in connection with new shop-in-shops.
The following table sets forth key indicators of our liquidity and capital resources (in millions):

------------------------- -------------- ----- -------------- - -----

 As of
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018
Balance Sheet Data:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 172 $ 163
Working capital $ 187 $ 302
Total assets $ 6,650 $ 4,059
Short-term debt $ 630 $ 200
Long-term debt $ 1,936 $ 675

---------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --- -------------- ------ ------------- ----- ---- - - ----- -

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 April 1, 2017
Cash Flows Provided By (Used In):
Operating activities $ 694 $ 1,062 $ 1,035
Investing activities (2,125 ) (1,533 ) (651 )
Financing activities 1,451 389 (850 )
Effect of exchange rate changes (11 ) 15 (6 )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 9 $ (67 ) $ (472 )

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Cash provided by operating activities decreased $368 million to $694 million during Fiscal 2019, as compared to $1.062 billion for Fiscal 2018, which was primarily due to decreases related to changes in our working capital primarily attributable to increased inventory purchases as well as the timing of payments and receipts. The net decrease in cash flows also included decreases to our net income after non-cash adjustments, partially offset by an increase in tax-related long-term liabilities.
Cash provided by operating activities increased $27 million to $1.062 billion during Fiscal 2018, as compared to $1.035 billion for Fiscal 2017. The increase in cash flows from operating activities was primarily due to an increase related to changes in our working capital, partially offset by a decrease in our net income after non-cash adjustments. The increase related to our working capital was primarily attributable to an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities primarily driven by restructuring liabilities recorded in Fiscal 2018 and the timing of tax related payments, and favorable changes in prepaid expenses and other current assets and inventories primarily due to timing. These increases were partially offset by lower accounts payable primarily due to the timing of payments and an unfavorable change in accounts receivable primarily due to a higher decline in wholesale inventory purchases in the prior year.

49

Table of Contents

Cash Used in Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities increased $592 million to $2.125 billion during Fiscal 2019, compared to $1.533 billion during Fiscal 2018. The decrease in cash was primarily attributable to a $460 million increase of cash paid, net of cash acquired, in connection with our Fiscal 2019 acquisition of the Versace business, as compared to our acquisition of the Jimmy Choo business during Fiscal 2018. The decrease in cash was also due to a $77 million realized loss related to an undesignated derivative contract during Fiscal 2019 associated with the Versace acquisition, as well as higher capital expenditures of $61 million, due to higher spending related to build-outs for new and renovated retail stores and expenditures related to corporate infrastructure.
Net cash used in investing activities increased $882 million to $1.533 billion during Fiscal 2018, compared to $651 million during Fiscal 2017. The decrease in cash was primarily attributable to a $934 million increase of cash paid, net of cash acquired, in connection with our Fiscal 2018 acquisition of the Jimmy Choo business, as compared to our acquisition of the previously licensed business in Greater China during Fiscal 2017. This decrease in cash was partially offset by lower capital expenditures of $45 million, due to lower spending related to build-outs of new stores and shop-in-shops and lower corporate expenditures.
Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities increased $1.062 billion to $1.451 billion during Fiscal 2019, compared to $389 million during Fiscal 2018. The increase in cash from financing activities was due to increased debt borrowings of $908 million, net of debt repayments, primarily attributable to higher term loan borrowings to finance the acquisition of Versace, as well as a decrease of $154 million in cash payments to repurchase our ordinary shares.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $389 million during Fiscal 2018, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $850 million during Fiscal 2017. The $1.239 billion increase in cash from financing activities was due to increased debt borrowings of $589 million, which included senior notes and term loan borrowings to finance the acquisition of Jimmy Choo, net of cash repayments, as well as a decrease of $644 million in cash payments to repurchase our ordinary shares.

50

Table of Contents

Debt Facilities
The following table presents a summary of the Company’s borrowing capacity and amounts outstanding as of March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------- --- - -----

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 30,2019 March 31,2018
Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility:
Revolving Credit Facility (excluding up to a $500 million accordion feature) (1)
Total Availability $ 1,000 $ 1,000
Borrowings outstanding (2) 539 200
Letter of credit outstanding 17 16
Remaining availability $ 444 $ 784

Term Loan Facility ($1.6 billion) (3)
Borrowings Outstanding, net of debt issuance costs (4) $ 1,570 $ 229
Remaining availability $ — $ —

4.000% Senior Notes
Borrowings Outstanding, net of debt issuance costs and discount amortization (4) $ 445 $ 445

Other Borrowings (4) $ 1 $ 1

Hong Kong Uncommitted Credit Facility:
Total availability (100 million Hong Kong Dollars) $ 13 $ 13
Borrowings outstanding — —
Bank guarantees outstanding (12 million Hong Kong Dollars) 2 2
Remaining availability $ 11 $ 11

China Uncommitted Credit Facility:
Borrowings outstanding $ — $ —
Total and remaining availability (100 million Chinese Yuan) $ 14 $ —

Japan Credit Facility:
Borrowings outstanding $ — $ —
Total and remaining availability (1.0 billion Japanese Yen) $ 9 $ 9

Versace Uncommitted Credit Facility:
Total availability (20 million Euro) $ 22 $ —
Borrowings outstanding (10 million Euro) (2) 11 —
Remaining availability $ 11 $ —

Total borrowings outstanding(1) $ 2,566 $ 875
Total remaining availability $ 489 $ 804

_____________________________

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) The 2018 Credit Facility contains customary events of default and requires us to maintain a leverage ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter of no greater than 3.75 to 1, calculated as the ratio of the sum of total indebtedness as of the date of the measurement plus 6.0 times the consolidated rent expense for the last four consecutive fiscal quarters, to Consolidated EBITDAR for the last four consecutive fiscal quarters. Consolidated EBITDAR is defined as consolidated net income plus income tax expense, net interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, consolidated rent expense and other non-cash charges, subject to certain deductions. The 2018 Credit Facility also includes other customary covenants that limit additional indebtedness, guarantees, liens, acquisitions and other investments and cash dividends. As of March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants related to our agreements then in effect governing our debt.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Recorded as short-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets as of March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018.

51

Table of Contents

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) The prior $1.0 billion term loan facility was fully utilized to finance a portion of the purchase price of our acquisition of Jimmy Choo on November 1, 2017, and was fully repaid during Fiscal 2019. See Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Recorded as long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet as of March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, except for the current portion of $80 million outstanding under the 2018 Term Loan Facility, which was recorded within short-term debt at March 30, 2019.

We believe that our 2018 Credit Facility is adequately diversified with no undue concentration in any one financial institution. As of March 30, 2019, there were 18 financial institutions participating in the facility, with none maintaining a maximum commitment percentage in excess of 10%. We have no reason to believe that the participating institutions will be unable to fulfill their obligations to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the 2018 Credit Facility.
See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for detailed information relating to our credit facilities and debt obligations.
Share Repurchase Program
The following table presents our treasury share repurchases during the fiscal years ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 (dollars in millions):

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ --- -------------- --------- - ---

 Fiscal Years Ended
 March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018
Cost of shares repurchased under share repurchase program $ 200 $ 358
Fair value of shares withheld to cover tax obligations for vested restricted share awards 7 3
Total cost of treasury shares repurchased $ 207 $ 361

Shares repurchased under share repurchase program 3,718,237 7,700,959
Shares withheld to cover tax withholding obligations 107,712 92,536
 3,825,949 7,793,495

As of March 30, 2019, the remaining availability under our $1.0 billion share repurchase program was $442 million, which expired on May 25, 2019. Share repurchases may be made in open market or privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, trading restrictions under the our insider trading policy, and other relevant factors. This program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
As of March 30, 2019, our lease commitments and contractual obligations were as follows (in millions):

------------------------------ ---------- ----- --------------- --- --------------- ----- ------------------------- ----- ----- ----- --- - -----

Fiscal Years Ending Fiscal2020 Fiscal2021-2022 Fiscal2023-2024 Fiscal 2025 andThereafter Total
Operating leases $ 431 $ 728 $ 506 $ 509 $ 2,174
Inventory Purchase Obligations 865 — — — 865
Other commitments 70 26 2 — 98
Short-term debt 630 — — — 630
Long-term debt — 954 536 446 1,936
Total $ 1,996 $ 1,708 $ 1,044 $ 955 $ 5,703

Operating lease obligations represent our equipment leases and the minimum lease rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases for our real estate locations globally. In addition to the above amounts, we are typically required to pay real estate taxes, contingent rent based on sales volume and other occupancy costs relating to our leased properties for our retail stores.
Inventory purchase obligations represent our contractual agreements relating to future purchases of inventory.
Other commitments include our non-cancelable contractual obligations related to marketing and advertising agreements, information technology agreements, and supply agreements.

52

Table of Contents

Excluded from the above commitments is $192 million of long-term liabilities related to net uncertain tax positions, due to the uncertainty of the time and nature of resolution.
The above table also excludes current liabilities (other than short-term debt) recorded as of March 30, 2019, as these items will be paid within one year, and non-current liabilities that have no cash outflows associated with them (e.g., deferred taxes).

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have not created, and are not party to, any special-purpose or off-balance sheet entities for the purpose of raising capital, incurring debt or operating our business. In addition to the commitments in the above table, our off-balance sheet commitments relating to our outstanding letters of credit were $18 million at March 30, 2019, including $1 million in letters of credit issued outside of the 2018 Credit Facility. In addition, as of March 30, 2019, bank guarantees of approximately $2 million were supported by our Hong Kong Credit Facility. We do not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements or relationships with entities that are not consolidated into our financial statements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues, expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
Effects of Inflation
We do not believe that our sales or operating results have been materially impacted by inflation during the periods presented in our financial statements. However, we may experience an increase in cost pressure from our suppliers in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our gross profit results in the periods effected.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 4]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision (benefit) for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins represent EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with t...

[refer to Note 7]:
(7) Rialto Information about homebuilding activities in the Company's urban divisions which are not economically similar to other divisions in the same geographic area is grouped under "Homebuilding Other," which is not considered a reportable segment. All prior periods have been adjusted to conform with the Company's current presentation. Evaluation of segment performance is based primarily on operating earnings (loss) before income taxes. Operations of the Company's homebuilding segments primarily include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through the Company's unconsolidated entities. Operating earnings (loss) for the homebuilding segments consist of revenues generated from the sales of homes and land, equity in earnings (loss) from unconsolidated entities and other income (expense), net, less the cost of homes sold and land sold, selling, general and administrative expenses incurred by the segment and loss due to litigation. The Company's reportable homebuilding segments and all other homebuilding operations not required to be reported separately, have homebuilding divisions located in: East: Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina and South Carolina Central: Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Tennessee and Virginia Texas: Texas West: Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington Other: Urban divisions and other homebuilding related investments, including FivePoint Operations of the Lennar Financial Services segment include primarily mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services for both buyers of the Company's homes and others. It also includes a real estate brokerage business acquired as part of the WCI transaction, which was sold subsequent to November 30, 2018. The Lennar Financial Services segment sells substantially all of the loans it originates within a short period in the secondary mortgage market,...

[see Note 8]:
Note 8. Securitization Activities Jefferies Group engages in securitization activities related to corporate loans, commercial mortgage loans, consumer loans and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. In securitization transactions, Jefferies Group transfers assets to special purpose entities ("SPEs") and acts as the placement or structuring agent for the beneficial interests sold to investors by the SPE. A significant portion of the securitization transactions are the securitization of assets issued or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. These SPEs generally meet the criteria of VIEs; however, the SPEs are generally not consolidated as Jefferies Group is not considered the primary beneficiary for these SPEs. F-47 Jefferies Group accounts for securitization transactions as sales, provided it has relinquished control over the transferred assets. Transferred assets are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in Principal transactions revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations prior to the identification and isolation for securitization. Subsequently, revenues recognized upon securitization are reflected as net underwriting revenues. Jefferies Group generally receives cash proceeds in connection with the transfer of assets to an SPE. Jefferies Group may, however, have continuing involvement with the transferred assets, which is limited to retaining one or more tranches of the securitization (primarily senior and subordinated debt securities in the form of mortgage- and other asset-backed securities or CLOs), which are included in Trading assets and are generally initially categorized as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. Jefferies Group applies fair value accounting to the securities. The following table presents activity related to Jefferies Group's securitizations that were accounted for as sales in which it had continuing involvement (in millions): ----------------------------------------- --------------------...

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Securitization Activities Jefferies Group engages in securitization activities related to corporate loans, commercial mortgage loans, consumer loans and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. In securitization transactions, Jefferies Group transfers assets to special purpose entities ("SPEs") and acts as the placement or structuring agent for the beneficial interests sold to investors by the SPE. A significant portion of the securitization transactions are the securitization of assets issued or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. These SPEs generally meet the criteria of VIEs; however, the SPEs are generally not consolidated as Jefferies Group is not considered the primary beneficiary for these SPEs. F-47 Jefferies Group accounts for securitization transactions as sales, provided it has relinquished control over the transferred assets. Transferred assets are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in Principal transactions revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations prior to the identification and isolation for securitization. Subsequently, revenues recognized upon securitization are reflected as net underwriting revenues. Jefferies Group one or more tranches of the securitization (primarily senior and subordinated debt securities in the form of mortgage- and other asset-backed securities or CLOs), which are included in Trading assets Group's securitizations that were accounted for as sales in which it had continuing involvement (in millions): ----------------------------------------- --------------------...

[refer to Note 2]:
(2) On April 17, 2018, our Board authorized a $1.25 billion share repurchase program which commenced in July 2018. The program was temporarily paused in November 2018 following the completion of the BlueLine acquisition discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. We intend to complete the program in 2019. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 20 ------- -----------------------

[refer to Note 4]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff when viewed with t...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Other Bets - Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Verily, Waymo, and X. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Access as well as licensing and R&D services through Verily. 80 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc...

[see Note 10]:
Note 10. Stockholders' Equity Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As of December 31, 2018, we are authorized to issue 5,000 million shares of Class A common stock and 4,141 million shares of Class B common stock, each with a par value of $0.000006 per share. Holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock are entitled to dividends when, as and if, declared by our board of directors, subject to the rights of the holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights to dividends. As of December 31, 2018, we have not declared any dividends and our credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. The holder of each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote, while the holder of each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. Shares of our Class B common stock are convertible into an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock and generally convert into shares of our Class A common stock upon 78 transfer. Class A common stock and Class B common stock are referred to as common stock throughout the notes to these financial statements, unless otherwise noted. As of December 31, 2018, there were 2,385 million shares and 469 million shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, respectively, issued and outstanding. Share Repurchase Program Our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program that commenced in 2017 and does not have an expiration date. During the second quarter of 2018, we completed repurchases under the original authorization to purchase up to $6.0 billion of our Class A common stock. In April 2018, the authorization for the repurchase of our Class A common stock was increased by an additional $9.0 billion, and we completed repurchases under this authorization during the fourth quarter of 2018. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased and subsequently retir...

[see Note 10]:
Note 10. Stockholders' Equity Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As of December 31, 2018, we and Class B common stock are entitled to dividends when, as and if, declared by our board of directors, subject to the rights of the holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights is entitled to one vote, while the holder of each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. Shares of our Class B common stock are convertible into an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock and generally convert into shares of our Class A common stock upon 78 transfer. Class A common stock and Class B common stock are referred to as common stock throughout the notes retir...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11. Marketable Securities 87

[see Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also Alphabet Inc...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14. Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. Our reported segments are: - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * Google - Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware (including Nest), Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure is also Alphabet Inc...

[refer to Note 4]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- when viewed with t...

[see Note 4]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff when viewed with t...

[refer to Note 13]:
Note 13. Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $12.0 billion, $10.7 billion, and $15.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $12.1 billion, $16.5 billion, and $19.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): -------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- - - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2016 2017 2018 Current: Federal and state $ 3,826 $ 12,608 $ 2,153 Foreign 966 1,746 1,251 Total 4,792 14,354 3,404 Deferred: Federal and state (70 ) 220 907 Foreign (50 ) (43 ) (134 ) Total (120 ) 177 773 Provision for income taxes $ 4,672 $ 14,531 $ 4,177 The Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 introduced significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and created new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments. 77 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collected and prepared necessary data, and interpreted the additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we made adjustments, over the course of the year, to the provisional amounts including refinements to deferred taxes. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act has been completed as of December 31, 2018. One-time transition tax The Tax Act required us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash ...

[see Note 10]:
Note 10. Stockholders' Equity Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As of December 31, 2018, we and Class B common stock are entitled to dividends when, as and if, declared by our board of directors, subject to the rights of the holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights is entitled to one vote, while the holder of each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. Shares of our Class B common stock are convertible into an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock and generally convert into shares of our Class A common stock upon 78 transfer. Class A common stock and Class B common stock are referred to as common stock throughout the notes retir...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11. Marketable Securities 87

[see Note 4]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects when viewed with t...

[See Note 4]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES, Neff and BlueLine acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- when viewed with t...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Marketable Securities 87