================================================================================
CIK: 0001792044
Company Name: Viatris Inc
Filing Date: 2023-02-27
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 13:30:55
================================================================================

ITEM 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition And Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis addresses material changes in the financial condition and results of operations of Viatris Inc. and subsidiaries for the periods presented. Unless context requires otherwise, the “Company,” “Viatris,” “our” or “we” refer to Viatris Inc. and its subsidiaries.
This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K, and our other SEC filings and public disclosures.
This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements”. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about the goals or outlooks with respect to the Company’s strategic initiatives, including but not limited to the Company’s two-phased strategic vision and potential divestitures and acquisitions; the benefits and synergies of acquisitions, divestitures or our global restructuring program, future opportunities for the Company and its products and any other statements regarding the Company’s future operations, financial or operating results, capital allocation, dividend policy and payments, stock repurchases, debt ratio and covenants, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competitions, commitments, confidence in future results, efforts to create, enhance or otherwise unlock the value of our unique global platform, and other expectations and targets for future periods. Forward-looking statements may often be identified by the use of words such as “will”, “may”, “could”, “should”, “would”, “project”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “potential”, “pipeline”, “intend”, “continue”, “target”, “seek” and variations of these words or comparable words. Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:

•the possibility that the Company may be unable to realize the intended benefits of, or achieve the intended goals or outlooks with respect to, its strategic initiatives;
•the possibility that the Company may be unable to achieve expected benefits, synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with acquisitions, divestitures, or its global restructuring program, within the expected timeframe or at all;
•impairment charges or other losses related to the divestiture or sale of businesses or assets;
•the Company’s failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results;
•the potential impact of public health outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics, including the ongoing challenges and uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic;
•actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators;
•changes in relevant laws and regulations, including but not limited to changes in tax, healthcare and pharmaceutical laws and regulations globally (including the impact of recent and potential tax reform in the U.S.);
•the ability to attract and retain key personnel;
•the Company’s liquidity, capital resources and ability to obtain financing;
•any regulatory, legal or other impediments to the Company’s ability to bring new products to market, including but not limited to “at-risk launches”;
•success of clinical trials and the Company’s or its partners’ ability to execute on new product opportunities and develop, manufacture and commercialize products;
•any changes in or difficulties with the Company’s manufacturing facilities, including with respect to inspections, remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or the ability to meet anticipated demand;
•the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government inquiries or investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on the Company;
•any significant breach of data security or data privacy or disruptions to our information technology systems;
•risks associated with having significant operations globally;
•the ability to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights;
•changes in third-party relationships;
•the effect of any changes in the Company’s or its partners’ customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns, including customer loss and business disruption being greater than expected following an acquisition or divestiture;
•the impacts of competition, including decreases in sales or revenues as a result of the loss of market exclusivity for certain products;
•changes in the economic and financial conditions of the Company or its partners;
•uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for the Company’s products;
•uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management, including but not limited to general political and economic conditions, inflation rates and global exchange rates; and
•inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements, and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and related standards or on an adjusted basis.

51

Table of Contents

For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with Viatris, see the risks described in Part I, Item 1A in this Form 10-K, and our other filings with the SEC. You can access Viatris’ filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through our website and Viatris strongly encourages you to do so. Viatris routinely posts information that may be important to investors on our website at investor.viatris.com, and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed “filed” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Viatris undertakes no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after the filing date of this Form 10-K other than as required by law.

Explanatory Note
In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, Mylan is considered the accounting acquirer of the Upjohn Business and all historical financial information of the Company prior to November 16, 2020 represents Mylan’s historical results and the Company’s thereafter.
Company Overview
Viatris is a global healthcare company formed in November 2020 whose mission is to empower people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life, regardless of geography or circumstance. Improving the ability of patients to gain access to sustainable and high-quality healthcare is our relentless pursuit. One that rests on visionary thinking, determination and best-in-class capabilities that were strategically built to remove barriers across the health spectrum and advance access globally.
Viatris’ seasoned management team is focused on ensuring that the Company is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers and other key stakeholders. With a global workforce of approximately 37,000, the Company has industry leading commercial, R&D, regulatory, manufacturing, legal and medical expertise complemented by a strong commitment to quality and an unparalleled geographic footprint to deliver high-quality medicines to patients in more than 165 countries and territories. Viatris’ portfolio comprises more than 1,400 approved molecules across a wide range of key therapeutic areas, including globally recognized iconic and key brands, generics, and complex generics, including biosimilars prior to the Biocon Biologics Transaction. The Company operates approximately 40 manufacturing sites worldwide that produce oral solid doses, injectables, complex dosage forms and APIs. Viatris is headquartered in the U.S., with global centers in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Shanghai, China and Hyderabad, India.
Viatris has four reportable segments: Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ, and Emerging Markets. The Company reports segment information on the basis of markets and geography, which reflects its focus on bringing its broad and diversified portfolio of branded, complex generics, including biosimilars prior to the Biocon Biologics Transaction, and generic products to people in markets everywhere. Our Developed Markets segment comprises our operations primarily in North America and Europe. Our Greater China segment includes our operations in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Our JANZ segment reflects our operations in Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Our Emerging Markets segment encompasses our presence in more than 125 countries with developing markets and emerging economies including in Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Middle East as well as the Company’s ARV franchise.

Certain Market and Industry Factors
The global pharmaceutical industry is a highly competitive and highly regulated industry. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. The following discussion highlights some of these key factors and market conditions.
Generic products, particularly in the U.S., generally contribute most significantly to revenues and gross margins at the time of their launch, and even more so in periods of market exclusivity, or in periods of limited generic competition. As such, the timing of new product introductions can have a significant impact on the Company’s financial results. The entrance into the market of additional competition generally has a negative impact on the volume and pricing of the affected products. Additionally, pricing is often affected by factors outside of the Company’s control. Conversely, generic products generally experience less volatility over a longer period of time in Europe as compared to the U.S., primarily due to the role of government oversight of healthcare systems in the region.
For branded products, the majority of the product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be very substantial and rapid declines in the branded product’s sales.

52

Table of Contents

Certain markets in which we do business outside of the U.S. have undergone government-imposed price reductions, and further government-imposed price reductions are expected in the future. Such measures, along with the tender systems discussed below, are likely to have a negative impact on sales and gross profit in these markets. However, government initiatives in certain markets that appear to favor generic products could help to mitigate this unfavorable effect by increasing rates of generic substitution and penetration.
Additionally, a number of markets in which we operate outside of the U.S. have implemented, or may implement, tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. Generally speaking, tender systems can have an unfavorable impact on sales and profitability. Under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids that establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. Upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive priority placement for a period of time. The tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. The loss of a tender by a third party to whom we supply API can also have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Sales continue to be negatively affected by the impact of tender systems in certain countries.
Recent Developments
Ophthalmology Acquisitions
During the first quarter of 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of Oyster Point for approximately $425 million in cash, which includes $11 per share paid to Oyster Point stockholders through a tender offer and the repayment of the principal amount of certain debt of Oyster Point. In addition to the upfront cash consideration, each Oyster Point stockholder received one non-tradeable contingent value right representing up to an additional $2 per share, or approximately $60 million in the aggregate, contingent upon Oyster Point achieving certain metrics based upon full year 2022 performance, which are expected to be determined by the end of the first quarter of 2023. Oyster Point is a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development, and commercialization of first-in-class pharmaceutical therapies to treat ophthalmic diseases.
On November 7, 2022, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining equity shares of Famy Life Sciences, a private-owned research company with a complementary portfolio of ophthalmology therapies under development, for a consideration of $281 million. The Company had previously entered into a Master Development Agreement with Famy Life Sciences on December 20, 2019 to grant the Company rights with respect to acquiring certain pharmaceutical products and had additionally acquired shares representing approximately 13.5% equity interest in Famy Life Sciences for $25.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. The transaction to acquire the remaining equity shares of Famy Life Sciences closed during the first quarter of 2023.

The accounting impact of the Oyster Point and Famy Life Sciences acquisitions and the results of the operations for Oyster Point and Famy Life Sciences will be included in our consolidated financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2023. Refer to Note 4 Acquisitions and Other Transactions included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information.

Share Repurchase Program
On February 28, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized a share repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company’s shares of common stock. Such repurchases may be made from time-to-time at the Company’s discretion and effected by any means, including but not limited to, open market repurchases, pursuant to plans in accordance with Rules 10b5-1 or 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, privately negotiated transactions (including accelerated stock repurchase programs) or any combination of such methods as the Company deems appropriate. The program does not have an expiration date. During 2022, the Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock under the share repurchase program. In January and February 2023, the Company repurchased approximately 21.2 million shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $250 million. The share repurchase program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock.

53

Table of Contents

International Operations
The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine did not have a material impact on our business as the combined total revenues for both countries were approximately 1% of consolidated total revenues during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. However, trade controls, sanctions, supply chain and staffing challenges and other economic considerations related to the conflict have impacted our operations in these markets and may negatively impact our financial results in future periods. In addition, a significant escalation or expansion of the conflict’s current scope may have a negative impact on our operations and financial results in future periods. For a further discussion of the risks we encounter in our business, including the risks of conducting our business internationally, please refer to Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Under ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters (“ASC 830”), a highly inflationary economy is one that has cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. Effective April 1, 2022, we classified Turkey as highly inflationary and began to utilize the U.S. dollar as our functional currency in Turkey, which historically utilized the Turkish lira as the functional currency. Application of the guidance in ASC 830 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2022. The impacted net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 and total assets at December 31, 2022 represented less than 1% of our consolidated net sales and total assets, respectively.

Biocon Biologics Transaction
On February 27, 2022, Viatris entered into a definitive agreement with Biocon Biologics to contribute its biosimilars portfolio to Biocon Biologics. The transaction subsequently closed on November 29, 2022, creating what Viatris expects to be a unique fully vertically integrated global biosimilars leader. Under the terms of the Biocon Agreement, Viatris received $3 billion in consideration in the form of a $2 billion cash payment, adjusted as set forth in the Biocon Agreement, and approximately $1 billion of CCPS representing a stake of approximately 12.9% (on a fully diluted basis) in Biocon Biologics. Viatris also is entitled to $335 million of additional cash payments in 2024. In addition, Viatris and Biocon Biologics have agreed to a closing working capital target of $250 million. An amount of cash equal to all or a portion of the closing working capital target may become payable to Biocon Biologics in connection with certain events in the future, depending on the valuations attributable to such events. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company recognized a gain on sale of approximately $1.75 billion and has not recognized the results of the business in its consolidated financial statements subsequent to November 29, 2022.

Viatris and Biocon Biologics also entered an agreement pursuant to which Viatris is providing commercialization and certain other transition services on behalf of Biocon Biologics, including billings, collections and the remittance of rebates, to ensure business continuity for patients, customers and colleagues. The term of the transition services agreement is generally up to two years. Under the transition services agreement, Viatris is entitled to be reimbursed for its costs (subject to certain caps) plus a markup.

2020 Restructuring Program
During the fourth quarter of 2020, Viatris announced a significant global restructuring program in order to achieve synergies and ensure that the organization is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders. As part of the restructuring, the Company is optimizing its commercial capabilities and enabling functions, and closing, downsizing or divesting certain manufacturing facilities globally that are deemed to be no longer viable either due to surplus capacity, challenging market dynamics or a shift in its product portfolio toward more complex products.
For the committed restructuring actions, the Company expects to incur total pre-tax charges of up to approximately $1.4 billion. Such charges are expected to include up to approximately $450 million of non-cash charges mainly related to accelerated depreciation and asset impairment charges, including inventory write-offs. The remaining estimated cash costs of up to approximately $950 million are expected to be primarily related to severance and employee benefits expense, as well as other costs, including those related to contract terminations and other plant disposal costs. In addition, management believes the potential annual savings related to these committed restructuring activities to be up to approximately $900 million once fully implemented, with most of these savings expected to improve operating cash flow.
Impact of the Coronavirus Pandemic
As a leading global pharmaceutical company, Viatris is committed to continue doing its part in support of public health needs amid the evolving COVID-19 pandemic. The Company’s priorities remain protecting the health and safety of our workforce, continuing to produce critically needed medicines, deploying resources and expertise in the fight against COVID-19

54

Table of Contents

through potential prevention and treatment efforts, supporting the communities in which we operate and maintaining the health of our overall business. In addressing the COVID-19 pandemic and helping meet urgent global health needs, tens of thousands of dedicated Viatris employees across the world have worked to help ensure a stable supply of much needed treatments.

Because protecting the health and safety of our workforce remains paramount, we continue to align with government directives and the advice of relevant international, national and local health authorities at every Viatris facility around the world. As a result, some of our customer facing field personnel continue on a remote engagement model to ensure continued support for healthcare professionals, patient care and access to needed products and we have continued to take extra precautions at our manufacturing facilities to protect our site personnel and operations. All of our manufacturing facilities, and those of our key global partners, are currently operational and, at this time, we are not experiencing any significant disruptions.

The global spread of COVID-19 has created and continues to create volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption affecting the markets we serve, including impacts on supply chain partners, third-party manufacturers, logistics providers and other vendors. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business, operations and financial results in future periods will depend on numerous evolving factors that are beyond our control and that we may not be able to accurately predict, and could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Due to the Company’s ability to generate significant cash flows from operations, combined with our access to borrowing facilities and capital markets, we believe that we currently have, and will maintain, the ability to meet foreseeable liquidity needs.

Financial Summary
The table below is a summary of the Company’s financial results for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year period:

--------------------------------------- ----------------------- -------- ---- --------- ------ -------- ------- - ---------
 Year Ended December 31,
(In millions, except per share amounts) 2022 2021 Change
Total revenues $ 16,262.7 $ 17,886.3 $ (1,623.6)
Gross profit 6,497.0 5,575.5 921.5
Earnings (loss) from operations 1,614.9 (34.0) 1,648.9
Net earnings (loss) 2,078.6 (1,269.1) 3,347.7
Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.71 $ (1.05) $ 2.76

A detailed discussion of the Company’s financial results can be found below in the section titled “Results of Operations.” As part of this discussion, we also report sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measures of “constant currency” net sales and total revenues. These measures provide information on the change in net sales and total revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and current period. The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. We routinely evaluate our net sales and total revenues performance at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating a period-to-period comparison of our operational activities, and believe that this presentation also provides useful information to investors for the same reason.
More information about non-GAAP measures used by the Company as part of this discussion, including adjusted cost of sales, adjusted gross margins, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EBITDA (all of which are defined below) are discussed further in this Part II. Item 7 under Results of Operations and Results of Operations — Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.

55

Table of Contents

Results of Operations

2022 Compared to 2021

------------------------------- ----------------------- -------- ---- -------- -------- -------- ------------------------ - ------------------------------- ------- ------------------------------ - -------- ---- -------- --- -
 Year Ended December 31,
(In millions, except %s) 2022 2021 % Change 2022 Currency Impact (1) 2022 Constant Currency Revenues Constant Currency % Change (2)
Net sales
Developed Markets $ 9,768.9 $ 10,428.7 (6) % $ 666.6 $ 10,435.5 — %
Greater China 2,201.2 2,212.8 (1) % 73.8 2,275.1 3 %
JANZ 1,632.4 2,027.4 (19) % 230.8 1,863.2 (8) %
Emerging Markets 2,615.6 3,144.7 (17) % 264.7 2,880.2 (8) %
Total net sales 16,218.1 17,813.6 (9) % 1,235.9 17,454.0 (2) %

Other revenues (3) 44.6 72.7 (39) % 2.9 47.5 (35) %
Consolidated total revenues (4) $ 16,262.7 $ 17,886.3 (9) % $ 1,238.8 $ 17,501.5 (2) %

____________
(1)Currency impact is shown as unfavorable (favorable).
(2)The constant currency percentage change is derived by translating net sales or revenues for the current period at prior year comparative period exchange rates, and in doing so shows the percentage change from 2022 constant currency net sales or revenues to the corresponding amount in the prior year.
(3)For the year ended December 31, 2022, other revenues in Developed Markets, JANZ, and Emerging Markets were approximately $21.8 million, $1.4 million, and $21.4 million, respectively.
(4)Amounts exclude intersegment revenue which eliminates on a consolidated basis.
Total Revenues
For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company reported total revenues of $16.26 billion, compared to $17.89 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing a decrease of $1.62 billion, or 9%. Total revenues include both net sales and other revenues from third parties. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $16.22 billion, compared to $17.81 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing a decrease of $1.60 billion, or 9%. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $44.6 million, compared to $72.7 million for the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $28.1 million.
The decrease in net sales was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of approximately $1.24 billion, or 7%, primarily reflecting changes in the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of subsidiaries in countries within the EU, Japan and India. On a constant currency basis, the decrease in net sales was approximately $359.6 million, or 2% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year period. This decrease was partially due to approximately $63.5 million related to the year over year impact of the sale of the biosimilars business on November 29, 2022. The decrease was also due to competition on certain key U.S. products representing a decline of approximately $188 million, and approximately $591 million as a result of other base business erosion. The decrease in net sales from existing products was partially offset by approximately $483.1 million of new product sales, primarily in the U.S. New product sales include new products launched in 2022 and the carryover impact of new products, including business development, launched within the last twelve months.

From time to time, a limited number of our products may represent a significant portion of our net sales, gross profit and net earnings. Generally, this is due to the timing of new product introductions, seasonality, and the amount, if any, of additional competition in the market. Our top ten products in terms of net sales, in the aggregate, represented 33% for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Net sales are derived from our four reporting segments: Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ and Emerging Markets.

56

Table of Contents

Developed Markets Segment
Net sales from Developed Markets decreased by $659.8 million or 6% during the year ended December 31, 2022 when compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily the result of unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of approximately $666.6 million, or 6%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $6.8 million, or less than 1%, when compared to the prior year. Net sales within North America totaled approximately $4.34 billion and net sales within Europe totaled approximately $5.43 billion. The increase in constant currency net sales was driven by new product sales, including lenalidomide, unbranded insulin glargine and Semglee®, and cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion in the U.S., and higher volumes of existing products in Europe. This increase was partially offset by the year over year impact of the sale of the biosimilars business, and lower net sales of existing products in the U.S., including Miacalcin®, Wixela Inhub® and Perforomist®, as a result of lower pricing and, to a lesser extent, volumes due to additional competition.

Greater China Segment
Net sales from Greater China decreased by $11.6 million, or less than 1%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 when compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily the result of the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of approximately $73.8 million, or 3%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $62.2 million, or 3%, when compared to the prior year, driven primarily by increased volumes of existing products.
JANZ Segment
Net sales from JANZ decreased by $395.0 million or 19% for the year ended December 31, 2022 when compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily the result of the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of approximately $230.8 million, or 11%. Constant currency net sales decreased by approximately $164.2 million, or 8%, when compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to lower net sales of existing products mainly driven by lower pricing in Japan as a result of government price reductions and additional competition, and lower volumes of existing products in Australia. These decreases were partially offset by higher volumes of existing products in Japan, including for Celebrex®.
Emerging Markets Segment
Net sales from Emerging Markets decreased by $529.1 million or 17% for the year ended December 31, 2022 when compared to the prior year. This decrease was partially driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of approximately $264.7 million, or 8%. Constant currency net sales decreased by approximately $264.4 million, or 8%, when compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by lower volumes of COVID-19 related products in India, primarily remdesivir and ambisome, and lower sales of ARV products as a result of competitive market conditions. These decreases were partially offset by higher volumes in certain markets in Asia.
Cost of Sales and Gross Profit
Cost of sales decreased from $12.31 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 to $9.77 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. Cost of sales was primarily impacted by purchase accounting related amortization of the step-up in the fair value of acquired inventory of $1.19 billion in the prior year period, lower restructuring costs in the current year related to the 2020 restructuring program versus the prior year period, and lower costs associated with other special items, which are described further in the section titled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $6.50 billion and gross margins were 40%. For the year ended December 31, 2021, gross profit was $5.58 billion and gross margins were 31%. This change is primarily related to the decrease in cost of sales. Adjusted gross margins were approximately 59% for the year ended December 31, 2022, essentially flat when compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.

57

Table of Contents

A reconciliation between cost of sales, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted cost of sales and adjusted gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 is as follows:

-------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ---- --------- - --------
 Year Ended December 31,
(In millions, except %s) 2022 2021
U.S. GAAP cost of sales $ 9,765.7 $ 12,310.8
Deduct:
Purchase accounting amortization and other related items (2,721.2) (4,039.7)
Acquisition and divestiture related costs (50.0) (13.9)
Restructuring and related costs (56.8) (534.7)
Share-based compensation expense (1.5) (2.3)
Other special items (255.2) (333.0)
Adjusted cost of sales $ 6,681.0 $ 7,387.2

Adjusted gross profit (a) $ 9,581.7 $ 10,499.1

Adjusted gross margin (a) 59 % 59 %

____________
(a)Adjusted gross profit is calculated as total revenues less adjusted cost of sales. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues.
Operating Expenses
Research & Development Expense
R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $662.2 million, compared to $681.0 million for the prior year, a decrease of $18.8 million. This decrease was primarily due to the impact of synergies. Certain reclassifications were made to conform the prior period consolidated financial statements to the current period presentation. Upfront and milestone-related charges in connection with collaboration and licensing arrangements previously presented in R&D expense are now presented in Acquired IPR&D.
Acquired IPR&D
Acquired IPR&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $36.4 million, compared to $70.1 million for the prior year, a decrease of $33.7 million. The decrease was primarily due to an upfront licensing payment in the prior year of $40.0 million for the development of an ophthalmic product. This was partially offset by an upfront licensing payment of $20.0 million to Calliditas Therapeutics AB related to Nefecon® recorded during the current year.
Selling, General & Administrative Expense
SG&A expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $4.18 billion, compared to $4.53 billion for the prior year, a decrease of $350.1 million. The decrease was primarily due to lower restructuring costs of approximately $322.8 million related to the 2020 restructuring program and the impact of synergies. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher integration costs as a result of transitioning certain support services from Pfizer, costs incurred in conjunction with the Biocon Biologics Transaction, and a goodwill impairment charge of $117.0 million related to the potential divestiture of the Upjohn Distributor Markets.

58

Table of Contents

Litigation Settlements and Other Contingencies, Net
The following table includes the (gains) losses recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively:

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---- ---- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
(In millions) 2022 2021
Contingent consideration adjustment (primarily related to Respiratory Delivery Platform) $ 11.1 $ 50.3
Litigation settlements, net (6.7) 278.9
Total litigation settlements and other contingencies, net $ 4.4 $ 329.2

Litigation settlements in 2021 included a $264.0 million charge for the EpiPen® related settlement.
Interest Expense
Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 totaled $592.4 million, compared to $636.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, a decrease of $43.8 million. The decrease is primarily due to the impact of debt repayments.
Other (Income) Expense, Net
Other (income) expense, net includes gains and losses from divestitures, equity affiliates, foreign exchange, expense (income) related to post-employment benefit plans, TSA income, and interest and dividend income. Other income, net for the year ended December 31, 2022 totaled $1.79 billion, compared to $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by the gain from the Biocon Biologics Transaction of $1.75 billion and income of $17.7 million related to reimbursement for transition services provided to Biocon Biologics subsequent to the closing of the Biocon Biologics Transaction. The costs related to the transition services are included in SG&A and R&D. In addition, the prior year was negatively impacted by losses of $61.9 million from the Company’s clean energy investments, which did not recur in 2022 as all of the clean energy investments wound down operations at the end 2021.

Income Tax Provision
For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recognized an income tax provision of $734.6 million, compared to an income tax provision of $604.7 million for the prior year, a change in the provision of $129.9 million. The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2022 was negatively impacted by the gain from the Biocon Biologics Transaction. The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2021 was negatively impacted by the tax rates applied to the reversal of intercompany profit in inventory reserve which was recorded on the opening balance sheet as part of the Combination. This reserve eliminates the profit in inventory related to intercompany transactions and changes to this reserve occur as products are sold to third parties. Also impacting the income tax provision for both periods was the changing mix of income earned in jurisdictions with differing tax rates.

2021 Compared to 2020
Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 are not included in this Form 10-K, and can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021.

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Whenever the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures, we provide a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Investors and other readers are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure and should consider non-GAAP measures only as a supplement to, not as a substitute for or as a superior measure to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, since these are not measures determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning across companies, or as prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures or measures with the same title used by other companies.

59

Table of Contents

Management uses these measures internally for forecasting, budgeting, measuring its operating performance, and incentive-based awards. Primarily due to acquisitions, divestitures and other significant events which may impact comparability of our periodic operating results, we believe that an evaluation of our ongoing operations (and comparisons of our current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of our financial results was limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures are useful supplemental information for our investors and when considered together with our U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our operations. The financial performance of the Company is measured by senior management, in part, using adjusted metrics as described below, along with other performance metrics. The Company’s use of such non-GAAP measures is governed by an adjusted reporting policy maintained by the Company and such non-GAAP measures are reviewed in detail with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Adjusted Cost of Sales and Adjusted Gross Margin
We use the non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted cost of sales” and the corresponding non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted gross margin.” The principal items excluded from adjusted cost of sales include restructuring, acquisition related and other special items and purchase accounting related amortization, which are described in greater detail below.
Adjusted Net Earnings
Adjusted net earnings is a non-GAAP financial measure and provides an alternative view of performance used by management. Management believes that, primarily due to acquisitions, divestitures and other significant events, an evaluation of the Company’s ongoing operations (and comparisons of its current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of its financial results were limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management believes that adjusted net earnings is an important internal financial metric related to the ongoing operating performance of the Company, and is therefore useful to investors and that their understanding of our performance is enhanced by this measure. Actual internal and forecasted operating results and annual budgets used by management include adjusted net earnings.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA
EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company believes are appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate the Company’s ability to comply with financial debt covenants and assess the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness. The Company also believes that adjusted EBITDA better focuses management on the Company’s underlying operational results and true business performance and, is used, in part, for management’s incentive compensation. We calculate EBITDA as U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) adjusted for net contribution attributable to equity method investments, income tax provision (benefit), interest expense and depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is further adjusted for share-based compensation expense, litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, and restructuring, impairment of long-lived assets, acquisition and divestiture related and other special items to determine adjusted EBITDA. These adjustments are generally permitted under our credit agreement in calculating adjusted EBITDA for determining compliance with our debt covenants.
The significant items excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EBITDA include:
Purchase Accounting Amortization and Other Related Items
The ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions of both businesses and assets is excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EBITDA. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets, inventory step-up, property, plant and equipment step-up, and intangible asset impairment charges, including for in-process research and development, and impairments of goodwill. For the acquisition of businesses accounted for under the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations, these purchase accounting impacts are excluded regardless of the financing method used for the acquisitions, including the use of cash, long-term debt, the issuance of common stock, contingent consideration or any combination thereof.

60

Table of Contents

Upfront and Milestone-Related R&D Expenses
Beginning in 2022, upfront and milestone-related R&D expenses related to collaboration and licensing arrangements made prior to regulatory approval of a development product are no longer excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. For purposes of comparability, the prior years’ non-GAAP financial measures have been updated to reflect this change. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, this resulted in a decrease in adjusted EBITDA of $70.1 million and $42.5 million, respectively, and a decrease in adjusted net earnings of $57.8 million and $34.6 million, respectively.

Fair Value Adjustments, Including Contingent Consideration
The impact of changes to the fair value of assets and liabilities, including contingent and deferred consideration, and the related accretion income or expense are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA because they are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations due to the variability of the amounts and the lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing and management believes their exclusion is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business.
Share-based Compensation Expense
Share-based compensation expense is excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. Our share-based compensation programs have become increasingly weighted toward performance-based compensation, which leads to variability and to a lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing of amounts incurred. As such, management believes the exclusion of such amounts on an ongoing basis is helpful to understanding the underlying operational performance of the business.

Restructuring, Acquisition and Divestiture Related, and Other Special Items
Costs related to restructuring, acquisition and integration activities and other actions are excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA, as applicable. These amounts include items such as:
•Costs related to formal restructuring programs and actions, including costs associated with facilities to be closed or divested, employee separation costs, impairment charges, accelerated depreciation, incremental manufacturing variances, equipment relocation costs, decommissioning and other restructuring related costs;
•Certain acquisition and divestitures related remediation and integration and planning costs, as well as other costs associated with acquisitions and divestitures such as advisory and legal fees, certain financing related costs, certain reimbursements related to the Company’s obligation to reimburse Pfizer for certain financing and transaction related costs under the BCA and SDA, certain other TSA related set-up and exit costs, and other business transformation and/or optimization initiatives, which are not part of a formal restructuring program, including employee separation and post-employment costs;
•The pre-tax loss of the Company’s clean energy investments, whose activities qualify for income tax credits under the Code; only included in adjusted net earnings is the net tax effect of the entity’s activities;
•Other costs, incurred from time to time, related to certain special events or activities that lead to gains or losses, including, but not limited to, incremental manufacturing variances, asset write-downs, including other-than-temporary impairments of investments in equity or debt instruments, or liability adjustments;
•Certain costs to further develop and optimize our global enterprise resource planning systems, operations and supply chain;
•Gains or losses from divestitures, including impairments of held of sale assets; and
•The impact of changes related to uncertain tax positions and certain impacts related to the Combination are excluded from adjusted cost of sales and adjusted net earnings. In addition, tax adjustments to adjusted earnings are recorded to present items on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of adjusted net earnings.
The Company has undertaken restructurings and other optimization initiatives of differing types, scope and amount during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA because it believes it is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business.

61

Table of Contents

Litigation Settlements, Net
Charges and gains related to legal matters, such as those discussed in Note 20 Litigation included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K are generally excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company made in the normal course of our business are not excluded.
Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings (Loss) to Adjusted Net Earnings
A reconciliation between net earnings (loss) as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted net earnings for the periods shown follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ---- ---- ------- - --------- ------- - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
(In millions) 2022 2021 2020
U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) $ 2,078.6 $ (1,269.1) $ (669.9)
Purchase accounting related amortization (primarily included in cost of sales) (a) 2,721.3 4,039.7 1,933.6
Impairment of goodwill related to assets held for sale (a) 117.0 — —
Litigation settlements and other contingencies, net 4.4 329.2 107.8
Interest expense (primarily amortization of premiums and discounts on long term debt) (48.7) (53.8) 12.6
Clean energy investments pre-tax loss — 61.9 48.4

Acquisition and divestiture related costs (primarily included in SG&A) (b) 475.7 234.6 613.6

Biocon Biologics gain on divestiture (included in other (income) expense, net) (1,754.1) — —
Restructuring related costs (c) 86.9 899.4 323.1
Share-based compensation expense 116.5 111.2 79.2
Other special items included in:
Cost of sales (d) 255.2 333.0 438.1
Research and development expense (e) 1.0 13.1 4.7
Selling, general and administrative expense (f) 68.8 49.5 44.6
Other (income) expense, net (3.8) (8.0) (16.8)
Tax effect of the above items and other income tax related items (g) (41.7) (330.7) (581.8)
Adjusted net earnings $ 4,077.1 $ 4,410.0 $ 2,337.2

Significant items for the year ended December 31, 2022 include the following:
(a)    For the year ended December 31, 2022, charges include an intangible asset charge of approximately $172.9 million to write down the disposal group to fair value, less cost to sell, and a related goodwill impairment charge of $117.0 million for the potential divestiture of the Upjohn Distributor Markets.
(b)    Acquisition and divestiture related costs consist primarily of transaction costs including legal and consulting fees and integration activities.
(c)    For the year ended December 31, 2022, charges include approximately $56.8 million in cost of sales, approximately $1.4 million in R&D, and approximately $28.7 million in SG&A. Refer to Note 18 Restructuring included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
(d)    For the year ended December 31, 2022, charges include incremental manufacturing variances at plants in the 2020 restructuring program of approximately $118.4 million and inventory reserves related to the potential divestiture of the Upjohn Distributor Markets of approximately $44.8 million.
(e)    Beginning in 2022, upfront and milestone-related R&D expenses related to collaboration and licensing arrangements made prior to regulatory approval of a development product are no longer excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. For purposes of comparability, the prior years’ non-GAAP financial measures have been updated to reflect this change. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, this resulted in a decrease in adjusted EBITDA of $70.1 million and $42.5 million, respectively, and a decrease in adjusted net earnings of $57.8 million and $34.6 million, respectively.
(f)    For the year ended December 31, 2022, charges include costs of $39.5 million related to the potential divestiture of the Upjohn Distributor Markets.
(g)    Adjusted for changes for uncertain tax positions and for certain impacts of the Combination.

62

Table of Contents

Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings (Loss) to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA

Below is a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year periods:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------- ---- ------- ---- --------- ------- - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
(In millions) 2022 2021 2020
U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) $ 2,078.6 $ (1,269.1) $ (669.9)
Add / (deduct) adjustments:
Net contribution attributable to equity method investments — 61.9 48.4
Income tax provision (benefit) 734.6 604.7 (51.3)
Interest expense (a) 592.4 636.2 497.8
Depreciation and amortization (b) 3,027.6 4,506.5 2,216.1
EBITDA $ 6,433.2 $ 4,540.2 $ 2,041.1
Add / (deduct) adjustments:
Share-based compensation expense 116.4 111.2 79.2
Litigation settlements and other contingencies, net 4.4 329.2 107.8
Biocon Biologics gain on divestiture (1,754.1) — —
Impairment of goodwill related to assets held for sale 117.0 — —
Restructuring, acquisition and divestiture related and other special items (c) 859.9 1,375.4 1,383.5
Adjusted EBITDA $ 5,776.8 $ 6,356.0 $ 3,611.6

(a)    Includes amortization of premiums and discounts on long-term debt.
(b)    Includes purchase accounting related amortization.
(c)    See items detailed and updates to the non-GAAP financial measures in the Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings (Loss) to Adjusted Net Earnings.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary source of liquidity is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $2.95 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. We believe that net cash provided by operating activities and available liquidity will continue to allow us to meet our needs for working capital, capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on debt obligations, and dividend payments. Nevertheless, our ability to satisfy our working capital requirements and debt service obligations, and fund planned capital expenditures, share repurchases, or dividend payments, will substantially depend upon our future operating performance (which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions), and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $64.3 million to $2.95 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $3.02 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Net cash provided by operating activities is derived from net earnings (loss) adjusted for non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash, including changes in cash primarily reflecting the timing of cash collections from customers, payments to vendors and employees and tax payments in the ordinary course of business.
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was principally due to the timing of cash payments and collections, including payments for litigation matters, and due to deal-related expenses, primarily taxes and transaction costs, associated with the Biocon Biologics Transaction. These increases were partially offset by lower payments for restructuring activities and other special items, and the impact of synergies.

63

Table of Contents

Investing Activities
Net cash from investing activities was $1.52 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $117.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $1.64 billion.
In 2022, significant items in investing activities included the following:
•proceeds from the sale of assets of $1.95 billion related to the Biocon Biologics Transaction; and
•capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $406.0 million. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized, capital expenditures for the 2023 calendar year are expected to be approximately $400 million to $500 million.
In 2021, significant items in investing activities included the following:
•cash received from acquisitions, net totaling approximately $277.0 million related to additional target cash balances received from Pfizer subsequent to the closing of the Combination;
•proceeds from the sale of assets of $96.7 million, primarily related to a group of OTC products in the U.S.; and
•capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $457.2 million.
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $3.88 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $3.01 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $865.9 million.
In 2022, significant items in financing activities included the following:
•repayments of Senior Notes at maturity of approximately $1.79 billion, consisting of the 0.816% Euro Senior Notes and the 1.125% Senior Notes;
•borrowings and repayments under the 2021 Revolving Facility of $1.88 billion;
•net repayments of short-term borrowings of $1.49 billion;
•cash dividends paid of $581.6 million; and
•proceeds of $19.3 million related to cash collected on behalf of Biocon Biologics.
In 2021, significant items in financing activities included the following:
•long-term debt payments of approximately $4.20 billion, consisting of the redemption of $2.25 billion of the 3.150% Senior Notes due 2021, repayment of $1.35 billion of borrowings under the 2020 Revolving Facility and the 2021 Revolving Facility, and repayment of $600.0 million of the USD Term Loan;
•long-term borrowings of $1.71 billion, consisting of borrowings of $1.35 billion under the 2020 Revolving Facility and the 2021 Revolving Facility, and borrowings of $360.0 million under the YEN Term Loan;
•net short-term borrowings of $392.1 million;
•deferred non-contingent payments for product rights totaling approximately $456.0 million primarily related to the acquisition of Aspen’s thrombosis product portfolio in Europe; and
•cash dividends paid of $399.0 million.
Refer to the consolidated statements of cash flows in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional details on other significant sources and uses of cash during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.

64

Table of Contents

Capital Resources
Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.26 billion at December 31, 2022, and the majority of these funds are held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. In early 2023, approximately $700 million of cash was used to finance the acquisitions of Oyster Point and Famy Life Sciences. The Company anticipates having sufficient liquidity, including existing borrowing capacity under the 2021 Revolving Facility, Commercial Paper Program and the Receivables Facility and the Note Securitization Facility combined with cash to be generated from operations, to fund foreseeable cash needs without requiring the repatriation of non-U.S. cash.
In July 2021, Viatris entered into (i) the YEN Term Loan Facility and (ii) the 2021 Revolving Facility with various syndicates of banks. The YEN Term Loan Facility and the 2021 Revolving Facility will mature in July 2026.
The Company has access to $4.0 billion under the 2021 Revolving Facility. Up to $1.65 billion of the 2021 Revolving Facility may be used to support borrowings under our Commercial Paper Program. As of December 31, 2022, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program and the 2021 Revolving Facility.
In addition, MPI, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has access to $400 million under the Receivables Facility, which expires in April 2025. As of December 31, 2022, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Receivables Facility.
In August 2020, the Company entered into the Note Securitization Facility for borrowings up to $200 million, which was amended to extend the term to August 2023. As of December 31, 2022, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Note Securitization Facility.

Under the terms of each of the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility, certain of our accounts receivable secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities. The amount that we may borrow at a given point in time is determined based on the amount of qualifying accounts receivable that are present at such point in time. Borrowings outstanding under the Receivables Facility bear interest at the applicable base rate plus 0.775%, and under the Note Securitization Facility at the relevant base rate plus 0.85% and are included as a component of short-term borrowings, while the accounts receivable securing these obligations remain as a component of accounts receivable, net, in our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the agreements governing the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility contain various customary affirmative and negative covenants, and customary default and termination provisions.

We have entered into accounts receivable factoring agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our non-U.S. accounts receivable. These transactions are accounted for as sales and result in a reduction in accounts receivable because the agreements transfer effective control over and risk related to the receivables to the buyers. Our factoring agreements do not allow for recourse in the event of uncollectibility, and we do not retain any interest in the underlying accounts receivable once sold. We derecognized $34.7 million and $29.6 million of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 under these factoring arrangements, respectively.
We are continuously evaluating the potential acquisition of products, as well as companies, as a strategic part of our future growth. Consequently, we may utilize current cash reserves or incur additional indebtedness to finance any such acquisitions, which could impact future liquidity. Also, on an ongoing basis, we review our operations including the evaluation of potential divestitures of products and businesses as part of our future strategy. Any divestitures could impact future liquidity. In addition, we plan to continue to explore various other ways to create, enhance or otherwise unlock the value of the Company’s unique global platform in order to create shareholder value.
In November 2022, the Company provided an update on the strategic priorities announced in February 2022, including identifying the following businesses no longer considered core to its future strategy that the Company intends to divest:
•OTC;
•API (while retaining some selective development API capabilities);
•Women’s health care, primarily related to our oral and injectable contraceptives. This does not include all of our women’s health care related products; as an example, our Xulane® product in the U.S. is excluded; and
•Upjohn Distributor Markets.

For information regarding our dividends paid and declared and share repurchase program, refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

65

Table of Contents

Long-term Debt Maturity
For information regarding our debt agreements and mandatory minimum repayments remaining on the outstanding notional amount of long-term debt at December 31, 2022, refer to Note 11 Debt in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
The YEN Term Loan Facility and the 2021 Revolving Facility contain customary affirmative covenants for facilities of this type, including among others, covenants pertaining to the delivery of financial statements, notices of default and certain material events, maintenance of corporate existence and rights, property, and insurance and compliance with laws, as well as customary negative covenants for facilities of this type, including a financial covenant, which set the Maximum Leverage Ratio as of the end of any quarter at 4.25 to 1.00 for each quarter ending after June 30, 2021 through and including June 30, 2022, 4.0 to 1.00 for each quarter ending after June 30, 2022 through and including December 31, 2022 and 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter, except in circumstances as defined in the related credit agreement, and other limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary indebtedness, liens, mergers and certain other fundamental changes, investments and loans, acquisitions, transactions with affiliates, payments of dividends and other restricted payments and changes in our lines of business.
The Company is in compliance with its covenants at December 31, 2022 and expects to remain in compliance for the next twelve months.
Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information
Viatris Inc. is the issuer of the outstanding Registered Upjohn Notes, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc.
Following the Combination, Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. is the issuer of the Utah U.S. Dollar Notes, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Viatris Inc. and Mylan II B.V.
Mylan Inc. is the issuer of the Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan II B.V., Viatris Inc. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc.

The respective obligations of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. as guarantors of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the applicable guarantor and rank pari passu in right of payment with all of such guarantor’s existing and future senior unsecured obligations that are not expressly subordinated to such guarantor’s guarantee of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes, rank senior in right of payment to any future obligations of such guarantor that are expressly subordinated to such guarantor’s guarantee of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes, and are effectively subordinated to such guarantor’s existing and future secured obligations to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such obligations. Such obligations are structurally subordinated to all of the existing and future liabilities, including trade payables, of the existing and future subsidiaries of such guarantor that do not guarantee the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes.
The guarantees by Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. under the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes will terminate under certain customary circumstances, each as described in the applicable indenture, including: (1) a sale or disposition of the applicable guarantor in a transaction that complies with the applicable indenture such that such guarantor ceases to be a subsidiary of the issuer of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes; (2) legal defeasance or covenant defeasance or if the issuer’s obligations under the applicable indenture are discharged; (3) with respect to the Utah U.S. Dollar Notes, the earlier to occur of (i) with respect to the guarantee provided by Mylan Inc., (x) the release of Utah Acquisition Sub Inc.’s guarantee under all applicable Mylan Inc. Debt (as defined in the applicable indenture) and (y) Mylan Inc. no longer having any obligations in respect of any Mylan Inc. Debt and (ii) with respect to the guarantee provided by Mylan II B.V., (x) the release of Mylan II B.V.’s guarantee under all applicable Triggering Indebtedness (as defined in the applicable indenture) and (y) the issuer and/or borrower of the applicable Triggering Indebtedness no longer having any obligations with respect to such Triggering Indebtedness; (4) with respect to the guarantees provided by Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V. of the Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the applicable indenture, such guarantor ceasing to be a guarantor or obligor in respect of any Triggering Indebtedness; and (5) with respect to the outstanding Registered Upjohn Notes, (a) upon the applicable guarantor no longer being an issuer or guarantor in respect of (i) Mylan Notes (as defined in the indenture governing the outstanding Registered Upjohn Notes) that have an aggregate principal amount in excess of $500.0 million or (ii) any Triggering Indebtedness; in each case, other than in respect of indebtedness or guarantees, as applicable, that are being concurrently released; or (b) upon receipt of the consent of holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes of such series in accordance with the indenture governing the outstanding Registered Upjohn Notes.

66

Table of Contents

The guarantee obligations of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. under the Senior U.S. Dollar Notes are subject to certain limitations and terms similar to those applicable to other guarantees of similar instruments, including that (i) the guarantees are subject to fraudulent transfer and conveyance laws and (ii) each guarantee is limited in amount to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the applicable guarantor without rendering the guarantee, as it relates to such guarantor, voidable under applicable fraudulent transfer and conveyance laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
The following table presents unaudited summarized financial information of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. on a combined basis as of and for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation. This unaudited combined summarized financial information is presented utilizing the equity method of accounting.

----------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ----------------- -------- - -----
 Combined Summarized Balance Sheet Information of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V.
(In millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
ASSETS
Current assets $ 996.3 $ 280.2
Non-current assets 61,972.6 60,298.0

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities 26,631.5 23,619.9
Non-current liabilities 15,265.2 16,465.6

------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---------------------------- --------- - -
 Combined Summarized Income Statement Information of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V.
(In millions) Year Ended December 31, 2022 Year Ended December 31, 2021
Revenues $ — $ —
Gross profit — —
Loss (earnings) from operations (1,132.4) (1,023.9)
Net earnings (loss) 2,078.6 (1,269.1)

Other Commitments
The Company is involved in various disputes, governmental and/or regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings, tax proceedings and litigation matters, both in the U.S. and abroad, that arise from time to time, some of which could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, and/or criminal charges against the Company. These matters are often complex and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. We have approximately $203 million accrued for legal contingencies at December 31, 2022.
While the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses with respect to the claims asserted against it and the assumed legal matters referenced above, and intends to vigorously defend its position, the process of resolving these matters is inherently uncertain and may develop over a long period of time, and so it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of any such matter. It is possible that an unfavorable resolution of any of the ongoing matters could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price.
In conjunction with the Combination, Viatris entered into a TSA with Pfizer pursuant to which each party provides certain limited transition services to the other party generally for an initial period of 24 months from the closing date of the Combination. In addition to the monthly service fees under the TSA, Viatris agreed to reimburse Pfizer for fifty percent of the costs, up to the first $380 million incurred, to establish and wind down the TSA services. Viatris will be required to fully reimburse Pfizer for total costs in excess of $380 million. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company incurred $54.5 million and $30.4 million, respectively, related to this provision of the TSA, and approximately $138.0 million during the period beginning on the closing date of the Combination and ended December 31, 2022. We expect to incur future costs related to the completion of the services. As of December 31, 2022, the Company has exited substantially all transition services with Pfizer.

67

Table of Contents

In conjunction with the Biocon Biologics Transaction, Viatris and Biocon Biologics also entered an agreement pursuant to which Viatris is providing commercialization and certain other transition services on behalf of Biocon Biologics, including billings, collections and the remittance of rebates, to ensure business continuity for patients, customers and colleagues.

At December 31, 2022, our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to repayment of outstanding borrowings and interest, open purchase orders, post-employment benefit plans, unrecognized tax benefits, capital expenditures, dividends and leases. For additional information, refer to Notes 2, 4, 7, 11, 13, 15, and 17 in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We anticipate our cash requirements related to ordinary course purchases of goods and services will be consistent with our past levels.
In the normal course of business, Viatris periodically enters into employment, legal settlement and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. While the maximum amount to which Viatris may be exposed under such agreements cannot be reasonably estimated, the Company maintains insurance coverage, which management believes will effectively mitigate the Company’s obligations under these indemnification provisions. No amounts have been recorded in the consolidated financial statements with respect to the Company’s obligations under such agreements.
We have entered into employment and other agreements with certain executives and other employees that provide for compensation and certain other benefits. These agreements provide for severance payments under certain circumstances.
Licensing and Other Partner Agreements
Under our licensing and other partner agreements, our potential maximum development milestones not accrued for at December 31, 2022 totaled approximately $347 million. We estimate that the amounts that may be paid during the next twelve months to be approximately $38 million. Additionally, these agreements may also include potential sales-based milestones and call for us to pay a percentage of amounts earned from the sale of the product as a royalty or a profit share. Refer to Note 19 Licensing and Other Partner Agreements included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies
Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K and are in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Included within these policies are certain policies which contain critical accounting estimates and, therefore, have been deemed to be “critical accounting policies.” Critical accounting estimates are those which require management to make assumptions about matters that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and for which the use of different estimates, which reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have identified the following to be our critical accounting policies: the determination of net revenue provisions, acquisitions, intangible assets, goodwill and contingent consideration, income taxes and the impact of existing legal matters.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenues in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes net revenue for product sales when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for variable consideration, including discounts, rebates, governmental rebate programs, price adjustments, returns, chargebacks, promotional programs and other sales allowances. Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net sales and as a contra asset in accounts receivable, net (if settled via credit) and other current liabilities (if paid in cash). Amounts recorded for revenue deductions can result from a complex series of judgements about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. As such, they have been identified as critical accounting estimates. The following section briefly describes the nature of our provisions for variable consideration and how such provisions are estimated:

68

Table of Contents

•Chargebacks: the Company has agreements with certain indirect customers, such as independent pharmacies, retail pharmacy chains, managed care organizations, hospitals, nursing homes, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers, which establish contract prices for certain products. The indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which to purchase the products at these contracted prices. Alternatively, certain wholesalers may enter into agreements with indirect customers that establish contract pricing for certain products, which the wholesalers provide. Under either arrangement, Viatris will provide credit to the wholesaler for any difference between the contracted price with the indirect party and the wholesaler’s invoice price. Such credits are called chargebacks. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell-through levels by our wholesaler customers to indirect customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. We continually monitor our provision for chargebacks and evaluate our reserve and estimates as additional information becomes available. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $26.2 million.
•Rebates, promotional programs and other sales allowances: this category includes rebate and other programs to assist in product sales. These programs generally provide that the customer receives credit directly related to the amount of purchases or credits upon the attainment of pre-established volumes. Also included in this category are prompt pay discounts, administrative fees and price adjustments to reflect decreases in the selling prices of products. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $64.2 million.
•Returns: consistent with industry practice, Viatris maintains a return policy that allows customers to return a product, which varies country by country in accordance with local practices, generally within a specified period prior (six months) and subsequent (twelve months) to the expiration date. The Company’s estimate of the provision for returns is generally based upon historical experience with actual returns. Generally, returned products are destroyed and customers are refunded the sales price in the form of a credit. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $25.7 million.
•Governmental rebate programs: government reimbursement programs in the U.S. include Medicare, Medicaid, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs established according to statute, regulations and policy. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products that are covered by the Medicaid program are required to pay rebates to each state based on a statutory formula set forth in the Social Security Act. Medicare beneficiaries are eligible to obtain discounted prescription drug coverage from private sector providers. In addition, certain states have also implemented supplemental rebate programs that obligate manufacturers to pay rebates in excess of those required under federal law. Our estimate of these rebates is based on the historical trends of rebates paid as well as on changes in wholesaler inventory levels and increases or decreases in the level of sales. We estimate discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants in the Medicare “coverage gap” based on historical experience of prescriptions and utilization expected to result in the discount of the “coverage gap”.
Outside the U.S., the majority of our pharmaceutical sales are contractually or legislatively governed. In certain European countries, certain rebates are calculated on the governments total pharmaceutical spending or on specific product sale thresholds. We utilize historical data and obtain third party information to determine the adequacy of these accruals. Also, this provision includes price reductions that are mandated by law outside of the U.S.
A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $18.3 million.
The following is a rollforward of the categories of variable consideration during 2022:

-------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ----------------- -------- --------------------------------------- ------ --------------------------- --------- ---------------------------- ------ ---------- ------- ----- ------ - -------
(In millions) Balance at December 31, 2021 Current Provision Related to Sales Made in the Current Period Balances Divested Checks/ Credits Issued to Third Parties Effects of Foreign Exchange Balance at December 31, 2022
Chargebacks $ 591.7 $ 6,192.2 $ (53.4) $ (6,205.6) $ (1.5) $ 523.4
Rebates, promotional programs and other sales allowances 1,373.0 4,346.2 (215.1) (4,177.5) (42.4) 1,284.2
Returns 686.8 296.7 (16.0) (447.6) (6.5) 513.4
Governmental rebate programs $ 399.2 608.9 (34.1) (602.4) (5.1) 366.5
Total $ 3,050.7 $ 11,444.0 $ (318.6) $ (11,433.1) $ (55.5) $ 2,687.5

69

Table of Contents

Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net revenues and in accounts receivable and other current liabilities. Accounts receivable are presented net of allowances relating to these provisions, which were comprised of the following at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively:

------------------------- ---------------- ------- ---------------- ------- - -------
(In millions) December 31,2022 December 31,2021
Accounts receivable, net $ 1,798.7 $ 1,688.6
Other current liabilities 888.8 1,362.1
Total $ 2,687.5 $ 3,050.7

We have not made and do not anticipate making any significant changes to the methodologies that we use to measure provisions for variable consideration; however, the balances within these reserves can fluctuate significantly through the consistent application of our methodologies. Historically, we have not recorded in any current period any material amounts related to adjustments made to prior period reserves.
Acquisitions, Intangible Assets, Goodwill and Contingent Consideration
The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values. The cost to acquire businesses is allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on estimates of their respective fair values. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR&D are capitalized at the date of acquisition and, at that time, such IPR&D assets have indefinite lives. As products in development are approved for sale, amounts are allocated to product rights and licenses and will be amortized over their estimated useful lives. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Refer to Note 4 Acquisitions and Other Transactions and Note 9 Goodwill and Intangible Assets included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
Purchases of developed products and licenses that are accounted for as asset acquisitions are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over an estimated useful life. IPR&D assets acquired as part of an asset acquisition are expensed immediately if they have no alternative future uses.
The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. Fair values and useful lives are determined based on, among other factors, the expected future period of benefit of the asset, the various characteristics of the asset and projected cash flows. Because this process involves management making estimates with respect to future sales volumes, pricing, new product launches, government reform actions, anticipated cost environment and overall market conditions, and because these estimates form the basis for the determination of whether or not an impairment charge should be recorded, these estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates.
The Company records contingent consideration resulting from business acquisitions at its estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Each reporting period thereafter, the Company revalues these obligations and records increases or decreases in their fair value as adjustments to litigation settlements and other contingencies, net within the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to the discount rates, payment periods and adjustments in the probability of achieving future development steps, regulatory approvals, market launches, sales targets and profitability. These fair value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market.
Significant judgment is employed in determining the assumptions utilized as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent measurement period. Accordingly, changes in the assumptions described above could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.

70

Table of Contents

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable based on management’s assessment of the fair value of the Company’s reporting units as compared to their related carrying value. Under the authoritative guidance issued by the FASB, we have the option to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. If we choose to use qualitative factors and determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the goodwill impairment test would be required. The goodwill impairment test requires the Company to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and to compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount is less than its fair value, then no impairment is recognized. If the carrying amount recorded exceeds the fair value calculated, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. The judgments made in determining the projected cash flows used to estimate the fair value can materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
The Company performed both its interim and annual goodwill impairment tests on a quantitative basis for its five reporting units, North America, Europe, Emerging Markets, JANZ, and Greater China. In estimating each reporting unit’s fair value, the Company performed an extensive valuation analysis, utilizing both income and market-based approaches. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting unit’s expected future cash flows. These estimates and assumptions, utilizing Level 3 inputs, primarily include, but are not limited to, market multiples, control premiums, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, operating income before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts.
As of March 31, 2022 and April 1, 2022, the allocation of the Company’s total goodwill (prior to the reclassification of goodwill to assets held for sale) was as follows: North America $3.61 billion, Europe $4.95 billion, Emerging Markets $1.64 billion, JANZ $0.78 billion and Greater China $0.97 billion.
As of March 31, 2022 and April 1, 2022, the Company determined that the fair value of the North America and Greater China reporting units was substantially in excess of the respective unit’s carrying value.
For the Europe reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $797 million or 5.3% for both the interim and annual goodwill impairment tests. As it relates to the income approach for the Europe reporting unit at March 31, 2022 and April 1, 2022, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 10 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately 0.5%. A terminal year value was calculated with a negative 1.0% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 9.5% and the estimated tax rate was 15.3%. Under the market-based approach, we utilized an estimated range of market multiples of 7.5 to 8.0 times EBITDA plus a control premium of 15.0%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 3.0% or an increase in discount rate by 1.5% would result in an impairment charge for the Europe reporting unit.

For the JANZ reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $231 million or 7.4% for both the interim and annual goodwill impairment tests. As it relates to the income approach for the JANZ reporting unit at March 31, 2022 and April 1, 2022, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 10 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately negative 4.8%. A terminal year value was calculated assuming no revenue growth rate. The discount rate utilized was 6.0% and the estimated tax rate was 30.4%. Under the market-based approach, we utilized an estimated market multiple of 6.0 times EBITDA plus a control premium of 15.0%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 3.5% or an increase in discount rate by 2.0% would result in an impairment charge for the JANZ reporting unit.
For the Emerging Markets reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $816 million or 10.3% for both the interim and annual goodwill impairment tests. As it relates to the income approach for the Emerging Markets reporting unit at March 31, 2022 and April 1, 2022, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 10 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately 1.6%. A terminal year value was calculated with a 0.8% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 10.5% and the estimated tax rate was 18.4%. Under the market-based approach, we utilized an estimated market multiple of 7.5 times EBITDA plus a control premium of 15.0%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by approximately 8.5% or an increase in discount rate by 3.0% would result in an impairment charge for the Emerging Markets reporting unit.
In the fourth quarter of 2022, we determined that our Upjohn Distributor Markets should be classified as held for sale on the December 31, 2022 consolidated balance sheet. The Company allocated goodwill to its Upjohn Distributor Markets using a relative fair value approach and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $117.0 million within the Emerging Markets reporting unit, which was recorded within SG&A in the consolidated statement of operations.

71

Table of Contents

Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in underlying assumptions, especially as they relate to the key assumptions detailed, could have a significant impact on the fair value of the reporting units.
The carrying values of long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives, are evaluated periodically in relation to the expected future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying assets and monitored for other potential triggering events. We have assessed the recoverability of certain long-lived assets, principally finite-lived intangible assets, contained within the reporting units whenever certain impairment indicators are present. Any impairment of these assets must be considered prior to our impairment review of goodwill. The assessment for impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets or asset grouping by analyzing the expected future undiscounted pre-tax cash flows specific to the asset or asset grouping. If the carrying amount is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value based on discounted cash flows.
Significant management judgment is involved in estimating the recoverability of these assets and is dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions used in making these estimates, as well as how the estimates compare to the eventual future operating performance of the specific asset or asset grouping. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded $83.4 million (related to the sale of a group of OTC products in the U.S.) and $45.0 million, respectively, of impairment charges for finite-lived intangible assets, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company’s finite-lived intangible assets totaled $22.57 billion and $26.09 billion, respectively. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions related to the estimated fair value based on the discounted cash flows, including discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets, could lead to future material impairment charges. Any future long-lived assets impairment charges could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.
If the divestitures of the Upjohn Distributor Markets are not completed during 2023, the distribution arrangements will expire and the Company will wind down operations in these markets, which may result in additional asset impairment and other costs being incurred. These additional charges could be in excess of $300 million.
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets, principally IPR&D, are tested at least annually for impairment or upon the occurrence of a triggering event. The impairment test for IPR&D consists of a comparison of the asset’s fair value with its carrying value. Impairment is determined to exist when the fair value of IPR&D assets, which is based upon updated forecasts and commercial development plans, is less than the carrying value of the assets being tested. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded $0.6 million, $19.4 million, and $37.4 million, respectively, of impairment charges, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company’s IPR&D assets totaled $40.2 million and $46.5 million, respectively.
The fair value of both IPR&D and finite-lived intangible assets was determined based upon detailed valuations employing the income approach which utilized Level 3 inputs, as defined in Note 10 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions including changes to or abandonment of development programs, regulatory timelines, discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets could lead to future material impairment charges.
Income Taxes
We compute our income taxes based on the statutory tax rates and tax reliefs available to Viatris in the various jurisdictions in which we generate income. Significant judgment is required in determining our income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves in accordance with Viatris’ policy regarding accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Our policy provides that the tax effects from an uncertain tax position be recognized in Viatris’ financial statements, only if the position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the settlement of a tax audit. Our provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our provision for income taxes in the period of resolution or expiration of the underlying statutes of limitation. Based on this evaluation, as of December 31, 2022, our reserve for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $296.7 million, of which $258.1 million was recorded in connection with the Combination and is subject to Pfizer’s indemnification obligations to Viatris under the Tax Matters Agreement.

72

Table of Contents

Management assesses the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. A significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred in certain taxing jurisdictions over the three-year period ended December 31, 2022. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth.
Based on this evaluation and other factors, as of December 31, 2022, a valuation allowance of $387.0 million has been recorded in order to measure only the portion of the deferred tax asset that more likely than not will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as projections for growth. When assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers all available evidence, including historical information, long-term forecasts of future taxable income and possible tax planning strategies. Amounts recorded for valuation allowances can result from a complex series of estimates, assumptions and judgments about future events. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, assumptions and judgments, actual results could differ materially. Any future increases to the Company’s valuation allowances could materially impact the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company’s net deferred tax assets totaled $925.9 million and $1.33 billion, respectively.
A variance of 5% between estimated reserves and valuation allowances and actual resolution and realization of these tax items would have an effect on our reserve balance and valuation allowance of approximately $34.2 million.
Legal Matters
Viatris is involved in various legal proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial amounts. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal proceedings if it is probable that a liability was incurred as of the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of litigation and because of the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates.
A variance of 5% between estimated and recorded litigation reserves and actual resolution of certain legal matters would have an effect on our litigation reserve balance of approximately $10.2 million. Refer to Note 20 Litigation included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of litigation matters.

Impact of Currency Fluctuations and Inflation
Because our results are reported in U.S. Dollars, changes in the rate of exchange between the U.S. Dollar and the local currencies in the markets in which we operate, mainly the Euro, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling and South Korean Won affect our results as previously noted. During 2022, the global economy has been impacted by high levels of inflation and rising energy costs, which has resulted in significant economic volatility. As a result, central banks have and continue to tighten their monetary policies and increase interest rates. These macroeconomic pressures combined with the volatility in foreign exchange rates, including the strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus the other currencies in which we operate, negatively impacts our results of operations. We proactively look to manage such macroeconomic pressures by implementing strategies to mitigate and partially offset the impact of these factors. While inflationary and other macroeconomic pressures may ease, we continue to experience higher costs and we expect that this will likely continue throughout 2023.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Refer to Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Refer to Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[refer to Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[Refer to Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Refer to Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Refer to Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[Refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[included in Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17