================================================================================
CIK: 0000060667
Company Name: LOWES COMPANIES INC
Filing Date: 2023-03-27
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 14:09:59
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 21, 2022.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources of Liquidity

Cash flows from operations, combined with our continued access to capital markets on both a short-term and long-term basis, as needed, remain adequate to fund our operations, make strategic investments to support long-term growth, and return excess cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. We believe these sources of liquidity will continue to support our business for the next twelve months. As of February 3, 2023, we held $1.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents, as well as $3.5 billion in undrawn capacity on our revolving credit facilities.

As of February 3, 2023, our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments consist of leases, long-term debt, purchase obligations, and letters of credit. See Note 6, Note 8, and Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial

 --
 26

Table of Contents
Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report for amounts outstanding related to leases, long-term debt, and commitments, respectively, as of February 3, 2023.

Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities

----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- - ------
(In millions) 2022 2021
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,589 $ 10,113

Cash flows from operating activities continued to provide the primary source of our liquidity.  The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended February 3, 2023, compared to the year ended January 28, 2022, was due primarily to changes in working capital. Inventory decreased operating cash flow for fiscal 2022 by approximately $2.6 billion compared to a decrease of $1.4 billion for fiscal 2021. Accounts payable decreased operating cash flow for fiscal 2022 by $549 million compared to an increase of $466 million in fiscal 2021, driving a reduction of $1.0 billion in operating cash flows for fiscal 2022. The increase in inventory is primarily due to product cost and freight inflation compared to the prior year, as well as lower inventory turns year-over-year. The decrease in accounts payable is driven by timing of inventory purchases in the prior year. Other operating liabilities increased operating cash flows $388 million for fiscal 2022 compared to a decrease of $570 million in fiscal 2021. This increase is primarily driven by the deferral of payment of our third and fourth quarter estimated federal tax payments under the income tax relief announced by the Internal Revenue Service for business located in states impacted by Hurricane Ian.

Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities

------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- - -------
(In millions) 2022 2021
Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,309) $ (1,646)

Net cash used in investing activities primarily consists of transactions related to capital expenditures, offset by proceeds from the sale of the Canadian retail business.

Capital expenditures

Our capital expenditures generally consist of investments in our strategic initiatives to enhance our ability to serve customers, improve existing stores, and support expansion plans. Capital expenditures were $1.8 billion in 2022 and $1.9 billion in 2021. The following table provides the allocation of capital expenditures for 2022 and 2021:

-------------------------------------------------------- ---- - ---- --- -
 2022 2021
Existing store investments ¹ 75 % 75 %
Strategic initiatives ² 15 % 15 %
New stores, new corporate facilities and international 3 10 % 10 %
Total capital expenditures 100 % 100 %

1Includes merchandising resets, facility repairs, replacements of IT and store equipment, among other specific efforts.
2Represents investments related to our strategic focus areas aimed at improving customers’ experience and driving improved performance in the near and long term.
3Represents expenditures primarily related to land purchases, buildings, and personal property for new store projects and new corporate facilities projects as well as expenditures related to our international operations.

For 2023, our guidance for capital expenditures is up to $2.0 billion. The following table provides the allocation of our fiscal 2023 capital expenditures guidance:

----------------------------------- ---- -
 2023
Existing store investments 70 %
Strategic initiatives 25 %
New stores and corporate facilities 5 %

--
27

Table of Contents

Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities

------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- - --------
(In millions) 2022 2021
Net cash used in financing activities $ (7,049) $ (12,016)

Net cash used in financing activities primarily consist of transactions related to our debt, share repurchases, and cash dividend payments.

Total Debt

In 2022, we issued $9.8 billion of unsecured notes. This is comprised of $5.0 billion of unsecured notes issued in March 2022 and $4.8 billion of unsecured notes issued in September 2022, the proceeds of which were designated for general corporate purposes. In 2022, we paid approximately $765 million to retire scheduled debts at maturity.

We have a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving third amended and restated credit agreement (the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement), with a syndicate of banks, which has a maturity date of December 2026 and an aggregate availability of $2.0 billion. We also have a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit agreement dated March 23, 2020, and as amended, (the 2020 Credit Agreement) with a syndicate of banks, which has a maturity date of December 2026 and an aggregate availability of $2.0 billion. Subject to obtaining commitments from the lenders and satisfying other conditions specified in the 2020 Credit Agreement and the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (collectively, the Credit Agreements), the Company may increase the combined aggregate availability of the Credit Agreements by an additional $1.0 billion.

The Credit Agreements support our commercial paper program. The amount available to be drawn under the Credit Agreements is reduced by the amount of borrowings under our commercial paper program. Outstanding borrowings under the Company’s commercial paper program were $499 million, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.78% as of February 3, 2023. There were no outstanding borrowings under the 2020 Credit Agreement or the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as of February 3, 2023. There were no outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper program, the 2020 Credit Agreement, or the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as of January 28, 2022. Total combined availability under the 2020 Credit Agreement and the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as of February 3, 2023, was $3.5 billion.

The Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the 2020 Credit Agreement contain customary representations, warranties, and covenants. We were in compliance with those covenants as of February 3, 2023.

The following table includes additional information related to our debt for 2022 and 2021:

------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- - - -------
(In millions, except for interest rate data) 2022 2021
Net proceeds from issuance of debt $ 9,667 $ 4,972
Repayment of debt $ (867) $ (2,118)
Net change in commercial paper $ 499 $ —
Maximum commercial paper outstanding at any period $ 2,470 $ 400
Short-term borrowings outstanding at year-end $ 499 $ —
Weighted-average interest rate of short-term borrowings outstanding 4.78 % — %

Share Repurchases

We have an ongoing share repurchase program, authorized by the Company’s Board of Directors, that is executed through purchases made from time to time either in the open market or through private off-market transactions. We also withhold shares from employees to satisfy tax withholding liabilities on share-based payments. Shares repurchased are returned to

 --
 28

Table of Contents
authorized and unissued status. The following table provides, on a settlement date basis, the total number of shares repurchased, average price paid per share, and the total amount paid for share repurchases for 2022 and 2021:

--------------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- - ------
(In millions, except per share data) 2022 2021
Total amount paid for share repurchases $ 14,124 $ 13,012
Total number of shares repurchased 71.2 62.8
Average price paid per share $ 198.39 $ 207.32

As of February 3, 2023, we had $20.7 billion remaining under our share repurchase program with no expiration date.

Dividends

In the third quarter of 2022, we increased our quarterly dividend payment by 31% to $1.05 per share. Our dividend payment dates are established such that dividends are paid in the quarter immediately following the quarter in which they are declared. The following table provides additional information related to our dividend payments for 2022 and 2021:

-------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- -- - -----
(In millions, except per share data and percentage data) 2022 2021
Total cash dividend payments $ 2,370 $ 1,984
Dividends paid per share $ 3.70 $ 2.80

Dividend payout ratio 37 % 24 %

Capital Resources

We expect to continue to have access to the capital markets on both short-term and long-term bases when needed for liquidity purposes by issuing commercial paper or new long-term debt. The availability and the borrowing costs of these funds could be adversely affected, however, by a downgrade of our debt ratings or a deterioration of certain financial ratios.  The table below reflects our debt ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s as of March 27, 2023, which is disclosed to provide an enhanced understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effect of our ratings on our cost of funds.  Our debt ratings have enabled, and should continue to enable, us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in capital markets. Our commercial paper and senior debt ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

---------------- ------ -------
Debt Ratings S&P Moody’s
Commercial Paper A-2 P-2
Senior Debt BBB+ Baa1
Outlook Stable Stable

There are no provisions in any agreements that would require early cash settlement of existing debt or leases as a result of a downgrade in our debt rating or a decrease in our stock price.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements presented in this Annual Report requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.  We base these estimates on historical results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.  Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included herein.  We believe that the following accounting policies affect the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

--
29

Table of Contents
Merchandise Inventory

Description
We record an obsolete inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with selling inventories below cost.  This reserve is based on our current knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical experience.  During 2022, our reserve decreased approximately $29 million to $139 million as of February 3, 2023.

We also record an inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between physical inventories.  This reserve is based primarily on actual shrink results from previous physical inventories.  During 2022, the inventory shrink reserve increased approximately $14 million to $428 million as of February 3, 2023, in response to higher volumes and estimated shrinkage rates based on results from previous physical inventories.

In addition, we receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business, principally as a result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors’ products.  Generally, these vendor funds do not represent the reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs that we incurred to sell the vendor’s product.  Many of the vendor funds associated with these purchases are earned under agreements that are negotiated on an annual basis or shorter. The funds are recorded as a reduction to the cost of inventory as they are earned. As the related inventory is sold, the amounts are recorded as a reduction to cost of sales. Funds that are determined to be reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to sell vendors’ products are recorded as an offset to the related expense.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate
We do not believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions. However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product quality could result in the need for additional reserves.  Likewise, changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the timing and results of physical inventories.  We also apply judgment in the determination of levels of obsolete inventory and assumptions about net realizable value.

For vendor funds, we develop accrual rates based on the provisions of the agreements in place.  Due to the diversity of the individual vendor agreements, we perform analyses and review historical purchase trends and volumes throughout the year, adjust accrual rates as appropriate and confirm actual amounts with select vendors to ensure the amounts earned are appropriately recorded.  Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our inventory valuation or the related reserves for obsolete inventory or inventory shrinkage during the past three fiscal years.  We believe that we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of these inventory reserves.  However, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded reserves. A 10% change in either the amount of products considered obsolete or the weighted average estimated loss rate used in the calculation of our obsolete inventory reserve would each have affected net earnings by approximately $10 million for 2022. A 10% change in the estimated shrinkage rate included in the calculation of our inventory shrink reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $32 million for 2022.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize vendor funds during the past three fiscal years.  If actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be exposed to additional adjustments that could positively or negatively impact gross margin and inventory.  However, substantially all receivables associated with these activities do not require subjective long-term estimates because they are collected within the following fiscal year.  Adjustments to gross margin and inventory in the following fiscal year have historically not been material.

Long-Lived Asset Impairment

Description
We review the carrying amounts of long-lived assets whenever certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. When evaluating long-lived assets for impairment, our asset group is generally at an individual location level, as that is the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Cash flows for individual locations do not include an allocation of corporate overhead.

We evaluate locations for triggering events relating to long-lived asset impairment on a quarterly basis to determine when a location’s assets may not be recoverable. For operating locations, our primary indicator that assets may not be recoverable is

 --
 30

Table of Contents
consistently negative cash flow for a twelve month period for those locations that have been open in the same location for a sufficient period of time to allow for meaningful analysis of ongoing operating results. Management also monitors other factors when evaluating operating locations for impairment, including individual locations’ execution of their operating plans and local market conditions, including incursion, which is the opening of either other Lowe’s locations or those of a direct competitor within the same market. We also consider there to be a triggering event when there is a current expectation that it is more likely than not that a given location will be closed or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.

During the third quarter of 2022, the Company determined it was more likely than not that the assets within the Canadian retail business would be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of their previously estimated useful lives and were evaluated for recoverability. Based on the proposed transaction, the Company reconsidered the appropriate asset grouping of long-lived assets attributable to the Company’s Canadian locations given the change in the Company’s expectations regarding use and disposition of its associated assets. The Company determined the total Canada retail business (Canada asset group) to be the appropriate asset group for which Canadian business assets should be evaluated, as this represents the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets and liabilities. Changes in asset group determinations are accounted for on a prospective basis.

A potential impairment has occurred if the fair value of the asset group is less than the asset group’s carrying value. The carrying value of an operating location’s asset group includes inventory, property, operating and finance lease right-of-use assets and operating liabilities including accounts payables, accrued compensation, and operating lease liabilities. Financial and nonoperating liabilities are excluded from the carrying value of the asset group. When determining the stream of projected future cash flows associated with an individual operating location, management makes assumptions, incorporating local market conditions, about key store variables including sales growth rates, gross margin and controllable expenses, such as store payroll and operating expense, as well as asset residual values or lease rates. Operating lease payments are included in the projected future cash flows. Financing lease payments are excluded from the projected future cash flows. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the operating location is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value.

The carrying value of the Canada asset group included substantially all assets and liabilities of the Canadian retail business, including accounts receivable, inventory, property, operating and finance lease right-of-use assets, definite-lived intangible assets, operating liabilities including accounts payable and accrued compensation, and operating and finance lease liabilities. The cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment balance was excluded from the carrying value of the Canada asset group in evaluating the recoverability of a held and used asset group.

We use an income approach to determine the fair value of our individual operating locations, which requires discounting projected future cash flows. This involves making assumptions regarding both a location’s future cash flows, as described above, and an appropriate discount rate to determine the present value of those future cash flows. We discount our cash flow estimates at a rate commensurate with the risk that selected market participants would assign to the cash flows. The selected market participants represent a group of other retailers with a market footprint similar in size to ours.

We use a market approach to determine the fair value of our individual locations identified for sale or closure. This involves making assumptions regarding the estimated selling prices or estimated lease rates by obtaining information from property brokers or appraisers in the specific markets being evaluated. The information includes comparable sales of similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for purchase or lease of these assets. A market approach of an orderly transaction under current market conditions was used in determining the estimated fair value of the Canada asset group, which was based on the proposed transaction price, inclusive of performance-based contingent consideration.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate
Our impairment evaluations require us to apply judgment in determining whether a triggering event has occurred, including the evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed or an asset will be otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. Our impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, including estimated sales, margin, and controllable expenses, assumptions about market performance for operating locations, and estimated selling prices or lease rates for locations identified for closure. We also apply judgment in estimating asset fair values, including the selection of an appropriate discount rate for fair values determined using an income approach.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
During fiscal 2022, the Company recorded $2.1 billion of long-lived asset impairment within selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) in the consolidated statements of earnings, which reflects the full carrying value of the long-lived assets of the Canada asset group. During fiscal 2021, long-lived asset impairment was immaterial. If the actual results are not consistent

--
31

Table of Contents
with the assumptions and judgments we have made in determining whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its useful life or in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values, our actual impairment losses could vary from our estimated impairment losses. In the event that our estimates vary from actual results, we may record additional impairment losses, which could be material to our results of operations.

Self-Insurance

Description
We are self-insured for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation, automobile, general and product liability, extended protection plans, and certain medical and dental claims. We have excess insurance coverage above certain retention amounts to limit exposure from single events and earnings volatility. Our self-insured retention or deductible, as applicable, is limited to $2 million per occurrence involving workers’ compensation, $10 million per occurrence involving general liability, product liability, and automobile liability. We do not have any excess insurance coverage for self-insured extended protection plan or medical and dental claims. Self-insurance claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical experience. During 2022, our self-insurance liabilities decreased approximately $45 million to $1.1 billion as of February 3, 2023.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate
These estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment, utilized discount rate, projected exposures including payroll, sales and vehicle units, as well as the frequency, lag and severity of claims.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. Although we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance liabilities. A 10% change in our self-insurance liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $80 million for 2022. A 100 basis point change in our discount rate would have affected net earnings by approximately $21 million for 2022.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...
