================================================================================
CIK: 0001100682
Company Name: CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-22
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 11:12:14
================================================================================

Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A discussion of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2021 and a comparison of our results for the fiscal years ended December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020 was included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2022. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain percentage changes may not recalculate due to rounding.

Overview
We are a full service, leading, non-clinical global drug development partner. For over 75 years, we have been in the business of providing the research models required in the research and development of new drugs, devices, and therapies. Over this time, we have built upon our original core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse portfolio of discovery and safety assessment services, both Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and non-GLP, that supports our clients from target identification through non-clinical development. We also provide a suite of products and services to support our clients’ manufacturing activities, including our contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) business. Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to create a more efficient and flexible drug development model, which reduces their costs, enhances their productivity and effectiveness, and increases speed to market.
Our client base includes major global pharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies; agricultural and industrial chemical, life science, veterinary medicine, medical device, diagnostic and consumer product companies; contract research and contract manufacturing organizations; and other commercial entities, as well as leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies around the world. We currently operate in over 150 locations and in 21 countries worldwide, which numbers exclude certain Insourcing Solutions (IS) sites.
Segment Reporting
Our three reportable segments are Research Models and Services (RMS), Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA), and Manufacturing Solutions (Manufacturing).
Our RMS reportable segment includes the Research Models, Research Model Services, and Cell Solutions businesses. Research Models includes the commercial production and sale of small research models, as well as the supply of large research models. Research Model Services includes: Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS), which performs contract breeding and other services associated with genetically engineered models; Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS), which provides health monitoring and diagnostics services related to research models; and Insourcing Solutions (IS), which provides colony management of our clients’ research operations (including recruitment, training, staffing, and management services) within our clients’ facilities as well as our own vivarium space, utilizing both our Charles River Accelerator and Development Lab (CRADL) and our Explora BioLabs options. Cell Solutions provides controlled, consistent, customized primary cells and blood components derived from normal and mobilized peripheral blood, bone marrow, and cord blood.
Our DSA segment is comprised of two businesses: Discovery Services and Safety Assessment. We provide regulated and non-regulated DSA services to support the research, development, and regulatory-required safety testing of potential new drugs, including therapeutic discovery and optimization plus in vitro and in vivo studies, laboratory support services, and strategic non-clinical consulting and program management to support product development.
Our Manufacturing reportable segment includes Microbial Solutions, which provides in vitro (non-animal) lot-release testing products, microbial detection products, and species identification services and Biologics Solutions (Biologics), which performs specialized testing of biologics (Biologics Testing Solutions) as well as contract development and manufacturing products and services (CDMO). In December of 2022, we sold the Avian Vaccine Services (Avian) business, reported in the Manufacturing segment, which supplied specific-pathogen-free chicken eggs and chickens.

39

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
U.S. Department of Justice Investigation into Non-Human Primate Supply Chain
On February 16, 2023, we were informed by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) that in conjunction with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), it had commenced an investigation into our conduct regarding several shipments of non-human primates from Cambodia. On February 17, 2023 we received a grand jury subpoena requesting certain documents related to such investigation. We are aware of a parallel civil investigation being undertaken by the DOJ and USFWS. We are cooperating with the DOJ and the USFWS and believe that the concerns raised with respect to our conduct are without merit. We maintain a global supplier onboarding and oversight program incorporating risk-based due diligence, auditing, and monitoring practices to help ensure the quality of our supplier relationships and compliance with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations, and has operated under the belief that all shipments of non-human primates we received satisfied the material requirements, documentation and related processes and procedures of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) documentation and related processes and procedures, which guides the release of each import by USFWS. Notwithstanding our efforts and good-faith belief, in connection with the civil investigation, we have voluntarily suspended future shipments of non-human primates from Cambodia until such time that we and USFWS can agree upon and implement additional procedures to reasonably ensure that non-human primates imported to the United States from Cambodia are purpose-bred. While these discussions with USFWS are ongoing, we have also agreed to continue to care for the Cambodia-sourced non-human primates from certain recent shipments that are now in the United States. The carrying value of the inventory related to these shipments is approximately $20 million. We are not able to predict what action, if any, might be taken in the future by the DOJ, USFWS or other governmental authorities as a result of the investigations. Neither the DOJ nor USFWS has provided us with any specific timeline or indication as to when these investigations or discussions regarding future processes and procedures will be concluded or resolved. Because it is in the early stages, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or possible impact of the investigations, including without limitation any potential fines, penalties or liabilities. Refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” disclosed herein for our assessment of risk factors surrounding this matter.
Aside from the matter above, we believe there are no other matters pending against us that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.
Russia-Ukraine Conflict
In February 2022, the Russian Federation launched an invasion of the country of Ukraine resulting in conflict in the region and a variety of sanctions against the Russian Federation enacted by several governments, including the U.S, United Kingdom, Canada and European Union. The conflict has had and continues to have, direct and indirect adverse effects on financial markets and global supply chain disruptions. We do not have any direct operations in either Russia or Ukraine and there were no material impacts to our financial statements during fiscal year 2022 as a result of the situation. We will continue to monitor the situation as it evolves for potential impacts to our operating and financial results such as increased inflation, supply chain, or cybersecurity risks in subsequent periods. Refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors” disclosed herein for our assessment of risk factors surrounding inflationary, supply chain and cybersecurity risks.
Recent Acquisitions
Our strategy is to augment internal growth of existing businesses with complementary acquisitions. We continue to make strategic acquisitions designed to expand our portfolio of products and services to support the drug discovery and development continuum. Our recent acquisitions are described below.
Fiscal Year 2023 Acquisition
On January 30, 2023, we acquired SAMDI Tech, Inc., (SAMDI), a leading provider of high-quality, label-free high-throughput screening (HTS) solutions for drug discovery research. The acquisition of SAMDI will provide clients with seamless access to the premier, label-free HTS MS platform and create a comprehensive, library of drug discovery solutions. The preliminary purchase price of SAMDI was $60 million, inclusive of a 20% strategic equity interest previously owned by us. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business will be reported as part of our DSA reportable segment.
Fiscal Year 2022 Acquisition
On April 5, 2022, we acquired Explora BioLabs Holdings, Inc. (Explora BioLabs), a provider of contract vivarium research services, providing biopharmaceutical clients with turnkey in vivo vivarium facilities, management and related services to efficiently conduct their early-stage research activities. The acquisition of Explora BioLabs complements our existing Insourcing Solutions business, specifically our CRADL™ footprint, and offers incremental opportunities to partner with an emerging client base, many of which are engaged in cell and gene therapy development. The purchase price of Explora BioLabs was $284.5 million, net of $6.6 million in cash. The acquisition was funded through proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our RMS reportable segment.

40

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Fiscal Year 2021 Acquisitions
On June 28, 2021, we acquired Vigene Biosciences, Inc. (Vigene), a gene therapy CDMO, providing viral vector-based gene delivery solutions. The acquisition enables clients to seamlessly conduct analytical testing, process development, and manufacturing for advanced modalities with the same scientific partner. The purchase price of Vigene was $323.9 million, net of $2.7 million in cash, and includes $34.5 million of contingent consideration (maximum contingent payments of up to $57.5 million based on future performance). The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our Manufacturing reportable segment. As of December 31, 2022, the fair value of the contingent consideration was zero as certain financial targets have not and are not expected to be achieved.
On March 30, 2021, we acquired Retrogenix Limited (Retrogenix), an outsourced discovery services provider specializing in bioanalytical services utilizing its proprietary cell microarray technology. The acquisition of Retrogenix enhances our scientific expertise with additional large molecule and cell therapy discovery capabilities. The purchase price of Retrogenix was $53.9 million, net of $8.5 million in cash. Included in the purchase price are additional payments up to $6.9 million, which are contingent on future performance. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment.
On March 29, 2021, we acquired Cognate BioServices, Inc. (Cognate), a cell and gene therapy CDMO offering comprehensive manufacturing solutions for cell therapies, as well as for the production of plasmid DNA and other inputs in the CDMO value chain. The acquisition of Cognate establishes us as a scientific partner for cell and gene therapy development, testing, and manufacturing, providing clients with an integrated solution from basic research and discovery through cGMP production. The purchase price of Cognate was $877.9 million, net of $70.5 million in cash, and includes $15.7 million of consideration for an approximate 2% ownership interest not initially acquired, but redeemed in April 2022 with the ultimate payout tied to performance in 2021. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility and Senior Notes issued in fiscal 2021. This business is reported as part of our Manufacturing reportable segment.
On March 3, 2021, we acquired certain assets from a distributor that supports our DSA reportable segment. The purchase price was $35.4 million, which includes $19.5 million in cash paid ($5.5 million of which was paid in fiscal 2020), and $15.9 million of contingent consideration (the maximum contingent contractual payments are up to $17.5 million). The business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. As of December 31, 2022, the fair value of the contingent consideration was zero as certain operational targets were not achieved.
On December 31, 2020, we acquired Distributed Bio, Inc. (Distributed Bio), a next-generation antibody discovery company with technologies specializing in enhancing the probability of success for delivering high-quality, readily formattable antibody fragments to support antibody and cell and gene therapy candidates to biopharmaceutical clients. The acquisition of Distributed Bio expands our capabilities with an innovative, large-molecule discovery platform, and creates an integrated, end-to-end platform for therapeutic antibody and cell and gene therapy discovery and development. The purchase price of Distributed Bio was $97.0 million, net of $0.8 million in cash. The total consideration includes $80.8 million cash paid, settlement of $3.0 million in convertible promissory notes previously issued by us during prior fiscal years, and $14.1 million of contingent consideration (the maximum contingent contractual payments are up to $21.0 million). The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. During fiscal year 2022, $7.0 million of contingent consideration was paid as certain operational milestones were achieved. Other financial targets associated with the contingent consideration were not met and the fair value of the remaining contingent consideration is zero as of December 31, 2022.
Recent Divestitures
We routinely evaluate strategic fit and fundamental performance of our global infrastructure and divest operations that do not meet key business criteria. As part of this assessment, we determined that this capital could be better deployed in other long-term growth opportunities.
On December 20, 2022, we completed the sale of our Avian Vaccine Services (Avian) business to a private investor group for a preliminary purchase price of $169 million in cash, subject to certain customary closing adjustments, and future contingent payments up to an additional $30 million. This business was reported in our Manufacturing reportable segment.
On October 12, 2021, we completed two separate divestitures. We sold our RMS Japan operations to The Jackson Laboratory for a purchase price of $70.9 million, which included $7.9 million in cash, $3.8 million pension over funding, and certain post-closing adjustments. We also sold our gene therapy CDMO site in Sweden to a private investor group for a purchase price of $59.6 million, net of $0.2 million in cash and certain post-closing adjustments. Included in the purchase price are contingent payments fair valued at $15.3 million, (the maximum contingent contractual payments are up to $25.0 million based on future performance), as well as a purchase obligation of approximately $10 million between the parties. As of December 31, 2022, the fair value of the contingent payments was reduced to $7.5 million as certain financial targets are not expected to be achieved.

41

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Fiscal Quarters
Our fiscal year is typically based on 52-weeks, with each quarter composed of 13 weeks ending on the last Saturday on, or closest to, March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. A 53rd week in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year is occasionally necessary to align with a December 31 calendar year-end, which occurred in fiscal year 2022.
Business Trends
The demand and pricing for our products and services continued to increase meaningfully in fiscal year 2022. Many of our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients continued to intensify their use of strategic outsourcing to improve their operating efficiency and to access capabilities that they do not maintain internally. The COVID-19 pandemic abated and emerging macroeconomic challenges, including cost inflation, interest rates, and foreign exchanges headwinds, did not have a meaningful impact on client demand in 2022. A reduction in the biotechnology funding environment from peak levels in 2021 also did not have a meaningful impact on demand from small and mid-size biotechnology clients, which continued to be the primary driver of revenue growth. Many of our large biopharmaceutical clients have continued to increase investments in their drug discovery and early-stage development efforts and have strengthened their relationships with outsourced partners, like Charles River, and biotechnology companies to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. Our ability to continue to deliver our leading suite of research and non-clinical development solutions has endeavored our clients to increasingly choose to partner with us for our flexible and efficient outsourcing solutions, broad scientific capabilities, and global scale, resulting in strong revenue growth across all three of our reportable segments in fiscal year 2022.
Demand and pricing for our Research Models and Services increased meaningfully due to our clients’ focus on scientific innovation resulting in increased biomedical research activity, which drove robust revenue growth in fiscal year 2022. This was particularly true in North America and China, with China reporting healthy growth rates despite a modest impact from COVID-19 in 2022. Demand for research model services continued to perform very well, led by our Insourcing Solutions business, particularly our CRADL™ operations. Clients are increasingly adopting CRADL™’s flexible model to access laboratory space without having to invest in internal infrastructure. To support client demand, we are continuing to expand CRADL™’s footprint both organically and through the acquisition of Explora BioLabs in April 2022. We are confident that research models and services will remain essential tools for our clients’ drug discovery and early-stage development efforts.
Our DSA reportable segment continued to benefit from these trends in fiscal year 2022. Robust Safety Assessment revenue growth was primarily driven by unprecedented client demand and increased pricing, which was supported by record backlog levels. We believe that our comprehensive scientific capabilities and global scale, as well as the breadth and depth of our scientific expertise, quality, and responsiveness remain key criteria when our clients make the decision to outsource to us. Biotechnology clients continue to move their programs forward and utilize outsourcing to achieve their goal of more efficient and effective drug research to bring innovative new therapies to market. We continued to enhance our Discovery Services capabilities to provide clients with a comprehensive portfolio that enables them to start working with us at the earliest stages of the discovery process. We have accomplished this in recent years through acquisitions and by adding cutting-edge capabilities to our discovery toolkit through technology partnerships. In fiscal year 2022, demand in our Discovery Services business also increased, but moderated from prior-year levels as some clients took longer to commence new projects.
Demand for our products and services that support our clients’ manufacturing activities increased across most of our Manufacturing Solutions businesses in fiscal year 2022. Demand for our Microbial Solutions business remained strong as manufacturers continued to increase their use of our rapid microbial testing solutions. Within our Biologics Solutions business, biologics testing services continued to benefit from robust demand driven by our analytical testing services to address the rapidly growing proportion of biologic drugs in the pipeline and on the market, including cell and gene therapies. We enhanced our Biologics Solutions portfolio in 2021 with the acquisitions of Cognate (March 2021) and Vigene (June 2021) to expand our scientific capabilities into the cell and gene therapy CDMO sector. Demand for our CDMO services was negatively impacted in fiscal year 2022 by the loss of a large COVID-19 project in 2021 that we were unable to backfill and other integration-related challenges that required resources and investments to enhance infrastructure and optimize processes within the business. We believe the initiatives that we have implemented to improve the performance of our CDMO business are beginning to gain traction, and will enable Charles River to be a premier scientific partner for development, testing, and manufacturing of advanced drug modalities and further enhance our presence in the high-growth cell and gene therapy sector.
Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity
Revenue for fiscal year 2022 was $4.0 billion compared to $3.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. The 2022 increase as compared to the corresponding period in 2021 was $435.9 million, or 12.3%, and was primarily due to the increased demand within our DSA segment, the impact of the 53rd week, and our recent acquisitions; partially offset by the recent divestitures (principally RMS Japan and CDMO Sweden), and the negative effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates when compared to the corresponding period in 2021.

42

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
In fiscal year 2022, our operating income and operating income margin were $651.0 million and 16.4%, respectively, compared with $589.9 million and 16.7%, respectively, in fiscal year 2021. The increase in operating income was primarily due to the contribution of higher revenue described above; partially offset by higher amortization related to our recent acquisitions, higher operating costs associated with our CDMO business, higher staffing costs, and modest inflationary pressures compared to the corresponding period in 2021. These increased costs were the primary driver of the decreased operating income margin compared to the corresponding period in 2021.
Net income attributable to common shareholders increased to $486.2 million in fiscal year 2022, from $391.0 million in the corresponding period of 2021. The increase in net income attributable to common shareholders of $95.2 million was primarily due to the increase in operating income described above, the gain on the divestiture of our Avian business of $123.4 million, partially offset by higher provision for income taxes compared to the corresponding period in 2021.
During fiscal year 2022, our cash flows from operations was $619.6 million compared with $760.8 million for fiscal year 2021. The decrease was driven by changes in our working capital balances, principally the timing of our revenue and collections of net contract balances from customers (collectively trade receivables and contract assets, net; deferred revenue; and customer contract deposits) and timing of payments to vendors, increased inventory purchases to support growth initiatives of our businesses, principally Safety Assessment, and higher variable compensation payments in 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S.). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are monitored and analyzed by us for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on our historical experience, trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of the estimates and assumptions on our consolidated financial statements is or may be material. We believe the following represent our critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements:
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized when, or as, obligations under the terms of a contract are satisfied, which occurs when control of the promised products or services is transferred to customers. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring products or services to a customer (“transaction price”).
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the amount to which we expect to be entitled. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. Estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available. Sales, value add, and other taxes collected on behalf of third parties are excluded from revenue.
When determining the transaction price of a contract, an adjustment is made if payment from a customer occurs either significantly before or significantly after performance, resulting in a significant financing component. Generally, we do not extend payment terms beyond one year. Applying the practical expedient, we do not assess whether a significant financing component exists if the period between when we perform our obligations under the contract and when the customer pays is one year or less. Our contracts do not generally contain significant financing components.
Contracts with customers may contain multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated relative standalone selling prices of the promised products or services underlying each performance obligation. We determine standalone selling prices based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.

43

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications exist when the modification either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and obligations. Generally, when contract modifications create new performance obligations, the modification is considered to be a separate contract and revenue is recognized prospectively. When contract modifications change existing performance obligations, the impact on the existing transaction price and measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is generally recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis.
Product revenue is generally recognized when the customer obtains control of our product, which occurs at a point in time, and may be upon shipment or upon delivery based on the contractual shipping terms of a contract. Service revenue is generally recognized over time as the services are delivered to the customer based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Depending on which better depicts the transfer of value to the customer, we generally measure our progress using either cost-to-cost (input method) or right-to-invoice (output method). We use the cost-to-cost measure of progress when it best depicts the transfer of value to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contract, generally related to fixed fee service contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. The costs calculation includes variables such as labor hours, allocation of overhead costs, research model costs, and subcontractor costs. Revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. The right-to-invoice measure of progress is generally related to rate per unit contracts, as the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on discrete service or time-based increments, such as samples tested or labor hours incurred. Revenue is recorded in the amount invoiced since that amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. During fiscal year 2022, $2.4 billion, or approximately 60%, of our total revenue recognized ($4.0 billion) is DSA service revenue transferred over time.
Income Taxes
We prepare and file income tax returns based on our interpretation of each jurisdiction’s tax laws and regulations. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Significant management judgment is required in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. In making this determination, under the applicable financial accounting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and the effects of tax planning strategies. Our valuation allowance was $294.8 million as of December 31, 2022. In the event actual results differ from our estimates, we will adjust our estimates in future periods and may establish additional allowances or reversals as necessary.
We account for uncertain tax positions using a “more-likely-than-not” threshold for recognizing and resolving uncertain tax positions. We evaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and consider various factors, that include, but are not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, the effective settlement of matters subject to audit, information obtained during in process audit activities and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We adjust the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts surrounding the uncertain positions. Our liabilities for uncertain tax positions can be relieved only if the contingency becomes legally extinguished through either payment to the taxing authority or the expiration of the statute of limitations, the recognition of the benefits associated with the position meet the “more-likely-than-not” threshold or the liability becomes effectively settled through the controversy process. We consider matters to be effectively settled once the taxing authority has completed all of its required or expected examination procedures, including all appeals and administrative reviews; we have no plans to appeal or litigate any aspect of the tax position; and we believe that it is highly unlikely that the taxing authority would re-examine the related tax position. We also accrue for potential interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.
We generally receive a tax deduction upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options by employees, or the vesting of restricted stock and performance share units held by employees. The stock price, timing, and amount of vesting and exercising of stock-based compensation could materially impact our current tax expense.

44

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
We use assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. The determination of the fair value of intangible assets, which represents a significant portion of the purchase price in many of our acquisitions, requires the use of significant judgment with regard to (i) the fair value; and (ii) whether such intangibles are amortizable or non-amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the intangible asset will be amortized. We utilize commonly accepted valuation techniques, such as the income, cost and market approaches, as appropriate, in establishing the fair value of intangible assets. Typically, key assumptions include projections of cash flows that arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses as well as discount rates based on an analysis of the weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets.
In our recent acquisitions, customer relationship intangible assets (also referred to as client relationships) have been the most significant identifiable assets acquired. To determine the fair value of the acquired client relationships, we utilized the multiple period excess earnings model (a commonly accepted valuation technique), which includes the following key assumptions: projections of cash flows from the acquired entities, which included future revenue growth rates, operating income margins, and customer attrition rates; as well as discount rates based on an analysis of the acquired entities’ weighted average cost of capital. The value of the client relationship acquired was $64.0 million for fiscal year 2022 and $378.1 million for fiscal year 2021 related to business combinations.
We review definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. No significant impairments were recognized during fiscal years 2022 and 2021.
We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually, during the fourth quarter, and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset-related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in our analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and our evaluation of goodwill for impairment.
We perform the quantitative impairment test where we compare the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying values. If the carrying values of the net assets assigned to the reporting units exceed the fair values of the reporting units, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. In fiscal years 2022 and 2021 we performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for our reporting units. Fair value was determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination was deemed to be the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilized information about our company as well as publicly available industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determined fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Our 2022 and 2021 impairment tests indicated that goodwill was not impaired.
Valuation and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property, plant, and equipment, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, the following:
•significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;
•significant negative industry or economic trends; or
•significant changes or developments in strategy or operations that negatively affect the utilization of our long-lived assets.
Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset, net of any sublease income, if applicable, and its eventual disposition. In the event that such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to their fair values. We measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. Significant judgments are required to estimate future cash flows, including the selection of appropriate discount rates and other assumptions. We may also estimate fair value based on

45

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
market prices for similar assets, as appropriate. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for these assets. No significant impairments were recognized during fiscal year 2022 and 2021.
Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans
Several of our U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. We recognize the funded status of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as an asset or liability. This amount is defined as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. We measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of our fiscal year end.
The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the expected return on plan assets, withdrawal and mortality rates, discount rate, and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on our data and appropriate market indicators, and are evaluated each year as of the plans’ measurement date. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation.
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligations. In determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the relative weighting of plan assets, the historical performance of total plan assets and individual asset classes and economic and other indicators of future performance.
The discount rate reflects the rate we would have to pay to purchase high-quality investments that would provide cash sufficient to settle our current pension obligations. A 25-basis point change in the discount rate changes the projected benefit obligation by approximately $7 million for all our plans.
The rate of compensation increase reflects the expected annual salary increases for the plan participants based on historical experience and the current employee compensation strategy.
New Accounting Pronouncements
For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

46

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Results of Operations
Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021
Revenue and Operating Income
The following tables present consolidated revenue by type and by reportable segment:

--------------- ---------------------------------- --------- ---- ------- -------- --------- -------- - ------- - ---- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change
 (in thousands, except percentages)
Service revenue $ 3,216,904 $ 2,755,579 $ 461,325 16.7 %
Product revenue 759,156 784,581 (25,425) (3.2) %
 $ 3,976,060 $ 3,540,160 $ 435,900 12.3 %

------------- ---------------------------------- --------- ---- --------- -------- --------- -------- ------------ ------- - ----- - ----- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change Impact of FX
 (in thousands, except percentages)
RMS $ 739,175 $ 690,437 $ 48,738 7.1 % (3.3) %
DSA 2,447,316 2,107,231 340,085 16.1 % (3.3) %
Manufacturing 789,569 742,492 47,077 6.3 % (4.4) %
Total revenue $ 3,976,060 $ 3,540,160 $ 435,900 12.3 % (3.5) %

The following table presents operating income by reportable segment:

----------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------- ---- --------- -------- ------- -------- ------------ ------- - ----- - ----- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change Impact of FX
 (in thousands, except percentages)
RMS $ 160,410 $ 166,814 $ (6,404) (3.8) % (3.8) %
DSA 532,889 406,978 125,911 30.9 % (0.3) %
Manufacturing 167,084 246,390 (79,306) (32.2) % (5.8) %
Unallocated corporate (209,408) (230,320) 20,912 (9.1) % (0.8) %
Total operating income $ 650,975 $ 589,862 $ 61,113 10.4 % (3.3) %
Operating income % of revenue 16.4 % 16.7 % (30) bps

The following presents and discusses our consolidated financial results by each of our reportable segments:
RMS

------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------- ---- ------- -------- ------- -------- ------------ ------- - ----- - ----- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change Impact of FX
 (in thousands, except percentages)
Revenue $ 739,175 $ 690,437 $ 48,738 7.1 % (3.3) %
Cost of revenue (excluding amortization of intangible assets) 455,607 414,119 41,488 10.0 %
Selling, general and administrative 102,795 93,211 9,584 10.3 %
Amortization of intangible assets 20,363 16,293 4,070 25.0 %
Operating income $ 160,410 $ 166,814 $ (6,404) (3.8) % (3.8) %
Operating income % of revenue 21.7 % 24.2 % (250) bps

RMS revenue increased $48.7 million due primarily to higher research model services revenue, specifically the Insourcing Solutions business, which included the acquisition of Explora BioLabs contributing $44.6 million, higher research model product revenue in North America and China, and the impact of the 53rd week, which contributed $7.4 million to revenue; partially offset by the divestiture of RMS Japan, which decreased product revenue by $39.0 million, lower Cell Solutions revenue, and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
RMS operating income decreased $6.4 million compared to fiscal year 2021. RMS operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2022 was 21.7%, a decrease of 250 bps from 24.2% for fiscal year 2021. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased primarily due to the divestiture of RMS Japan, higher operating cost associated with our

47

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Insourcing Solutions and Cell Solutions businesses, a modest COVID-related impact in China, and foreign exchange impact discussed above.
DSA

------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- --------- ---- --------- -------- --------- -------- ------------ ------- - ---- - ----- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change Impact of FX
 (in thousands, except percentages)
Revenue $ 2,447,316 $ 2,107,231 $ 340,085 16.1 % (3.3) %
Cost of revenue (excluding amortization of intangible assets) 1,617,760 1,422,850 194,910 13.7 %
Selling, general and administrative 213,870 192,143 21,727 11.3 %
Amortization of intangible assets 82,797 85,260 (2,463) (2.9) %
Operating income $ 532,889 $ 406,978 $ 125,911 30.9 % (0.3) %
Operating income % of revenue 21.8 % 19.3 % 250 bps

DSA revenue increased $340.1 million due primarily to service revenue which increased in both the Safety Assessment and Discovery Services businesses due principally to increased demand (principally biotechnology clients) and pricing of services; the impact of the 53rd week, which contributed $37.1 million to revenue, and the acquisition of Retrogenix which contributed $3.3 million to Discovery Services revenue; partially offset by the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
DSA operating income increased $125.9 million compared to fiscal year 2021. DSA operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2022 was 21.8%, an increase of 250 bps from 19.3% for fiscal year 2021. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to the contribution of higher revenue described above as well as lower acquisition related costs and adjustments to contingent consideration arrangements related to certain acquisitions; partially offset by higher staffing costs, modest inflationary pressures compared to fiscal year 2021, and foreign exchange impact discussed above.
Manufacturing

------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------- ---- ------- -------- ------- -------- ------------ -------- - ------ - ----- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change Impact of FX
 (in thousands, except percentages)
Revenue $ 789,569 $ 742,492 $ 47,077 6.3 % (4.4) %
Cost of revenue (excluding amortization of intangible assets) 440,042 368,155 71,887 19.5 %
Selling, general and administrative 139,027 104,642 34,385 32.9 %
Amortization of intangible assets 43,416 23,305 20,111 86.3 %
Operating income $ 167,084 $ 246,390 $ (79,306) (32.2) % (5.8) %
Operating income % of revenue 21.2 % 33.2 % (1,200) bps

Manufacturing revenue increased $47.1 million due primarily to our Biologics Solutions business, which includes the CDMO business acquisitions of Cognate and Vigene, which collectively contributed $43.8 million, higher service revenue within our Biologics Testing Solutions business, increased revenue in our Microbial Solutions business (principally due to increased demand of endotoxin products), and the impact of the 53rd week, which contributed $8.2 million to revenue; partially offset by the divestiture of the CDMO Sweden business, which decreased revenue by $9.9 million, and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Manufacturing operating income decreased $79.3 million compared to fiscal year 2021. Manufacturing operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2022 was 21.2%, a decrease of 1,200 bps from 33.2% for fiscal year 2021. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased primarily due to higher amortization of intangible assets, higher operating costs associated with our CDMO acquisitions, the absence of a favorable adjustment related to a contingent consideration arrangement recorded during 2021; partially offset by a favorable ruling from tax authorities on certain indirect tax positions recorded within selling, general and administrative expense and foreign exchange impact discussed above.

48

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Unallocated Corporate

---------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------- ---- --- -------- ------- -------- --------- -------- ----- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change
 (in thousands, except percentages)
Unallocated corporate $ 209,408 $ 230,320 $ (20,912) (9.1) %
Unallocated corporate % of revenue 5.3 % 6.5 % (120) bps

Unallocated corporate costs consist of selling, general and administrative expenses that are not directly related or allocated to the reportable segments. The decrease in unallocated corporate costs of $20.9 million, or 9.1%, compared to fiscal year 2021 is primarily related to decreased costs associated with the evaluation and integration of our acquisition activity. Costs as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2022 was 5.3%, a decrease of 120 bps from 6.5% for fiscal year 2021.
Other Income (Expense)

--------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------- ----------------- -------- -------- --------- -------- - ------- - ------ -

 Fiscal Year
 December 31, 2022 December 25, 2021 $ change % change
 (in thousands, except percentages)
Other income (expense):
Interest income $ 780 $ 652 $ 128 19.6 %
Interest expense (59,291) (73,910) 14,619 (19.8) %
Other income (expense), net 30,523 (35,894) 66,417 (185.0) %
Total other expense, net $ (27,988) $ (109,152) $ 81,164 (74.4) %

Interest expense for fiscal year 2022 was $59.3 million, a decrease of $14.6 million, or 19.8%, compared to $73.9 million in fiscal year 2021. The decrease was due primarily to the absence of $26 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the repayment of the 2026 Senior Notes and related write-off of deferred financing costs incurred in fiscal year 2021, higher foreign currency gains recognized in connection with a debt-related foreign exchange forward contract in fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021; partially offset by higher interest rates on our variable debt in fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021.
Other income, net for fiscal year 2022 was $30.5 million, an increase of $66.4 million, or 185.0%, compared to Other expense, net of $35.9 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase was due primarily to a gain on the divestiture of our Avian business of $123.4 million during fiscal year 2022 compared to a gain on the divestiture of our RMS Japan business of $22.7 million during fiscal year 2021; partially offset by higher foreign currency losses recognized in connection with a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. entity with a different functional currency in fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021, and net losses on our life insurance investments for fiscal year 2022 as compared to gains in fiscal year 2021.
Income Taxes

-------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------- ---- ---- -------- ------ -------- ------- ------ ---- -
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021 $ change % change
 (in thousands, except percentages)
Provision for income taxes $ 130,379 $ 81,873 $ 48,506 59.2 %
Effective tax rate 20.9 % 17.0 % 390 bps

Income tax expense for fiscal year 2022 was $130.4 million, an increase of $48.5 million compared to $81.9 million for fiscal year 2021. Our effective tax rate was 20.9% for fiscal year 2022 compared to 17.0% for fiscal year 2021. The increase in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 was primarily attributable to a decreased tax benefit from stock-based compensation deductions and tax expense related to the divestiture of Avian.

49

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity and Cash Flows
We currently require cash to fund our working capital needs, capital expansion, acquisitions, and to pay our debt, lease, venture capital and strategic equity investments, and pension obligations. Our principal sources of liquidity have been our cash flows from operations, recent divestitures, supplemented by long-term borrowings. Based on our current business plan, we believe that our existing funds, when combined with cash generated from operations and our access to financing resources, are sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future.
The following table presents our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments:

------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------- ----------------- ------- - -------
 December 31, 2022 December 25, 2021
 (in thousands)
Cash and cash equivalents:
Held in U.S. entities $ 15,813 $ 28,157
Held in non-U.S. entities 218,099 213,057
Total cash and cash equivalents 233,912 241,214
Short-term investments:
Held in non-U.S. entities 998 1,063
Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 234,910 $ 242,277

The following table presents our net cash provided by operating activities:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021
 (in thousands)
Net income $ 492,608 $ 398,837
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities 279,586 319,020
Changes in assets and liabilities (152,554) 42,942
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 619,640 $ 760,799

Net cash provided by cash flows from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements related to all of our activities other than investing and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting our net income for (1) non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, loss on debt extinguishment and other financing costs, deferred income taxes, gains and/or losses on venture capital and strategic equity investments, gains and/or losses on divestitures, changes in fair value of contingent consideration, as well as (2) changes in operating assets and liabilities, which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash associated with transactions and when they are recognized in our results of operations. During fiscal year 2022, our cash flows from operations was $619.6 million compared with $760.8 million for fiscal year 2021. The decrease was driven by changes in our working capital balances, principally the timing of our revenue and collections of net contract balances from customers (collectively trade receivables and contract assets, net; deferred revenue; and customer contract deposits) and timing of payments to vendors, increased inventory purchases to support growth initiatives of our businesses, principally Safety Assessment, and higher variable compensation payments in 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021.
The following table presents our net cash used in investing activities:

----------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------- ---- --------- - -----------
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021
 (in thousands)
Acquisitions of businesses and assets, net of cash acquired $ (283,392) $ (1,293,095)
Capital expenditures (324,733) (228,772)
Proceeds from sale of businesses, net 163,275 122,694
Investments, net (153,725) (39,023)
Other, net (9,347) 264
Net cash used in investing activities $ (607,922) $ (1,437,932)

The primary use of cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2022 related to capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, the acquisition of Explora BioLabs, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments;

50

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
partially offset by the proceeds from the divestiture of Avian. The primary use of cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2021 related to the acquisitions of Cognate, Vigene, Distributed Bio, Retrogenix, and certain assets from a distributor, capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments; partially offset by the proceeds from the divestitures of RMS Japan and CDMO Sweden.
The following table presents our net cash used in financing activities:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------- --------- ---- ----------- - ---------
 Fiscal Year
 2022 2021
 (in thousands)
Proceeds from long-term debt and revolving credit facility $ 2,952,430 $ 6,951,113
Payments on long-term debt, revolving credit facility, and finance lease obligations (2,932,636) (6,242,877)
Proceeds from exercises of stock options 25,110 45,652
Purchase of treasury stock (38,651) (40,707)
Payment of debt extinguishment and financing costs — (38,255)
Purchases of additional equity interests, net (30,533) —
Payment of contingent considerations (10,356) (2,328)
Other, net (7,761) —
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (42,397) $ 672,598

For fiscal year 2022, net cash used in financing activities reflected the net proceeds of $19.8 million on our Credit Facility, Senior Notes, and finance lease obligations. Included in the net proceeds are the following amounts:
•Borrowings under our Credit Facility of $300 million, which were used primarily for the acquisition of Explora BioLabs;
•Net repayments of $100 million on our Credit Facility throughout fiscal year 2022;
•Payments of $2.0 billion partially offset by $1.9 billion of proceeds in connection with a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity repaying Euro loans and replacing the Euro loans with U.S. dollar denominated loans. A series of forward currency contracts were executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the U.S. dollar denominated loans. These proceeds and payments are presented as gross financing activities.
Net cash used in financing activities also reflected treasury stock purchases of $38.7 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements, approximately $15 million payment to purchase an additional 10% interest in a subsidiary, $15.7 million payment to acquire the remaining 2% ownership interest in Cognate, $10.4 million of contingent consideration payments, and $5.3 million of dividends paid to noncontrolling interests; partially offset by proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $25.1 million.
For fiscal year 2021, net cash provided by financing activities reflected the net proceeds of $708.2 million on our Credit Facility, Senior Notes, and finance lease obligations. Included in the net proceeds are the following amounts:
•Payments of approximately $147 million on our term loan;
•Proceeds of $1.0 billion from the issuance of the 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes, which were used to prepay our $500 million 2026 Senior Notes;
•Borrowings under our Credit Facility of $1.3 billion, which were used primarily for the acquisitions of Cognate, Vigene, Distributed Bio, Retrogenix and certain assets from a distributor;
•Net payments of $710 million made to our Credit Facility throughout fiscal year 2021;
•Gross proceeds and payments of approximately $1.5 billion, but having a net impact of zero, were incurred as part of amending and restating our Credit Facility;
•Gross proceeds and payments of approximately $3.0 billion in connection with a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity repaying Euro loans and replacing the Euro loans with U.S. dollar denominated loans. A series of forward currency contracts were executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the U.S. dollar denominated loans. These proceeds and payments are presented as gross financing activities.
Net cash provided by financing activities also reflected proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $45.7 million, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $40.7 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. Additionally we paid $21 million of debt

51

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
extinguishment costs associated with the 2026 Senior Notes repayment and $17 million of debt financing costs associated with the 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes issuances and amending and restating the Credit Agreement.
Financing and Market Risk
We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect our future results of operations and financial condition. We manage our exposure to these risks through our regular operating and financing activities.
Amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility and our Senior Notes were as follows:

--------------------------- ----------------- --------- ----------------- ------- - ---------
 December 31, 2022 December 25, 2021
 (in thousands)
Revolving facility $ 1,197,586 $ 1,161,431
4.25% Senior Notes due 2028 500,000 500,000
3.75% Senior Notes due 2029 500,000 500,000
4.0% Senior Notes due 2031 500,000 500,000
Total $ 2,697,586 $ 2,661,431

The interest rates applicable to the Credit Facility are equal to (A) for revolving loans denominated in U.S. dollars, at our option, either the base rate (which is the higher of (1) the prime rate, (2) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, or (3) the one-month adjusted LIBOR rate plus 1%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate, (B) for revolving loans denominated in euros, the adjusted EURIBOR rate and (C) for revolving loans denominated in sterling, the daily simple SONIA rate, in each case, plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage ratio.
Our 2028 Senior Notes have semi annual interest payments due May 1 and November 1. Our 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes have semi annual interest payments due March 15 and September 15.
During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2022, we entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $500.0 million to manage interest rate fluctuation related to our floating rate borrowings under the Credit Facility, at a fixed rate of 4.700% making the total interest rate 5.825% at our current spread. We designated this derivative instrument as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract and expect it to be highly effective.
Our off-balance sheet commitments related to our outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2022 were $18.6 million.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
We operate on a global basis and have exposure to some foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
While the financial results of our global activities are reported in U.S. dollars, our foreign subsidiaries typically conduct their operations in their respective local currency. The principal functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are the Euro, British Pound, and Canadian Dollar. During fiscal year 2022, the most significant drivers of foreign currency translation adjustment we recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss) were the British Pound, Euro, Canadian Dollar, and Hungarian Forint.
Fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates of the countries in which we do business will affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. As the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the value of our non-U.S. revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities, and cash flows will generally decline when reported in U.S. dollars. The impact to net income as a result of a U.S. dollar strengthening will be partially mitigated by the value of non-U.S. expenses, which will decline when reported in U.S. dollars. As the U.S. dollar weakens versus other currencies, the value of the non-U.S. revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities, and cash flows will generally increase when reported in U.S. dollars. For fiscal year 2022, our revenue would have decreased by $118.2 million and our operating income would have decreased by $4.0 million, if the U.S. dollar exchange rate had strengthened by 10%, with all other variables held constant.
We attempt to minimize this exposure by using certain financial instruments in accordance with our overall risk management and our hedge policy. We do not enter into speculative derivative agreements.
We entered into foreign exchange forward contracts during fiscal years December 31, 2022 and 2021 to limit our foreign currency exposure related to a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity under the Credit Facility. Refer to Note 8. Debt and Other Financing Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding these types of forward contracts.

52

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Repurchases of Common Stock
During fiscal year 2022, we did not repurchase any shares under our authorized $1.3 billion stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2022, we had $129.1 million remaining on the authorized stock repurchase program. Our stock-based compensation plans permit the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units, and performance share units in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. During fiscal year 2022, we acquired $0.1 million shares for $38.7 million through such netting.
Commitments and Other Purchasing Arrangements
We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. In addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay additional amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2022, we had $622.6 million of operating leases inclusive of future minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, net of income from subleases as well as $43.8 million of financing leases.
In addition to the obligations on the balance sheet at December 31, 2022, we entered into unconditional purchase obligations in the ordinary course of business. Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable at any time without penalty. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $375 million of unconditional purchase obligations, the majority of which are expected to be settled during 2023.
We invest in several venture capital funds that invest in start-up companies, primarily in the life sciences industry. Our total commitment to the funds as of December 31, 2022 was $193.1 million, of which we funded $127.8 million through December 31, 2022.
Refer to Note 5. Venture Capital and Strategic Equity Investments to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.
In connection with certain business and asset acquisitions, we agreed to make additional payments based upon the achievement of certain financial targets and other milestones in connection with the respective acquisition. As of December 31, 2022 we had approximately $57 million of gross contingent payments, of which $13 million are expected to be paid.
We have certain federal and state income tax liabilities of $43.1 million relating to the one-time Transition Tax on unrepatriated earnings under the 2017 Tax Act. The Transition Tax will be paid, interest free, over an eight-year period through 2026.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Refer to Note 8]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105  Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[Refer to Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[discussed in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Refer to Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Refer to Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20