================================================================================
CIK: 0001466258
Company Name: Trane Technologies plc
Filing Date: 2023-02-10
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 09:08:24
================================================================================

Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Annual Report.
This section discusses 2022 and 2021 significant items affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity and provides a year-to-year comparison between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of 2020 significant items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 have been excluded in this Form 10-K and can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2021.
Overview
Organizational
Trane Technologies plc is a global climate innovator. We bring sustainable and efficient solutions to buildings, homes and transportation through our strategic brands, Trane® and Thermo King®, and our environmentally responsible portfolio of products, services and connected intelligent controls.
2030 Sustainability Commitments
Our commitment to sustainability extends to the environmental and social impacts of our people, operations, products and services. We have announced ambitious 2030 Sustainability Commitments, including our Gigaton Challenge to reduce customers' carbon emissions by a billion metric tons. We are one of a handful of companies whose emissions reductions targets have been validated three times by the SBTi, and one of the very few companies worldwide whose net-zero targets have also been validated. We are Leading by Example as we make progress toward carbon-neutral operations and zero waste-to-landfill across our global footprint and net positive water use in water-stressed locations. Our Opportunity for All commitment focuses on gender parity in leadership, workforce diversity reflective of our communities, and a citizenship strategy that helps underserved communities through enhanced learning environments and pathways to green and Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) careers.
Recent Acquisitions
On October 31, 2022, we completed the acquisition of AL-KO Air Technology (AL-KO). AL-KO brings complementary, high-performing solutions to the comprehensive Trane Commercial HVAC product and services portfolios in Europe and Asia. The results of the acquisition are reported within the EMEA and Asia Pacific segments.
On April 1, 2022, we completed a channel acquisition of a Commercial HVAC independent dealer to support our ongoing strategy to expand our distribution network and service area. The results of the channel acquisition are reported within the Americas segment.
Significant Events
Reorganization of Aldrich and Murray
On June 18, 2020 (Petition Date), our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, Aldrich and Murray each filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to the imposition of a statutory automatic stay applicable in Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases. Only Aldrich and Murray have filed for Chapter 11 relief. Neither Aldrich's wholly-owned subsidiary, 200 Park, Murray's wholly-owned subsidiary, ClimateLabs, nor the Trane Companies are part of the Chapter 11 filings.
The goal of these Chapter 11 filings is to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos-related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants, Aldrich and Murray through court approval of a plan of reorganization that would create a trust pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, establish claims resolution procedures for all current and future asbestos-related claims against Aldrich and Murray and channel such claims to the trust for resolution in accordance with those procedures.
Aldrich and its wholly-owned subsidiary 200 Park and Murray and its wholly-owned subsidiary ClimateLabs were deconsolidated as of the Petition Date and their respective assets and liabilities were derecognized from our Consolidated Financial Statements.

27

Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2021, in connection with the agreement in principle reached by Aldrich and Murray with the FCR and the motion filed on September 24, 2021 to create a $270.0 million "qualified settlement fund" within the meaning of the Treasury Regulations under Section 468B of the Internal Revenue Code (QSF), we recorded a charge of $21.2 million to increase our Funding Agreement liability to $270.0 million. The corresponding charge was bifurcated between Other income/ (expense), net of $7.2 million relating to Murray and discontinued operations of $14.0 million relating to Aldrich.
On January 27, 2022, the Bankruptcy Court granted the request to fund the QSF, which was funded on March 2, 2022, resulting in an operating cash outflow of $270.0 million in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, of which $91.8 million was allocated to continuing operations and $178.2 million was allocated to discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. At this point in the Chapter 11 cases of Aldrich and Murray, it is not possible to predict whether the Bankruptcy Court will approve the terms of the Plan, what the extent of the asbestos liability will be or how long the Chapter 11 cases will last. The Chapter 11 cases remain pending as of February 10, 2023.
For detailed information on the bankruptcy cases of Aldrich and Murray, see Part I, Item 1, "Business - Asbestos-Related Matters," Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Litigation," Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and Part II, Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, "Description of Company," and Note 20, "Commitments and Contingencies."
Trends and Economic Events
We are a global corporation with worldwide operations. As a global business, our operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic factors as well as political and social factors wherever we operate or do business. Our geographic diversity and the breadth of our product and services portfolios have helped mitigate the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results.
Given our broad range of products manufactured and geographic markets served, management uses a variety of factors to predict the outlook for the Company. We monitor key competitors and customers in order to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. We regularly perform detailed evaluations of the different market segments we are serving to proactively detect trends and to adapt our strategies accordingly, including potential triggers and actions to be taken under recessionary scenarios. In addition, we believe our backlog and order levels are indicative of future revenue and thus are a key measure of anticipated performance.
Current economic conditions remain mixed across our end markets. The COVID-19 global pandemic continues to impact both the global Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) and Transport end markets as disruptions and delays in the global supply chain and resource constraints continue to be experienced. However, despite these challenges, overall end market demand remained healthy as we continued to proactively manage global supply chain and resource constraints by working closely with our suppliers, customers and logistics providers to mitigate the impacts on our business as we continue to sell, install and service our products.
We expect market conditions to remain mixed across the geographies where we serve our customers as the impact from COVID-19 eases; however, macroeconomic events including the material cost, wage and energy inflation and tightening financial conditions, as a result of higher interest rates, could increase the likelihood of deteriorating economic conditions which could have a negative impact on our business. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and other macro economic conditions continue to impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Economic Conditions," for more information.
Furthermore, when Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, we immediately halted new orders and shipments into and out of Russia and Belarus. As of December 31, 2022, we have exited all business activity within these markets. To date, the Russia-Ukraine war has not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance. See Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors for more information.
We believe we have a solid foundation of global brands that are highly differentiated in all of our major product lines. Our geographic and product diversity coupled with our large installed product base provides growth opportunities within our service and corresponding parts and replacement revenue streams. In addition, we are investing substantial resources to innovate and develop new products and services which we expect will drive our future growth.

28

Table of Contents
Results of Operations
Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2021 - Consolidated Results

----------------------------------- ---------- -------- ---- --------- ------------- -------- ------------------ ------------------ ------- -----
Dollar amounts in millions 2022 2021 Period Change 2022 % of revenues 2021 % of revenues
Net revenues $ 15,991.7 $ 14,136.4 $ 1,855.3
Cost of goods sold (11,026.9) (9,666.8) (1,360.1) 69.0% 68.4%
Gross profit 4,964.8 4,469.6 495.2 31.0% 31.6%
Selling and administrative expenses (2,545.9) (2,446.3) (99.6) 15.9% 17.3%
Operating income 2,418.9 2,023.3 395.6 15.1% 14.3%
Interest expense (223.5) (233.7) 10.2
Other income/(expense), net (23.3) 1.1 (24.4)
Earnings before income taxes 2,172.1 1,790.7 381.4
Provision for income taxes (375.9) (333.5) (42.4)
Earnings from continuing operations 1,796.2 1,457.2 339.0
Discontinued operations, net of tax (21.5) (20.6) (0.9)
Net earnings $ 1,774.7 $ 1,436.6 $ 338.1

Net Revenues
Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 13.1%, or $1,855.3 million, compared with the same period of 2021.
The components of the period change were as follows:

-------------------- ----- -
Pricing 9.6 %
Volume 4.9 %
Acquisitions 0.8 %
Currency translation (2.2) %
Total 13.1 %

The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by inflation-based price increases, end customer demand within all our reportable segments and incremental revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Pricing and volume increases were experienced in all segments. Refer to “Results by Segment” below for a discussion of Net revenues by segment.
Gross Profit Margin
Gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased 60 basis points to 31.0% compared to 31.6% for the same period of 2021 primarily due to significant direct material, freight and other inflation, and unfavorable impacts to productivity arising from supply chain, freight and logistics challenges, partially offset by inflation-based price increases.
Selling and Administrative Expenses
Selling and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 4.1%, or $99.6 million, compared with the same period of 2021. The increase in Selling and administrative expenses was primarily driven by an increase in human capital related costs as a result of investing in our people, travel costs and amortization due to acquisitions, partially offset by favorable non-cash adjustments to contingent consideration of $46.9 million.
Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased 140 basis points from 17.3% to 15.9% primarily due to higher revenues year-over-year.
Interest Expense
Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased by 4.4% or $10.2 million compared with the same period of 2021 primarily due to the repayments of $125.0 million of 9.000% Debentures in August 2021 and $300.0 million of 2.900% Senior notes in February 2021.

29

Table of Contents
Other Income/(Expense), Net
The components of Other income/(expense), net, for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

------------------------------------------------------ ------ ------ ---- ------ - ---
In millions 2022 2021
Interest income $ 9.2 $ 4.0
Foreign currency exchange loss (17.9) (10.7)
Other components of net periodic benefit credit/(cost) (10.6) (1.6)

Other activity, net (4.0) 9.4
Other income/(expense), net $ (23.3) $ 1.1

Other income /(expense), net includes the results from activities other than normal business operations such as interest income and foreign currency gains and losses on transactions that are denominated in a currency other than an entity’s functional currency. In addition, we include the components of net periodic benefit credit/(cost) for pension and post retirement obligations other than the service cost component. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a $15.0 million settlement charge for a compensation related payment to a retired executive within other components of net periodic benefit credit/(cost). Other activity, net primarily includes items associated with certain legal matters, as well as asbestos-related activities of Murray. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded a gain of $12.8 million related to the release of a pension indemnification liability, partially offset by a charge of $7.2 million to increase our Funding Agreement liability from asbestos-related activities of Murray.
Provision for Income Taxes
The 2022 effective tax rate was 17.3% which was lower than the U.S. Statutory rate of 21% due to a $48.2 million reduction in valuation allowances primarily related to certain net state deferred tax assets resulting from U.S. legal entity restructurings and deferred tax assets associated with foreign tax credits as a result of an increase in the current year amount of creditable foreign source income. Additional tax benefits included in this year's effective rate are $12.4 million, net related to the current year's effects of a prepayment of an intercompany obligation in 2021, excess tax benefits from employee share-based payments and earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective tax rate. These amounts were partially offset by U.S. state and local taxes and certain non-deductible employee expenses. Revenues from non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for approximately 28% of our total 2022 revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income was earned and taxed outside the U.S. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. When comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability in our overall effective tax rate.
The 2021 effective tax rate was 18.6% which was lower than the U.S. Statutory rate of 21% due to a $21.4 million reduction in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets primarily related to foreign tax credits as a result of an increase in current year foreign source income, excess tax benefits from employee share-based payments, and earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which in aggregate have a lower effective tax rate. These amounts were partially offset by the recognition of a net $11.6 million tax expense related to a prepayment of an intercompany obligation, U.S. state and local taxes and certain non-deductible employee expenses. Revenues from non-U.S. jurisdictions accounted for approximately 29.0% of our total 2021 revenues, such that a material portion of our pretax income was earned and taxed outside the U.S. at rates ranging from 0% to 38%. When comparing the results of multiple reporting periods, among other factors, the mix of earnings between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions can cause variability in our overall effective tax rate.
Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2021 - Segment Results
We operate under four regional operating segments designed to create deep customer focus and relevance in markets around the world. The Company determined that its two Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) operating segments meet the aggregation criteria based on similar operating and economic characteristics, resulting in one reportable segment. Therefore, the Company has three regional reportable segments, Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific.
•Our Americas segment innovates for customers in North America and Latin America. The Americas segment encompasses commercial heating, cooling and ventilation systems, building controls, and energy services and solutions; residential heating and cooling; and transport refrigeration systems and solutions.
•Our EMEA segment innovates for customers in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. The EMEA segment encompasses heating, cooling and ventilation systems, services and solutions for commercial buildings, and transport refrigeration systems and solutions.
•Our Asia Pacific segment innovates for customers throughout the Asia Pacific region. The Asia Pacific segment encompasses heating, cooling and ventilation systems, services and solutions for commercial buildings and transport refrigeration systems and solutions.

30

Table of Contents
Management measures segment operating performance based on net earnings excluding interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring, non-cash adjustments for contingent consideration, insurance settlement on property claim in Q3 2022, merger and acquisition-related costs, unallocated corporate expenses and discontinued operations (Segment Adjusted EBITDA). Segment Adjusted EBITDA is not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for net earnings or other results reported in accordance with GAAP. We believe Segment Adjusted EBITDA provides the most relevant measure of profitability as well as earnings power and the ability to generate cash. This measure is a useful financial metric to assess our operating performance from period to period by excluding certain items that we believe are not representative of our core business and we use this measure for business planning purposes. Segment Adjusted EBITDA also provides a useful tool for assessing the comparability between periods and our ability to generate cash from operations sufficient to pay taxes, to service debt and to undertake capital expenditures because it eliminates non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization expense.
The following discussion compares our results for each of our three reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.

------------------------------------------------------------- ------- -------- ---- ------- - -------- -------- ----- - ---- -
Dollar amounts in millions 2022 2021 % Change

Americas
Net revenues $ 12,640.8 $ 10,957.1 15.4 %
Segment Adjusted EBITDA 2,326.3 2,008.8 15.8 %
Segment Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues 18.4 % 18.3 %

EMEA
Net revenues $ 2,034.5 $ 1,944.9 4.6 %
Segment Adjusted EBITDA 338.1 359.2 (5.9) %
Segment Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues 16.6 % 18.5 %

Asia Pacific
Net revenues $ 1,316.4 $ 1,234.4 6.6 %
Segment Adjusted EBITDA 248.3 228.5 8.7 %
Segment Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues 18.9 % 18.5 %

Total Net revenues $ 15,991.7 $ 14,136.4 13.1 %
Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA 2,912.7 2,596.5 12.2 %
Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues 18.2 % 18.4 %

31

Table of Contents
Americas
Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 15.4% or $1,683.7 million, compared with the same period of 2021.
The components of the period change were as follows:

-------------------- ----- -
Pricing 10.7 %
Volume 4.2 %
Acquisitions 0.7 %
Currency translation (0.2) %
Total 15.4 %

The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by inflation-based price increases, higher volumes driven by increased end-customer demand and incremental revenues from acquisitions.
Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 10 basis points to 18.4% compared to 18.3% for the same period of 2021 primarily due to favorable pricing, volume and productivity largely offset by higher material costs, other inflation and higher costs to serve customers arising from supply chain, freight and logistics challenges.
EMEA
Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 4.6% or $89.6 million, compared with the same period of 2021.
The components of the period change were as follows:

-------------------- ------ -
Pricing 7.1 %
Volume 7.4 %
Acquisitions 1.2 %
Currency translation (11.1) %
Total 4.6 %

The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes driven by increased end-customer demand, inflation-based price increases and incremental revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the unfavorable currency translation. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation and acquisitions, Net revenues increased by 14.5%
Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased by 190 basis points to 16.6% compared to 18.5% for the same period of 2021 primarily due to favorable pricing, volume and productivity, more than offset by higher material costs, other inflation and higher costs to serve customers arising from supply chain, freight and logistics challenges.
Asia Pacific
Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 6.6% or $82.0 million, compared with the same period of 2021.
The components of the period change were as follows:

-------------------- ----- -
Pricing 3.4 %
Volume 8.4 %
Acquisitions 0.7 %
Currency translation (5.9) %
Total 6.6 %

The increase in Net revenues was primarily driven by higher volumes related to increased end-customer demand. Inflation-based price increases and incremental revenues from acquisitions were partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation and acquisitions, Net revenues increased by 11.8%.
Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by 40 basis points to 18.9% compared to 18.5% for the same period of 2021 primarily due to favorable pricing, volume and productivity, partially offset by higher material costs, other inflation and higher costs to serve customers arising from supply chain, freight and logistics challenges.

32

Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. In doing so, we review and analyze our current cash on hand, the number of days our sales are outstanding, inventory turns, capital expenditure commitments and income tax payments. Our cash requirements primarily consist of the following:
•Funding of working capital
•Debt service requirements
•Funding of capital expenditures
•Dividend payments
•Funding of acquisitions, joint ventures and equity investments
•Share repurchases
Our primary sources of liquidity include cash balances on hand, cash flows from operations, proceeds from debt offerings, commercial paper, and borrowing availability under our existing credit facilities. We earn a significant amount of our operating income in jurisdictions where it is deemed to be permanently reinvested. Our most prominent jurisdiction of operation is the U.S. We expect existing cash and cash equivalents available to the U.S. operations, the cash generated by our U.S. operations, our committed credit lines as well as our expected ability to access the capital and debt markets will be sufficient to fund our U.S. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents and the cash generated by our non-U.S. operations will be sufficient to fund our non-U.S. operating and capital needs for at least the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. The maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, under the commercial paper program is $2.0 billion, of which we had no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2022.
As of December 31, 2022, we had $1,220.5 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, of which $814.5 million was held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries are generally available for use in our U.S. operations via intercompany loans, equity infusions or via distributions from direct or indirectly owned non-U.S. subsidiaries for which we do not assert permanent reinvestment. As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017, additional repatriation opportunities to access cash and cash equivalents held by non-U.S. subsidiaries have been created. In general, repatriation of cash to the U.S. can be completed with no significant incremental U.S. tax. However, to the extent that we repatriate funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries for which we assert permanent reinvestment to fund our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue and pay applicable non-U.S. taxes. As of December 31, 2022, we currently have no plans to repatriate funds from subsidiaries for which we assert permanent reinvestment.
Share repurchases are made from time to time in accordance with management's balanced capital allocation strategy, subject to market conditions and regulatory requirements. In February 2022, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of its ordinary shares (2022 Authorization) upon the completion of its current share repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion of its ordinary shares which was authorized in 2021 (2021 Authorization). During the year ended December 31, 2022, we repurchased and canceled $1,200.0 million of ordinary shares leaving approximately $200 million remaining under the 2021 Authorization as of December 31, 2022.
We expect to pay a competitive and growing dividend. Since the launch of Trane Technologies in March 2020, we have increased our quarterly share dividend by 26%, from $0.53 to $0.67 per ordinary share, or $2.12 to $2.68 per share annualized. All four 2022 quarterly dividends were paid during the year ended December 31, 2022. In February 2023, our Board of Directors declared an increase in our quarterly share dividend by 12%, from $0.67 to $0.75 per ordinary share, or $2.68 to $3.00 per share annualized starting in the first quarter of 2023.
We continue to actively manage and strengthen our business portfolio to meet the current and future needs of our customers. We achieve this partly through engaging in research and development and sustaining activities and partly through acquisitions. Sustaining activities include costs incurred to reduce production costs, improve existing products, create custom solutions for customers and provide support to our manufacturing facilities. Our research and development and sustaining costs account for approximately two percent of annual Net revenues. Each year, we make investments in new product development and new technology innovation as they are key factors in achieving our strategic objectives as a leader in the climate sector. In addition, we make investments in technology and business for our operational sustainability programs. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we invested in onsite solar energy generation systems at our Pueblo, Colorado and Monterrey, Mexico facilities to generate electricity to offset fossil based electricity purchased from the grid. We ramped up operations of the onsite solar system at our Zhongshan, China facility. Two key factories in China (Taicang and Zhongshan) recently entered into supply agreements to receive a significant quantity of electricity generated from 100 percent renewable sources. We also transitioned to a next generation refrigerant with low global warming potential (GWP) for transport equipment manufactured at our Arecibo, Puerto Rico facility and are actively working to transition to low GWP refrigerant on our first commercial product at our Pueblo, Colorado factory. We also completed a major step to decarbonize our Charmes, France facility by shifting from a natural gas fueled hot water heating system to Trane Technologies’ latest heat pump system. This project is a dual benefit of

33

Table of Contents
reducing Scope 1 carbon and serving as a heat pump system showcase for our customer engagement. These actions represent important steps to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions and improve our customer’s carbon performance over the operating life of Trane Technologies’ cooling equipment. Furthermore, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we also completed implementation of processing equipment for our Tyler, Texas facility to fully achieve zero waste to landfill. These Leading by Example successes did not result in material expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2022.
In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and equity investments. Since 2020, we acquired several businesses, entered into joint ventures and invested in companies that complement existing products and services further enhancing our product portfolio. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we deployed capital of approximately $256 million and $340 million, respectively attributable to acquisitions and equity investments.
We incur costs associated with restructuring initiatives intended to result in improved operating performance, profitability and working capital levels. Actions associated with these initiatives may include workforce reductions, improving manufacturing productivity, realignment of management structures and rationalizing certain assets. Post separation, we have reduced costs by approximately $240 million through December 31, 2022 and expect to reduce costs by an additional $60 million by 2023 for a total of $300 million in total annual savings under our transformation initiatives. In order to achieve these cost savings, we anticipate to incur costs up to $150 million through 2023. We have incurred approximately $130 million of costs cumulatively through December 31, 2022. We believe that our existing cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund share repurchases, dividends, research and development, sustaining activities, business portfolio changes and ongoing restructuring actions.
Certain of our subsidiaries entered into Funding Agreements with Aldrich and Murray pursuant to which those subsidiaries are obligated, among other things, to pay the costs and expenses of Aldrich and Murray during the pendency of the Chapter 11 cases to the extent distributions from their respective subsidiaries are insufficient to do so and to provide an amount for the funding for a trust established pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, to the extent that the other assets of Aldrich and Murray are insufficient to provide the requisite trust funding. During the third quarter of 2021, Aldrich and Murray filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court to create a $270.0 million QSF. The funds held in the QSF would be available to provide funding for the Section 524(g) Trust upon effectiveness of the Plan. On January 27, 2022, the Bankruptcy Court granted the request to fund the QSF, which was funded on March 2, 2022.
As the COVID-19 global pandemic impacts both the broader economy and our operations, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs and our ability to access capital markets. A continued worldwide disruption could materially affect economies and financial markets worldwide, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our products, our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms and otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Economic Conditions" for more information.
Liquidity
The following table contains several key measures of our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended December 31:

-------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
In millions 2022 2021
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,220.5 $ 2,159.2
Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 1,048.0 350.4
Long-term debt 3,788.3 4,491.7
Total debt 4,836.3 4,842.1
Total Trane Technologies plc shareholders’ equity 6,088.6 6,255.9
Total equity 6,105.2 6,273.1
Debt-to-total capital ratio 44.2 % 43.6 %

Debt and Credit Facilities
As of December 31, 2022, our short-term obligations primarily consist of current maturities of $699.7 million of long-term debt that matures in June 2023 and $340.8 million of fixed rate debentures that contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. If exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder’s option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. We also maintain a commercial paper program which is used for general corporate purposes. Under the program, the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, is $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2022. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. See Note 7, "Debt and Credit Facilities", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the terms of our short-term obligations.

34

Table of Contents
Our long-term obligations primarily consist of long-term debt with final maturity dates ranging between 2024 and 2049. In addition, we maintain two $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facilities, one of which matures in June 2026 and the other which matures in April 2027. The facilities provide support for our commercial paper program and can be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Total commitments of $2.0 billion were unused at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. See Note 7, "Debt and Credit Facilities", to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further below in Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information for additional information regarding the terms of our long-term obligations and their related guarantees.
Cash Flows
The following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended December 31, respectively. For additional details, please see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

---------------------------------------------------- --------- ------- ---- --------- - -------
In millions 2022 2021
Net cash provided by continuing operating activities $ 1,698.7 $ 1,594.4
Net cash used in continuing investing activities (539.8) (545.7)
Net cash used in continuing financing activities (1,852.2) (2,127.6)

Operating Activities
Net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $1,698.7 million, of which net income provided $2,248.8 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1,594.4 million, of which net income provided $1,837.5 million after adjusting for non-cash transactions. The year-over-year increase in net cash provided by continuing operating activities was primarily due to higher net earnings, partially offset by higher working capital balances in the current year, the funding of the continuing operations component of the QSF for $91.8 million and a compensation related payment to a retired executive.
Investing Activities
Cash flows from investing activities represents inflows and outflows regarding the purchase and sale of assets. Primary activities associated with these items include capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment, acquisitions, investments in joint ventures and divestitures. During the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $539.8 million. The primary drivers of the usage was attributable to capital expenditures of $291.8 million and acquisition of businesses, which totaled $234.7 million, net of cash acquired. During the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $545.7 million. The primary drivers of the usage was attributable to the acquisition of businesses, which totaled $269.2 million, net of cash acquired, $223.0 million of capital expenditures and other investing activities of $68.6 million, primarily related to investment in several companies that complement existing products and services further enhancing our product portfolio.
Financing Activities
Cash flows from financing activities represent inflows and outflows that account for external activities affecting equity and debt. Primary activities associated with these actions include paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing our own shares, issuing our stock and debt transactions. During the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1,852.2 million. The primary drivers of the outflow related to the repurchase of $1,200.2 million in ordinary shares and dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of $620.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $2,127.6 million. The primary driver of the outflow related to the repurchase of $1,100.3 million in ordinary shares, dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of $561.1 million and the repayment of long-term debt of $432.5 million.

35

Table of Contents
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and defined as Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities adjusted for capital expenditures, cash payments for restructuring, transformation costs, the continuing operations component of the QSF funding and payout of executive compensation less an insurance settlement on a property claim in Q3 2022. This measure is useful to management and investors because it is consistent with management's assessment of our operating cash flow performance. The most comparable GAAP measure to free cash flow is Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities. Free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies and should not be considered a substitute for Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities in accordance with GAAP.
A reconciliation of Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities to free cash flow the years ended December 31 is as follows:

-------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
In millions 2022 2021
Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operating activities $ 1,698.7 $ 1,594.4
Capital expenditures (291.8) (223.0)
Cash payments for restructuring 17.9 38.1
Transformation costs paid 9.6 21.4
QSF funding (continuing operations component) 91.8 —
Compensation related payment to a retired executive 64.3 —
Insurance settlement on property claim in Q3 2022 (25.0) —
Free cash flow (1) $ 1,565.5 $ 1,430.9

(1) Represents a non-GAAP measure.
Pension Plans
Our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. We seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contribution and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. Our approach to asset allocation is to increase fixed income assets as the plan's funded status improves. We monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. In addition, we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. None of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to market volatility. See Note 11, "Pension and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pensions.

Capital Resources
Based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected ability to access capital markets will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases, upcoming debt maturities, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for the foreseeable future.
Capital expenditures were $291.8 million, $223.0 million and $146.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs, provide environmental enhancements, upgrade information technology infrastructure and security and advanced technologies for existing facilities. The capital expenditure program for 2023 is estimated to be approximately 1.5% to 2.0% of revenues, including amounts approved in prior periods. Many of these projects are subject to review and cancellation at our option without incurring substantial charges.
For financial market risk impacting the Company, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk."

36

Table of Contents
Capitalization
In addition to cash on hand and operating cash flow, we maintain significant credit availability under our Commercial Paper Program. Our ability to borrow at a cost-effective rate under the Commercial Paper Program is contingent upon maintaining an investment-grade credit rating. As of December 31, 2022, our credit ratings were as follows, remaining unchanged from 2021:

------------------- ---------- ---------
 Short-term Long-term
Moody’s P-2 Baa2
Standard and Poor’s A-2 BBB

The credit ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
Our public debt does not contain financial covenants and our revolving credit lines have a debt-to-total capital covenant of 65%. As of December 31, 2022, our debt-to-total capital ratio was significantly beneath this limit.
Contractual Obligations
Our contractual cash obligations include required payments of long-term debt principal and interest, purchase obligations and expected obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. In addition, we have required payments of operating leases, income taxes and expected obligations under the Funding agreement, environmental and product liability matters. For additional information regarding leases, income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits, and contingent liabilities, see Note 10 "Leases", Note 16 "Income Taxes" and Note 20 "Commitments and Contingencies", respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations.
Debt
At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding aggregate long-term debt principal payments of $4,863.0 million, with $1,048.3 million payable within 12 months. The amount payable within 12 months includes $340.8 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. The scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. Future interest payments on long-term debt total $2,186.5 million, with $199.7 million payable within 12 months. See Note 7, "Debt and Credit Facilities", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.
Purchase Obligations
Purchase obligations include commitments under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders. At December 31, 2022, we had purchase obligations of $1,239.2 million, which are primarily payable within 12 months.
Pensions
It is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. We currently expect that we will contribute approximately $69 million to our enterprise plans worldwide in 2023. The timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. See Note 11, "Pensions and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pensions.
Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions
We fund postretirement benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. Benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and Medicare Part D subsidy, are expected to be approximately $35 million in 2023. See Note 11, "Pensions and Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding postretirement benefits other than pensions.

37

Table of Contents
Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information
Trane Technologies plc (Plc or Parent Company) and certain of its 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries provide guarantees of public debt issued by other 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries of Plc. The following table shows our guarantor relationships as of December 31, 2022:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
Parent, issuer or guarantors Notes issued Notes guaranteed
Trane Technologies plc (Plc) None All registered notes and debentures
Trane Technologies Irish Holdings Unlimited Company (TT Holdings) None All notes issued by TTFL and TTC HoldCo
Trane Technologies Lux International Holding Company S.à.r.l. (TT International) None All notes issued by TTFL and TTC HoldCo
Trane Technologies Global Holding Company Limited (TT Global) None All notes issued by TTFL and TTC HoldCo
Trane Technologies Financing Limited(TTFL) 3.550% Senior notes due 20243.500% Senior notes due 20263.800% Senior notes due 20294.650% Senior notes due 20444.500% Senior notes due 2049 All notes and debentures issued by TTC HoldCo and TTC
Trane Technologies HoldCo Inc. (TTC HoldCo) 4.250% Senior notes due 20233.750% Senior notes due 20285.750% Senior notes due 20434.300% Senior notes due 2048 All notes issued by TTFL
Trane Technologies Company LLC (TTC) 7.200% Debentures due 2023-20256.480% Debentures due 2025Puttable debentures due 2027-2028 All notes issued by TTFL and TTC HoldCo

Each subsidiary debt issuer and guarantor is owned 100% directly or indirectly by the Parent Company. Each guarantee is full and unconditional, and provided on a joint and several basis. There are no significant restrictions of the Parent Company, or any guarantor, to obtain funds from its subsidiaries, such as provisions in debt agreements that prohibit dividend payments, loans or advances to the parent by a subsidiary. The following tables present summarized financial information for the Parent Company and subsidiary debt issuers and guarantors on a combined basis (together, "obligor group") after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances based on the Company’s legal entity ownerships and guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2022. Our obligor groups as of December 31, 2022 were as follows: Obligor group 1 consists of Plc, TT Holdings, TT International, TT Global, TTFL, TTC HoldCo and TTC; Obligor group 2 consists of Plc, TTFL and TTC.
Summarized Statements of Earnings

----------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------- --------------- ------ - ------
 Year ended December 31, 2022
In millions Obligor group 1 Obligor group 2
Net revenues $ — $ —
Gross profit (loss) — —
Intercompany interest and fees (44.2) 224.5
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations (644.3) (28.9)
Discontinued operations, net of tax (14.4) (19.5)
Net earnings (loss) (658.7) (48.4)
Less: Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests — —
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Trane Technologies plc $ (658.7) $ (48.4)

38

Table of Contents
Summarized Balance Sheet

----------------------------- ----------------- ----- --------------- ------- - -------
 December 31, 2022
In millions Obligor group 1 Obligor group 2
ASSETS
Intercompany receivables $ 860.0 $ 1,092.1
Current assets 1,011.6 1,231.7
Intercompany notes receivable 1,831.9 4,781.6
Noncurrent assets 2,582.3 5,383.1
LIABILITIES
Intercompany payables 3,303.5 1,792.1
Current liabilities 4,851.8 2,611.9
Intercompany notes payable 2,400.0 2,400.0
Noncurrent liabilities 6,789.8 5,433.4

Critical Accounting Estimates
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. These estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from these estimates. If updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known.
The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical.
•Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets – We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet related to acquisitions. These assets are tested and reviewed annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. In addition, an interim impairment test is completed upon a triggering event or when there is a reorganization of reporting structure or disposal of all or a portion of a reporting unit.
The determination of estimated fair value requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. We developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. The estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows.
Annual Goodwill Impairment Test
Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level. The test compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit.
As quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair value is determined using three valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (an income approach), a market-adjusted multiple of earnings and revenues (a market approach), and a similar transactions method (also a market approach). The discounted cash flow approach relies on our estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. The multiple of earnings and revenues approach reflects the market's expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the guideline publicly traded companies and the subject reporting units. The similar transactions method considers prices paid in transactions that have recently occurred in our industry or in related industries. These valuation techniques are weighted 50%, 40% and 10%, respectively.

39

Table of Contents
Under the income approach, we assumed a forecasted cash flow period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 12.0% and a terminal growth rate of 3.0% Under the guideline public company method, we used an adjusted multiple ranging from 9.0 to 17.5 of projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) based on the market information of comparable companies. Additionally, we compared the estimated aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our overall market capitalization. For all reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) exceeded 200%. A significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units
Other Indefinite-lived intangible assets
Other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis. The fair value of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is determined on a relief from royalty methodology (income approach) which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. The present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e., royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. Any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value would be recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess.
In testing our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assumed forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 10.0% to 14.0%, terminal growth rates of 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 4.5%. For all indefinite-lived intangible assets, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) exceeded 25%. A significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our tradenames.
•Business combinations - Acquisitions that meet the definition of a business combination are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting. We include the operating results of acquired entities from their respective dates of acquisition. We recognize and measure the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration relating to potential earnout provisions. and any non-controlling interest as of the acquisition date fair value. The valuation of intangible assets is determined using an income approach methodology. We use assumptions to value the intangible assets including projected future revenues, customer attrition rates, royalty rates, tax rates and discount rates. The excess, if any, of total consideration transferred in a business combination over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest is recognized as goodwill. Costs incurred as a result of a business combination other than costs related to the issuance of debt or equity securities are recorded in the period the costs are incurred.
Contingent consideration
We assess any contingent consideration included in the consideration paid of a business combination. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections on revenue under various potential scenarios, in which a Monte Carlo simulation model runs many iterations based on comparable companies' revenue growth rates and their implied revenue volatilities. These cash flow projections are discounted with a risk adjusted rate. Each quarter until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment, specifically revenue growth rates, implied revenue volatilities and discount rates.
•Asbestos matters – Prior to the Petition Date, certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies were named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. We recorded a liability for our actual and anticipated future claims as well as an asset for anticipated insurance settlements. We performed a detailed analysis and projected an estimated range of the total liability for pending and unasserted future asbestos-related claims. We recorded the liability at the low end of the range as we believed that no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount. Our key assumptions underlying the estimated asbestos-related liabilities included the number of people occupationally exposed and likely to develop asbestos-related diseases such as mesothelioma and lung cancer, the number of people likely to file an asbestos-related personal injury claim against us, the average settlement and resolution of each claim and the percentage of claims resolved with no payment. Asbestos-related defense costs were excluded from the asbestos claims liability and were recorded separately as services were incurred. None of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. We recorded certain income and expenses associated with our asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries within Discontinued operations, net of tax, as they related to previously divested businesses, except for amounts associated with asbestos liabilities and corresponding insurance recoveries of Murray and its predecessors, which were recorded within continuing operations.

40

Table of Contents
•Revenue recognition – Revenue is recognized when control of a good or service promised in a contract (i.e., performance obligation) is transferred to a customer. Control is obtained when a customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from that good or service. A majority of our revenues are recognized at a point-in-time as control is transferred at a distinct point in time per the terms of a contract. However, a portion of our revenues are recognized over time as the customer simultaneously receives control as we perform work under a contract. For these arrangements, the cost-to-cost input method is used as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs.
The transaction price allocated to performance obligations reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from a customer. To determine the transaction price, variable and non-cash consideration are assessed as well as whether a significant financing component exists. We include variable consideration in the estimated transaction price when it is probable that significant reversal of revenue recognized would not occur when the uncertainty associated with variable consideration is subsequently resolved. We consider historical data in determining our best estimates of variable consideration, and the related accruals are recorded using the expected value method.
We enter into sales arrangements that contain multiple goods and services. For these arrangements, each good or service is evaluated to determine whether it represents a distinct performance obligation and whether the sales price for each obligation is representative of standalone selling price. If available, we utilize observable prices for goods or services sold separately to similar customers in similar circumstances to evaluate relative standalone selling price. List prices are used if they are determined to be representative of standalone selling prices. Where necessary, we ensure that the total transaction price is then allocated to the distinct performance obligations based on the determination of their relative standalone selling price at the inception of the arrangement.
We recognize revenue for delivered goods or services when the delivered good or service is distinct, control of the good or service has transferred to the customer, and only customary refund or return rights related to the goods or services exist. For extended warranties and long-term service agreements, revenue for these distinct performance obligations are recognized over time on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term.
•Income taxes – Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. We regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. Where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to a future tax benefit.
The provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. We will adjust our estimate if significant events so dictate. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved.
•Employee benefit plans – We provide a range of benefits to eligible employees and retirees, including pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefits. Determining the cost associated with such benefits is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality, turnover rates and healthcare cost trend rates. Actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with GAAP. Actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally accumulated and amortized into earnings over future periods. We review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends, if appropriate. The discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. We believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors.

41

Table of Contents
Changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension cost or postretirement benefit cost. Estimated sensitivities to the expected 2023 net periodic pension cost of a 0.25% rate decline in the two basic assumptions are as follows: the decline in the discount rate would increase expense by $0.4 million and the decline in the estimated return on assets would increase expense by $4.9 million. A 0.25% rate decrease in the discount rate for postretirement benefits would increase expected 2023 net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $0.3 million.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- 

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ 

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[see Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[see Part II, Item 7A]:
ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 3]:
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 48

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part II, Item 7A]:
ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42

[discussed under Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2021.
Overview
Organizational
Trane Technologies plc is a global climate innovator. We bring sustainable and efficient solutions to buildings, homes and transportation through our strategic brands, Trane® and Thermo King®, and our environmentally responsible portfolio of products, services and connected intelligent controls.
2030 Sustainability Commitments
Our commitment to sustainability extends to the environmental and social impacts of our people, operations, products and services. We have announced ambitious 2030 Sustainability Commitments, including our Gigaton Challenge to reduce customers']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

['s results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. See Part I, Item 1A, "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of its ordinary shares (2022 Authorization) upon the completion of its current share repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion of its ordinary shares which was authorized in 2021 (2021 Authorization). During the year ended December 31, 2022, we repurchased and canceled $1,200.0 million of ordinary shares leaving approximately $200 million remaining under the 2021 Authorization as of December 31, 2022.
We expect to pay a competitive and growing dividend. Since the launch of Trane Technologies in March 2020, we have increased our quarterly share dividend by 26%, from $0.53 to $0.67 per ordinary share, or $2.12 to $2.68 per share annualized. All four 2022 quarterly dividends were paid during the year ended December 31, 2022. In February 2023, our Board of Directors declared an increase in our quarterly share dividend by 12%, from $0.67 to $0.75 per ordinary share, or $2.68 to $3.00 per share annualized starting in the first quarter of 2023.
We continue to actively manage and strengthen our business portfolio to meet the current and future needs of our customers. We achieve this partly through engaging in research and development and sustaining activities and partly through acquisitions. Sustaining activities include costs incurred to reduce production costs, improve existing products, create custom solutions for customers and provide support to our manufacturing facilities. Our research and development and sustaining costs account for approximately two percent of annual Net revenues. Each year, we make investments in new product development and new technology innovation as they are key factors in achieving our strategic objectives as a leader in the climate sector. In addition, we make investments in technology and business for our operational sustainability programs. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we invested in onsite solar energy generation systems at our Pueblo, Colorado and Monterrey, Mexico facilities to generate electricity to offset fossil based electricity purchased from the grid. We ramped up operations of the onsite solar system at our Zhongshan, China facility. Two key factories in China (Taicang and Zhongshan) recently entered into supply agreements to receive a significant quantity of electricity generated from 100 percent renewable sources. We also transitioned to a next generation refrigerant with low global warming potential (GWP) for transport equipment manufactured at our Arecibo, Puerto Rico facility and are actively working to transition to low GWP refrigerant on our first commercial product at our Pueblo, Colorado factory. We also completed a major step to decarbonize our Charmes, France facility by shifting from a natural gas fueled hot water heating system to Trane Technologies’ latest heat pump system. This project is a dual benefit of

33

Table of Contents
reducing Scope 1 carbon and serving as a heat pump system showcase for our customer engagement. These actions represent important steps to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions and improve our customer’s carbon performance over the operating life of Trane Technologies’ cooling equipment. Furthermore, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we also completed implementation of processing equipment for our Tyler, Texas facility to fully achieve zero waste to landfill. These Leading by Example successes did not result in material expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2022.
In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and equity investments. Since 2020, we acquired several businesses, entered into joint ventures and invested in companies that complement existing products and services further enhancing our product portfolio. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we deployed capital of approximately $256 million and $340 million, respectively attributable to acquisitions and equity investments.
We incur costs associated with restructuring initiatives intended to result in improved operating performance, profitability and working capital levels. Actions associated with these initiatives may include workforce reductions, improving manufacturing productivity, realignment of management structures and rationalizing certain assets. Post separation, we have reduced costs by approximately $240 million through December 31, 2022 and expect to reduce costs by an additional $60 million by 2023 for a total of $300 million in total annual savings under our transformation initiatives. In order to achieve these cost savings, we anticipate to incur costs up to $150 million through 2023. We have incurred approximately $130 million of costs cumulatively through December 31, 2022. We believe that our existing cash flow, committed credit lines and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to fund share repurchases, dividends, research and development, sustaining activities, business portfolio changes and ongoing restructuring actions.
Certain of our subsidiaries entered into Funding Agreements with Aldrich and Murray pursuant to which those subsidiaries are obligated, among other things, to pay the costs and expenses of Aldrich and Murray during the pendency of the Chapter 11 cases to the extent distributions from their respective subsidiaries are insufficient to do so and to provide an amount for the funding for a trust established pursuant to section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code, to the extent that the other assets of Aldrich and Murray are insufficient to provide the requisite trust funding. During the third quarter of 2021, Aldrich and Murray filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court to create a $270.0 million QSF. The funds held in the QSF would be available to provide funding for the Section 524(g) Trust upon effectiveness of the Plan. On January 27, 2022, the Bankruptcy Court granted the request to fund the QSF, which was funded on March 2, 2022.
As the COVID-19 global pandemic impacts both the broader economy and our operations, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs and our ability to access capital markets. A continued worldwide disruption could materially affect economies and financial markets worldwide, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our products, our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms and otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A, "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" for more information.
Liquidity
The following table contains several key measures of our financial condition and liquidity at the periods ended December 31:

-------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
In millions 2022 2021
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,220.5 $ 2,159.2
Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt 1,048.0 350.4
Long-term debt 3,788.3 4,491.7
Total debt 4,836.3 4,842.1
Total Trane Technologies plc shareholders’ equity 6,088.6 6,255.9
Total equity 6,105.2 6,273.1
Debt-to-total capital ratio 44.2 % 43.6 %

Debt and Credit Facilities
As of December 31, 2022, our short-term obligations primarily consist of current maturities of $699.7 million of long-term debt that matures in June 2023 and $340.8 million of fixed rate debentures that contain a put feature that the holders may exercise on each anniversary of the issuance date. If exercised, we are obligated to repay in whole or in part, at the holder’s option, the outstanding principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of the debentures held by the holder. We also maintain a commercial paper program which is used for general corporate purposes. Under the program, the maximum aggregate amount of unsecured commercial paper notes available to be issued, on a private placement basis, is $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2022. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. See Note 7, "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s funded status improves. We monitor plan funded status and asset allocation regularly in addition to investment manager performance. In addition, we monitor the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans on a regular basis. None of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to market volatility. See Note 11, "]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding pensions.

Capital Resources
Based on historical performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, the cash generated from our operations, our committed credit lines and our expected our operations for the foreseeable future.
Capital expenditures were $291.8 million, $223.0 million and $146.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our investments continue to improve manufacturing productivity, reduce costs, provide environmental enhancements, upgrade information technology infrastructure and security and advanced technologies for existing facilities. at our option without incurring substantial charges.
For financial market risk impacting the Company, see Part II, Item 7A, "]:
ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42

[", Note 16 "]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[" and Note 20 "]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[", respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations.
Debt
At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding aggregate long-term debt principal payments of $4,863.0 million, with $1,048.3 million payable within 12 months. The amount payable within 12 months includes $340.8 million of debt redeemable at the option of the holder. The scheduled maturities of these bonds range between 2027 and 2028. Future interest payments on long-term debt total $2,186.5 million, with $199.7 million payable within 12 months. See Note 7, "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.
Purchase Obligations
Purchase obligations include commitments under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders. At December 31, 2022, we had purchase obligations of $1,239.2 million, which are primarily payable within 12 months.
Pensions
It is our objective to contribute to the pension plans to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. We currently expect that we will contribute approximately $69 million to our enterprise plans worldwide in 2023. The timing and amounts of future contributions are dependent upon the funding status of the plan, which is expected to vary as a result of changes in interest rates, returns on underlying assets, and other factors. See Note 11, "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase plan or arrangement

[") after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances based on the Company’s legal entity ownerships and guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2022. Our obligor groups as of December 31, 2022 were as follows: Obligor group 1 consists of Plc, TT Holdings, TT International, TT Global, TTFL, TTC HoldCo and TTC; Obligor group 2 consists of Plc, TTFL and TTC.
Summarized Statements of Earnings

----------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------- --------------- ------ - ------
 Year ended December 31, 2022
In millions Obligor group 1 Obligor group 2
Net revenues $ — $ —
Gross profit (loss) — —
Intercompany interest and fees (44.2) 224.5
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations (644.3) (28.9)
Discontinued operations, net of tax (14.4) (19.5)
Net earnings (loss) (658.7) (48.4)
Less: Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests — —
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Trane Technologies plc $ (658.7) $ (48.4)

38

Table of Contents
Summarized Balance Sheet

----------------------------- ----------------- ----- --------------- ------- - -------
 December 31, 2022
In millions Obligor group 1 Obligor group 2
ASSETS
Intercompany receivables $ 860.0 $ 1,092.1
Current assets 1,011.6 1,231.7
Intercompany notes receivable 1,831.9 4,781.6
Noncurrent assets 2,582.3 5,383.1
LIABILITIES
Intercompany payables 3,303.5 1,792.1
Current liabilities 4,851.8 2,611.9
Intercompany notes payable 2,400.0 2,400.0
Noncurrent liabilities 6,789.8 5,433.4

Critical Accounting Estimates
Management’s Discussion If updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known.
The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical.
•Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets – We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets indicate that the fair value of an asset is more likely than not less than the carrying amount of the asset. In addition, an interim impairment test is completed upon a triggering event or when there is a reorganization of reporting structure or disposal of all or a portion of a reporting unit.
The determination of estimated fair value requires us to make assumptions about estimated cash flows, including profit margins, long-term forecasts, discount rates and terminal growth rates. We developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. The estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows.
Annual Goodwill Impairment Test
Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level. The test compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement