================================================================================
CIK: 0001306830
Company Name: Celanese Corp
Filing Date: 2023-02-24
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 12:37:38
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.
Risks Related to Business and Industry Conditions
We are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the countries in which we have operations and customers.
We operate globally and have customers in many countries. Our major facilities are primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia, and we hold interests in affiliates that operate in the United States ("U.S."), Germany, China, Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia. Our principal customers are similarly global in scope and the prices of our most significant products are typically regional or world market prices. Consequently, our business and financial results are affected, directly and indirectly, by world economic conditions, including instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates, cost inflation, volatile exchange rates and other challenges such as the changing regulatory environment.
Our operations are also subject to global political conditions. For example, any future withdrawal or renegotiation of trade agreements, or the failure to reach agreement over trade agreements, or the imposition of new or increased tariffs on our products or raw materials, or the more aggressive prosecution of trade disputes with countries like China, may increase costs or reduce profitability, or adversely affect our ability to operate our business and execute our growth strategy. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to enforce agreements, collect receivables, receive dividends and repatriate earnings through foreign legal systems. In certain foreign jurisdictions our operations are subject to nationalization and expropriation risk and some of our contractual relationships within these jurisdictions are subject to cancellation without full compensation for loss.

16

Table of Contents
Furthermore, in certain cases where we benefit from local government subsidies or other undertakings, such benefits are subject to the solvency of local government entities and are subject to termination without meaningful recourse or remedies.
We have invested significant resources in China and other Asian countries. This region's growth may slow, or trade flows could be negatively impacted, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits associated with our investment there and, consequently, our financial results may be adversely impacted.
In addition, we have significant operations and financial relationships based in Europe. Historically, sales originating in Europe have accounted for over one-third of our net sales annually, and accounted for approximately 35% of our Net sales in 2022. Adverse conditions in the European economy may negatively impact our overall financial results due to reduced economic growth, trade disruptions, decreased end-use customer demand or other factors.
We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the prices and availability of key raw materials and energy, which could have a significant adverse effect on the margins of our products and our financial results.
We purchase significant amounts of ethylene, methanol, carbon monoxide and natural gas from third parties primarily for use in our production of basic chemicals in our intermediate chemistry business, principally acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of downstream products in all of our business segments. We also purchase some of these raw materials for use in our emulsion polymers and EVA polymer businesses, primarily for vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions and ethylene vinyl acetate production, as well as significant amounts of wood pulp for use in our production of acetate tow. We also procure polymers, rubber and polypropylene for use in production of engineered materials, and other raw materials as additives to our products including fiberglass, flame retardant materials and other compounding components.
The prices and availability of many of these items is dependent on supply and logistics considerations. Prices can increase significantly as a result of uncertainties associated with inflationary pressures, transportation or logistics disruptions, weather, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, the effects of climate change or political instability, plant or production disruptions, war or conflicts, strikes or other labor unrest, breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used in the delivery of raw materials and energy commodities, terrorist activities, civil unrest, or changes in laws or regulations in any of the countries in which we have significant suppliers. In particular, to the extent of our vertical integration in the production of chemicals, shortages in the availability of raw material chemicals, such as natural gas, ethylene and methanol, or the loss of our dedicated supplies of carbon monoxide, may have an increased adverse impact on us as it can cause a shortage in intermediate and finished products. Such shortages would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products and increase our costs resulting in reduced margins and adverse impacts to our financial results.
Like many companies, we experienced supply disruptions and increased costs of inputs in 2021 and continuing into 2022. These trends have impacted our operating costs and we have undertaken efforts to offset these costs through pricing actions, alternative supply arrangements, and hedging strategies, however, these do not eliminate all exposure to inflationary pressure. We are not always successful passing costs to customers, competitive market conditions may prevent us from doing so, and even where we are successful increased prices could lead to reduced demand for our products or could result in competitive disadvantages. We currently expect these issues to continue into 2023.
We are exposed to volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have long-term supply agreements, multi-year purchasing and sales agreements and forward purchase contracts providing for the supply of ethylene, methanol, carbon monoxide, wood pulp, natural gas and electricity, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy can vary with economic conditions and may be highly volatile. In addition to the factors noted above that may impact supply or price, factors that have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include:
•Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses;
•Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, labor disruption, government-imposed work or travel restrictions, involuntary shutdowns or turnarounds;
•A supplier's inability to meet our delivery orders, a supplier's decision not to fulfill orders or to terminate a supply contract or our inability to obtain or renew supply contracts on favorable terms;
•The general level of business, economic and industry activity; and
•The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation (including the impact of government regulation relating to power usage, climate change or regulation of production and transport of certain chemicals).

17

Table of Contents
If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs, or if such commodities become unavailable, it could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to timely and profitably manufacture and deliver our products resulting in reduced margins, lost sales and adverse impacts to our financial results.
We have a practice of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials and services. However, some of our individual plants may have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials, such as carbon monoxide, steam and ethylene, or site services. Although we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials and services, there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments will not affect our ability to source raw materials or services in the future. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for a raw material or a service, there can be no assurance that these sources can make up for the loss of a major supplier. Furthermore, if any sole source or major supplier were unable or unwilling to deliver a raw material or a service for an extended period of time, we may not be able to find an acceptable alternative or any such alternative could result in increased costs. It is also possible that profitability would be adversely affected if we were required to qualify additional sources of supply for a raw material or a service to our specifications in the event of the loss of a sole source or major supplier.
Almost all of our supply of methanol in North America is currently obtained from our Fairway joint venture with Mitsui, in which we own a 50% interest, for the production of methanol at our integrated chemical plant in Clear Lake, Texas.
Risks Related to Our Global Operations and Our Strategy
Production at our manufacturing facilities, or at our suppliers', could be disrupted for a variety of reasons, which could prevent us from producing enough of our products to maintain our sales and satisfy our customers' demands.
A disruption in production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities, or our suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, severe weather, unplanned maintenance or other manufacturing problems, public health crises (including, but not limited to, the COVID-19 pandemic), disease, geopolitical events, strikes or other labor unrest, transportation interruption, government regulation, political unrest or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If one of our key manufacturing facilities is unable to produce our products for an extended period of time, our sales may be reduced by the shortfall caused by the disruption and we may not be able to meet our customers' needs, which could cause them to seek other suppliers. In particular, production disruptions at our manufacturing facilities that produce chemicals used as inputs in the production of chemicals in other business segments, such as acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde, could have a more significant adverse effect on our business and financial performance and results of operations to the extent of such vertical integration. Furthermore, to the extent a production disruption occurs at a manufacturing facility that has been operating at or near full capacity, the resulting shortage of our product could be particularly harmful because production at such manufacturing facility may not be able to reach levels achieved prior to the disruption.
We have experienced disruptions of the type described above in recent years. In February 2021, Winter Storm Uri led to worldwide supply disruptions, loss of energy and critical raw materials at our Texas sites and impacted nearly all of our employees in Texas, where we are headquartered and where several of our manufacturing sites are located. This storm led us to proactively and temporarily shut down our Texas production facilities in a controlled manner to protect our employees, communities, and assets, and the necessity of this decision led to lost production and negatively impacted our financial results for that quarter. In August 2020, to protect our employees and safeguard the assets at our Clear Lake facility, we temporarily, voluntarily ceased production at our Clear Lake, Texas facility during the landfall of Hurricane Laura.
Disruptions or interruptions of production or operations could also occur due to accidents, interruptions in sources of raw materials, cybersecurity incidents, terrorism or political unrest, or other unforeseen events or delays in construction or operation of facilities, including as a result of geopolitical conditions, the occurrence of acts of war or terrorist incidents or as a result of weather, natural disasters, or other crises including public health crises.
Failure to develop new products and production technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives successfully, may harm our competitive position.
Our operating results depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, as well as improving process technologies. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and improved production processes in the future, including failing to leverage our opportunity pipeline in our Engineered Materials segment, our competitive position and operating results may be negatively affected. However, as we invest in new technology,

18

Table of Contents
we face the risk of unanticipated operational or commercialization difficulties, including an inability to obtain necessary permits or governmental approvals, the development of competing technologies, failure of facilities or processes to operate in accordance with specifications or expectations, construction delays, cost over-runs, the unavailability of financing, required materials or equipment and various other factors. Likewise, we have undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all of our business segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized.
We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications.
Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers' products. If one of our products fails to perform in a manner consistent with applicable quality specifications, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform as guaranteed. A successful claim or series of claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more key customers.
Our production facilities, including facilities we own and/or operate and operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties, handle the processing of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating and other risks that could have a negative effect on our operating results.
Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of, and minimize the disruption to, our operations and operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties, we are subject to operating and other risks associated with chemical manufacturing, including the storage and transportation of raw materials, finished products and waste. These risks include, among other things, pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions and fires and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. In addition, we may have limited control over operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties or such operations may not be fully integrated into our safety programs.
These operating and other risks can cause personal injury, property damage, third-party damages and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, our operating results and cash flows.
Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and our rights to use our intellectual property. Our inability to protect and enforce these rights could reduce our ability to maintain our industry position and our profit margins.
We rely on our patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how and trade secrets, and patents and other technology licensed from third parties, to protect our investment in research and development and our competitive commercial positions in manufacturing and marketing our products. We have adopted internal policies for protecting our know-how and trade secrets. In addition, our practice is to seek patent or trade secret protection for significant developments that provide us competitive advantages and freedom to practice for our businesses. Patents may cover catalysts, processes, products, intermediate products and product uses. These patents are usually filed in strategic countries throughout the world and provide varying periods and scopes of protection based on the filing date and the type of patent application. The legal life and scope of protection provided by a patent may vary among those countries in which we seek protection. As patents expire, the catalysts, processes, products, intermediate products and product uses described and claimed in those patents generally may become available for use by the public subject to our continued protection for associated know-how and trade secrets. We also monitor intellectual property of others, especially patents that could impact our rights to commercially implement research and development, our rights to manufacture and market our products, and our rights to use know-how and trade secrets. We will not intentionally infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of others, and we will continue to assess and take actions as necessary to protect our positions. We also seek to register trademarks as a means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding product or process patents have expired. We operate in regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce and our continued growth strategy may result in us seeking intellectual property protection in additional regions with similar challenges. We also monitor the trademarks of others and take action when our trademark rights are being infringed upon. If we are not successful in protecting or maintaining our patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property rights, or protecting our rights to commercially make, market and sell our products, our net sales, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.

19

Table of Contents
Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners and the industries in which our suppliers, customers and business partners participate are cyclical in nature, both of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners and reductions in demand for our customers' products. These risks include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, delays in or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Furthermore, some of the industries in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use applications, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and the pricing of our products. In addition, many of these industries are highly cyclical in nature, thus posing risks to us that vary throughout the year and vary according to macroeconomic factors. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.
We may incur significant charges in the event we close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility.
We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing certain products or close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. We also have shared services agreements at several of our plants and if such agreements are terminated or revised, we would assess and potentially adjust our manufacturing operations. The closure or divestiture of all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility could result in future charges that could be significant. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
The insurance coverage that we maintain may not fully cover all operational risks.
We maintain property, business interruption, casualty and cyber/information security insurance but such insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In the future, the types of insurance we obtain and the level of coverage we maintain may be inadequate or we may be unable to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost.
Risks associated with our joint ventures, including differences in views with our joint venture partners may cause them not to operate according to their business plans, which may adversely affect our results of operations.
We currently participate in a number of joint ventures, acquired interests in several additional joint ventures through the M&M Acquisition and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint ventures require us to work cooperatively with unaffiliated third parties. Differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failure to agree on major decisions. Additionally, our partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations to the joint ventures, which could negatively impact them. If these risks cause the joint ventures to fail to achieve their desired operating performance, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact our profitability.
We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S. Consequently, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the euro, may materially affect our operating results. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the cost of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rates can also impact the competitiveness of products produced in certain jurisdictions and exported for sale into other jurisdictions. These changes may impact the value received for the sale of our goods versus those of our competitors.
In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the

20

Table of Contents
volatility of exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and translation risks effectively.
We use financial instruments to hedge certain exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, but those hedges in most cases cover existing balance sheet exposures and not future transactional exposures. We cannot guarantee that our hedging strategies will be effective. In addition, the use of financial instruments creates counterparty settlement risk. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
We are subject to information or operational technology cybersecurity threats that could materially affect our business.
We have been and will continue to be subject to advanced and persistent threats in the areas of information and operational technology security and fraud. We seek to prevent unauthorized access to our information and operational technology systems and to detect and investigate any cybersecurity incidents that may occur, however in some cases we might be unaware of a particular incident or its magnitude and effects. We may face increased information technology security and fraud risks due to our increased reliance on working remotely during and following the COVID-19 pandemic, which may create additional information security vulnerabilities and/or magnify the impact of any disruption in information technology systems. Additionally, we may be exposed to unauthorized access to our information or operational technology systems through undetected vulnerabilities in our service providers' information systems or software. These risks may be heightened as a result of our efforts to integrate the M&M Business's technology environment with our own.
The theft, misuse or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information or the compromising of our systems or networks (including through ransomware or denial-of-service attacks) could harm our competitive position, cause operational disruption (including the potential to disrupt or compromise our control of physical plant operations at our manufacturing sites), reduce the value of our investment in research and development of new products and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business or results of operations. To the extent that any security breach impacts operations at our manufacturing sites, we may experience production or shipping disruptions. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our employees', customers' or vendors' confidential or personally identifiable information, we may incur liability or suffer reputational damage in the marketplace as a result. We maintain cyber/information security insurance, but any losses may be beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our policy.
Information and operational security threats and methods of perpetrating fraud or misappropriating information are constantly evolving and becoming more complex, which increases the difficulty and expense of defending against these threats. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including insurance, monitoring of our systems and networks, employee training, crisis simulations and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated advanced persistent threats that may have a material effect on our business. In addition, the devotion of additional resources to the security of our information or operational technology systems in the future could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact our financial results.
Risks Relating to the acquisition of the majority of the Mobility & Materials business (the "M&M Acquisition" and such business being acquired, the "M&M Business") of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ("DuPont")
We made certain assumptions relating to the M&M Acquisition which may prove to be materially inaccurate and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.
We made certain assumptions relating to the M&M Acquisition, which may prove to be inaccurate. Expectations of future results may not materialize and we face risk of unanticipated or unknown issues or liabilities. Our mitigation strategies for such risks that are identified may be ineffective. We face risks and uncertainties regarding:
•performance of the M&M Business in future economic and business conditions;
•the process of integrating the M&M Business with ours, which may encounter unanticipated delays, costs or inefficiencies;
•the amount and timing of potential benefits and synergies;
•the amount of attention and resources needed to successfully align our and the M&M Business's practices and operations including integrating commercial activities and technologies, retaining key personnel and aligning business cultures;

21

Table of Contents
•potential commercial, macroeconomic and financial risks associated with our broader international business footprint; and
•other financial and strategic risks of the M&M Acquisition.
We cannot guarantee that we will achieve our goals or meet our expectations with respect to the M&M Acquisition. Through 2022, the M&M Business underperformed prior expectations, in particular its financial performance from signing through the closing was lower than anticipated. We cannot be certain when we will be able to realize improvements in the underlying M&M Business performance and as we proceed with integration, we may identify additional risks and challenges. The benefits of the M&M Acquisition, including the anticipated financial benefits and the synergies and growth opportunities, may not be realized as expected or may not be achieved within the anticipated timeframe, or at all. If our assumptions are inaccurate or we are unable to meet our expectations (including our expectations regarding financial targets), our business, financial performance and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
We will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the M&M Acquisition.
We have incurred and expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with completing the M&M Acquisition, combining the operations of our business and the M&M Business and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs have been, and will continue to be, substantial. Non-recurring expenses include, among others, employee retention costs, fees paid to financial, legal, integration and accounting advisors, severance and benefit costs. We will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. We will continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the M&M Acquisition and the integration of the M&M Business into our business. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the M&M Business, should allow us to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or timing of these expenses, many of which, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.
The risk of non-compliance with non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives.
The M&M Acquisition introduces us into a number of new geographic markets, subjecting us to additional non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies which do not currently apply to us, and will increase our exposure to certain other geographic markets as well as their laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have become more stringent over time, could increase our cost of doing business, and could result in conflicting legal requirements. Therefore, the M&M Acquisition may increase our exposure to the risks described below under "Regulatory, Legal, Environmental and Tax Risks."
Regulatory, Legal, Environmental and Tax Risks
Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations and/or changes in applicable laws or regulations may adversely affect our business and financial results as a whole.
We are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws, including antitrust, anticorruption and sanctions laws, rules, regulations or court decisions, could expose us to fines, penalties and other costs. For example, in December 2019 we announced the recording of a reserve in connection with a competition law investigation by the European Commission based on certain past ethylene purchases by certain subsidiaries of the Company, and in July 2020, we announced that we had reached a final settlement of $92 million with respect to this investigation. The Company paid this settlement in full on January 12, 2021. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and employee training designed to ensure compliance with these laws, rules, regulations and court decisions, there can be no assurance that our employees and business partners and other third parties acting on our behalf will comply with these laws, rules, regulations and court decisions, which could result in fines, penalties and costs and damage to our business reputation.
Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, including the more aggressive enforcement of such laws and regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including trade compliance requirements), or changes in reporting requirements of the U.S., Canadian, Mexican, German, EU or Asian governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. In addition, enforcement of environmental or other governmental policy may result in plant shut downs or significantly decreased production, such as in China on high pollution days. For example, in 2021 we experienced energy curtailment mandates from the government in the Chinese province where our Nanjing production facility is located,

22

Table of Contents
which forced us to reduce and curtail production at that site. Any of these types of conditions, including the failure to obtain or maintain operating permits for our business, may have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for our products and raw materials. See Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Our business exposes us to potential product liability, warranty, and tort claims, and recalls, which could adversely affect our financial condition and performance.
The development, manufacture and sale of specialty chemical products by us, including products produced for the food and beverage, medical device, pharmaceutical, automobile, construction, appliance, cigarette and aerospace end markets, involves a risk of exposure to product liability, warranty, and tort claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. A product liability, warranty, or tort claim or judgment against us that is larger than those typically experienced in the regular course of business could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in our products, and divert management's attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that this type or the level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a significant partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Although we have standard contracting policies and controls, we may not always be able to contractually limit our exposure to third party claims should our failure to perform result in downstream supply disruptions or product recalls.
Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs.
Costs related to our compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and potential obligations with respect to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, may have a negative impact on our operating results. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between Celanese GmbH and Hoechst AG for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. See Note 13 - Environmental in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other laws and regulations that govern environmental, health and safety matters and that regulate the handling, manufacture, use, emission and disposal of products, materials and hazardous and non-hazardous waste. If we violate any one of those laws or regulations, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. We could also face claims for damages from individuals or groups for alleged violations of these laws or regulations.
We also incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with environmental, health and safety requirements. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could result in substantial additional costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations. Consequently, compliance with these laws and regulations may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.
For more information on risks we face specifically related to climate change and related potential regulation, see the risk factor titled "We are subject to financial, regulatory, physical and transition risks associated with climate change or other sustainability matters as well as potential legislation, regulation and international accords to address climate change and other sustainability matters" below.
Changes in environmental, health and safety regulations in the jurisdictions where we manufacture or sell our products could lead to a decrease in demand for our products.
New or revised governmental regulations, independent studies or consumer or societal perceptions relating to the effect of our products on health, safety or the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. In addition, products we produce, including VAM, formaldehyde and polymers derived from formaldehyde, may be classified and labeled in a manner that would adversely affect demand for such products. For example, in 2019 the EPA designated formaldehyde as a high-priority substance under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the substance is currently undergoing risk evaluation. In addition, in 2012 the International Agency for Research on Cancer ("IARC"), a research agency within the World Health Organization, classified formaldehyde as carcinogenic to humans (Group 1) based on epidemiological studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans, and leukemia. In 2011, a similar conclusion

23

Table of Contents
was reached by the National Toxicology Program ("NTP"), a U.S. inter-agency research program. We anticipate that the results of the IARC's and the NTP's reviews will continue to be examined and considered by government regulatory agencies with responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements.
Other initiatives, including the Chemical Strategy for Sustainability initiative currently to be undertaken by the EU as part of the Green Deal will potentially require, or increase existing requirements for, toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These assessments may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional regulatory requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling and/or use of the subject chemicals. The new requirements may necessitate reformulation of products in order to meet customers' demands, which would be a financially burdensome process.
Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
We are subject to financial, regulatory, physical and transition risks associated with climate change or other sustainability matters as well as potential legislation, regulation and international accords to address climate change and other sustainability matters.
Greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions have become the subject of significant international, national, regional, state and local attention. For example, the EPA and SEC have promulgated or proposed extensive rules concerning reporting of GHG emissions. The European Commission has also embarked on the European Green Deal initiative with the goal of making the EU carbon neutral by 2050, which is leading to additional statutory and regulatory requirements. In addition, regulation of greenhouse gas also could occur pursuant to future treaty obligations, statutory or regulatory changes or new climate change legislation intended to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHG emissions. Compliance with such legislation, regulation and accords and the associated potential cost is complicated by the fact that various countries and regions are following different approaches and standards to the regulation of climate change.
A number of our operations are within jurisdictions that have or are developing regulatory regimes governing GHG emissions, which may lead to direct and indirect costs on our operations. Some jurisdictions have emissions reduction measures directed at the power or oil and gas sectors, which could result in higher power input costs or reduced energy availability for us. Other regulations that are being implemented or contemplated include the potential for restrictions on GHG emissions, cap and trade emissions trading systems, taxes on GHG emissions, fuel, and energy, or carbon import charges on certain products among other provisions. These may exist in addition to country and corporate-level net-zero GHG emissions pledges. These measures, if and where enacted, may significantly increase our costs of operations or require us to incur significant additional capital costs for the installation of equipment to mitigate GHG emissions for our sites' manufacturing operations.
Physical impacts of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of hurricanes and floods and impact on sea levels, may also impact our facilities and operations and those of our key suppliers. A number of our sites are located in areas that are exposed to weather events and changing sea levels (such as the Texas Gulf Coast) and that have been impacted by hurricanes and other weather events in the past as described elsewhere in these risk factors. To the extent climate change exacerbates these threats, our operations and supply chains could experience increased levels of disruptions and added costs.
Additionally, increased social, legislative and regulatory focus on climate change and other sustainability matters as well as customer demand for responsibly manufactured products could lead to changes in the behavior of our customers or their end-customers, and could result in reduced customer demand for products made from materials that are perceived to be significant contributors to greenhouse gas emissions and global climate change. We may fail to accurately react to these trends and refine our product offerings through innovation, or we may not be able to fully address these concerns through changes in manufacturing methods or use of more sustainable materials and processes, which could result in reduced demand for our products.
We closely monitor developments in this area, but there is significant uncertainty regarding what legislative or regulatory requirements may be put in place, which makes it impossible for us to predict the longer-term impact these measures have on our operations. However, we believe that future legislative and regulatory developments related to climate change are likely, which could materially increase operating costs in the chemical industry and thereby increase our manufacturing and delivery costs.

24

Table of Contents
Our aspirations, goals, and initiatives related to sustainability, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, expose us to risks.
We have developed and publicized, and expect to continue to establish, goals, targets, and other objectives related to sustainability matters. These include a GHG intensity reduction target and other environmental targets. Such statements reflect our current plans at the time they are made, and do not constitute a guarantee that they will be achieved. Our ability to track and meet these goals depends on future innovations and technology and the availability of accurate reporting methods. Our efforts to research, establish, accomplish, and accurately report on these goals, targets, and objectives could expose us to operational, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks. Our ability to achieve any stated goal, target, or objective is and will be subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control, such as evolving regulatory or quasi-regulatory sustainability standards, the ability of suppliers to meet our sustainability and other standards, differing requirements and the pace of changes in technology.
We may face increased scrutiny from the investment community, other stakeholders, regulators, and the media related to our sustainability activities, including the goals, targets, and objectives that we announce, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them. If our sustainability practices do not meet investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, which continue to evolve, our reputation, ability to attract or retain employees, and attractiveness as an investment, business partner, or as an acquirer could be negatively impacted, which could in turn adversely impact our business and results of operations. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our goals, targets, and objectives, to comply with ethical, environmental, or other standards, regulations, or expectations, or to satisfy various reporting standards with respect to these matters, within the timelines that we announce, or at all, could have the same negative impacts, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. Even if we achieve the goals, targets, and objectives we set, we may not realize all of the benefits that it expected at the time they were established.
Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings.
We are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of such proceedings, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any particular period. See Note 13 - Environmental and Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Changes in, or the interpretation of, tax legislation or rates throughout the world, or the resolution of tax examinations or audits, could materially impact our results.
Our future effective tax rate and related tax balance sheet attributes could be impacted by changes in tax legislation throughout the world. The overall tax environment has made it increasingly challenging for multinational corporations to operate with certainty about taxation in many jurisdictions. For example, the European Commission has been conducting investigations focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provide preferential tax treatment that violates EU state aid rules.
Furthermore, a number of countries where we do business, including the U.S. and many countries in the EU, have changed or are considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, expirations of tax holidays or rulings, changes in the assessment regarding the realization of deferred tax assets, or changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation. The increasingly complex global tax environment and related legislative developments could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

25

Table of Contents
For example, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD"), which represents a coalition of member countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting initiatives, which focus on a number of issues, including (i) the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions and (ii) a global minimum tax of at least 15% of adjusted financial statement income, applied on a country by country basis, applicable to multinational groups with annual adjusted financial statement income in excess of $1.0 billion. The adoption of such changes is contingent upon the independent actions of participating countries to enact implementing domestic legislation.
Furthermore, in August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ("IRA") was enacted in the U.S. The IRA created a new book minimum tax of at least 15% of consolidated GAAP pre-tax income for corporations with three-year average annual book income in excess of $1.0 billion. The IRA also created an excise tax of 1% of the value of any stock repurchased by us after December 31, 2022.
We are subject to the regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. Examinations in material jurisdictions or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations by local taxing authorities could result in impacts to tax years open under statute or to foreign operating structures currently in place.
Our tax returns are under audit for the years 2013 through 2015 by the United States, the Netherlands and Germany. These authorities have proposed adjustments to transfer pricing and the reallocation of income between the related jurisdictions to open tax years through 2019. While we have reached resolution with the Netherlands, we are currently continuing with the other taxing authorities and are evaluating all potential remedies. We are currently evaluating these proposals and all potential remedies. If this matter is resolved in a manner inconsistent with our expectations or we are unsuccessful in defending our position, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.
We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of tax examinations or audits. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. It is possible the outcomes from these examinations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in future periods.
Risks Related to Our Human Capital
Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel including our management team. The inability to recruit and retain talented employees or the unexpected loss of such talented employees or key personnel may adversely affect our operations. Like many companies, we have experienced in the last couple of years and continue to experience an increasingly competitive hiring environment for skilled employees at our manufacturing and other sites, which in some cases has increased, or may in the future increase, the cost of retaining or hiring talented employees, particularly in technical manufacturing roles critical to our success.
In addition, we rely on our senior management team specifically, therefore our future success depends in part on our ability to retain those members of senior management and to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The hiring and retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategies.
Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.
The cost of our pension plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves many uncertainties during those periods of time. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level and value of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets will likely result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets and a change in the discount rate or mortality assumptions, which will likely result in an increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations. The combined impact of these changes will affect the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. In recent years, an extended duration strategy in the asset portfolio has been implemented in some plans to reduce the influence of liability volatility due to changes in interest rates. If the funded status of a

26

Table of Contents
pension plan declines, we may be required to make unscheduled contributions in addition to those contributions for which we have already planned. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers councils or are subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2022, we had 13,263 employees globally. Approximately 11% of our 4,722 U.S.-based employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other employment rights than the laws of the U.S. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor agreements. Most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers councils and/or unions that must approve any changes in terms and conditions of employment, including potentially salaries and benefits. They may also impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Although we believe we have a good working relationship with our employees and their legal representatives, a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown by our employees could occur, resulting in a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.
Risks Related to Our Indebtedness
Financing the M&M Acquisition significantly increased our indebtedness and interest expense, which could adversely affect us, decrease our business flexibility, diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry.
See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our indebtedness. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations, Note 13 - Environmental and Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our other obligations.
We incurred approximately $11.0 billion of indebtedness to finance the M&M Acquisition, bringing our total outstanding indebtedness to $14.7 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $4.0 billion at December 31, 2021. Also, the amount of cash required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness, and thus the demands on our cash resources, has significantly increased as a result of the indebtedness to finance the M&M Acquisition.
We intend to allocate capital to repay and reduce our outstanding debt using cash from operations and potentially proceeds from asset sales or dispositions if we are able to do so on favorable terms. Our ability to reduce our level of indebtedness over time in line with our strategic goals depends on a number of factors including our business performance, macroeconomic and industry conditions, commercial and financing market conditions, and other factors described in these risk factors, and our inability to achieve these objectives could delay or alter our deleveraging plan, or could negatively impact the trading prices of our securities or our credit ratings.
Our higher level of indebtedness and other liabilities could have other important consequences, including:
•Increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including exacerbating the impact of any adverse business effects that could impact our ability to repay amounts due under existing senior credit agreements (the "Credit Agreements") or our indentures (the "Indentures") governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes (collectively, the "Senior Notes");
•Requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness and amounts payable in connection with the satisfaction of our other liabilities, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or pay dividends on our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share ("Common Stock");
•Reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions;
•Exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;
•Exposing us to the risk of changes in currency exchange rates as certain of our borrowings are denominated in foreign currencies; and
•Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes.

27

Table of Contents
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets on unfavorable terms, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to complete those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.
Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or pay dividends.
The Credit Agreements, the Indentures and the Receivables Purchase Agreement governing our receivables securitization facility each contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. The Credit Agreements and the Indentures contain covenants including, but not limited to, restrictions on our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt; incur liens securing debt; merge or consolidate with any other person; and sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets or the assets of certain subsidiaries. Additionally, the Credit Agreements require the maintenance of certain financial ratios.
Such restrictions in our debt obligations could result in us having to obtain the consent of our lenders and holders of the Senior Notes in order to take certain actions. Disruptions in credit markets may prevent us from obtaining or make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain such consents. Our ability to expand our business or to address declines in our business may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consents.
A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a default under any of the Credit Agreements could permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness under such Credit Agreement and to terminate any commitments to lend. If the lenders under any Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay such amounts or our other indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. In such event, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.
Celanese and Celanese U.S. are holding companies and depend on subsidiaries to satisfy their obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of Celanese U.S.'s obligations under the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreements by Celanese.
As holding companies, Celanese and Celanese U.S. conduct substantially all of their operations through their subsidiaries, which own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, the principal source of cash to pay Celanese and Celanese U.S.'s obligations, including obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of Celanese U.S.'s obligations under the Credit Agreements and the Indentures by Celanese, is the cash that our subsidiaries generate from their operations. We cannot assure that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable Celanese U.S. and/or Celanese to make payments in respect of their obligations. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, applicable country or state laws, regulatory limitations and terms of our debt instruments may limit our subsidiaries' ability to distribute cash to Celanese U.S. and Celanese. In the event Celanese U.S. and/or Celanese do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, Celanese U.S. and/or Celanese may be unable to make required payments on the indebtedness under the Credit Agreements, the Indentures, the guarantee of Celanese U.S.'s obligations under the Credit Agreements and the Indentures by Celanese, or our other indebtedness.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.

28

Table of Contents
Item 2.  Properties
Description of Property
Our corporate headquarters is located in Irving, Texas and we also have administrative offices in Amsterdam, Netherlands; Asturias, Spain; Budapest, Hungary; Hyderabad, India; Kunshan, China; Mexico City, Mexico; Nanjing, China; Shanghai, China; and Sulzbach, Germany. We own or lease numerous production and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. We also own or lease other properties, including office buildings, warehouses, pipelines, research and development facilities and sales offices. We continuously review and evaluate our facilities as a part of our strategy to optimize our business portfolio. The following table sets forth our principal production and other facilities throughout the world as of December 31, 2022. These facilities are well-maintained, in good operating condition, are suitable and adequate for their use and have sufficient capacity for our current needs and expected near-term growth.

----------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------- ------ --------- - ------ -- --
Geographic Region Engineered Materials(1) Acetyl Chain(1) Corporate
 Leased Owned Leased Owned Leased
North America 11 9 1 7 2
Europe and Africa 5 5 1 5 4
Asia-Pacific 5 8 3 — 4
South America 3 1 — — —
Total 24 23 5 12 10

______________________________
(1)Certain geographic locations may contain sites used by multiple segments.
We have also entered into strategic ventures with partners in various locations around the world. See Item 1. Business for a discussion of our investments in affiliates and their respective site locations.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
The Company is involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations incidental to the normal conduct of its business, relating to such matters as product liability, land disputes, insurance coverage disputes, contracts, employment, antitrust and competition, intellectual property, personal injury and other actions in tort, workers' compensation, chemical exposure, asbestos exposure, taxes, trade compliance, acquisitions and divestitures, claims of legacy shareholders, past waste disposal practices and release of chemicals into the environment. The Company is actively defending those matters where it is named as a defendant. Due to the inherent subjectivity of assessments and unpredictability of outcomes of legal proceedings, the Company's litigation accruals and estimates of possible loss or range of possible loss may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from legal proceedings. See Note 13 - Environmental and Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of material environmental matters and material commitments and contingencies related to legal and regulatory proceedings. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for certain risk factors relating to these legal proceedings.

29

Table of Contents
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Information about our Executive Officers
The names, ages and biographies of our executive officers as of February 24, 2023 are as follows:

------------------- --- -------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Name Age Position
Lori J. Ryerkerk 60 Chair of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President
Scott A. Richardson 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thomas F. Kelly 57 Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials
Mark C. Murray 52 Senior Vice President, Acetyls
A. Lynne Puckett 60 Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Lori J. Ryerkerk was named our Chief Executive Officer and President and a member of our board of directors effective May 2019. In April 2020, she was named Chair of the Board. Previously, Ms. Ryerkerk was the Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing, the largest business in Shell Downstream Inc., where she led a team of 30,000 employees and contractors at refineries and chemical sites worldwide. Ms. Ryerkerk joined Shell in May 2010 as the Regional Vice President of Manufacturing in Europe and Africa, and was responsible for the operation of five Shell manufacturing facilities and five joint ventures. In October 2013, she was named Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing, Shell Downstream Inc. Before joining Shell, she was Senior Vice President, Refining, Supply and Terminals at Hess Corporation, where she was responsible for refineries, terminals and a distribution network, and supply and trading. Prior to that, Ms. Ryerkerk spent 24 years with ExxonMobil where she started her career as a process technologist at a refinery in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Throughout her tenure at ExxonMobil, she took on a variety of operational and senior leadership roles in Refining and Chemicals Manufacturing, Power Generation, and various other groups including Supply, Economics and Planning, HSSE and Public Affairs/Government Relations. Ms. Ryerkerk received a Chemical Engineering degree from Iowa State University. She serves on the board of Eaton Corporation plc, a diversified power management company, and previously served on the board of directors of Axalta Coating Systems, a leading provider of liquid and powder coatings.
Scott A. Richardson was named Chief Financial Officer for Celanese Corporation in February 2018 after serving as Senior Vice President of the Engineered Materials business since December 2015, where he had global responsibility for strategy, product and business management, planning and portfolio development, and pipeline management. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2020. Previously, Mr. Richardson served as Vice President and General Manager of the Acetyl Chain since 2011. Mr. Richardson has progressed through several Celanese roles including global commercial director, Acetyls; manager of Investor Relations; business analysis manager, Acetyls; and business line controller, Polyols and Solvents. He joined Celanese in 2005. Prior to joining Celanese, Mr. Richardson held various finance, operational and leadership roles at American Airlines. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in Accounting from Westminster College and a Master of Business Administration from Texas Christian University.
Thomas F. Kelly was named Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials in April 2020, leading the Engineered Materials business with global responsibility for product and business management, planning and portfolio development, and pipeline management. He had previously served as Vice President of Engineered Materials with Celanese since January 2019. He re-joined Celanese in January 2019 after serving with Cabot Microelectronics (now CMC Materials), a global supplier of consumable materials to semiconductor manufacturers and pipeline companies, from September 2016 to January 2019. At Cabot Microelectronics he held the roles of Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and Vice President of Corporate Development. He was previously with Celanese from August 2012 to September 2016 as Director of Raw Materials, where he led a team responsible for sourcing strategic raw materials. Before joining Celanese, he had additional roles in supply chain, sales and manufacturing management with Chemtura, Cabot Microelectronics and Rohm & Haas. Mr. Kelly also served as a board member of Nucera Solutions, a provider of specialty polymer solutions, from June 2021 through August 2022, and of Vertellus Global Holdings LLC, a supplier of specialty chemical products, from August 2019 through December 2020. He holds a Master of Business Administration from Drexel University, and Master's and Bachelor's Degrees in Chemical Engineering from Villanova University.

30

Table of Contents
Mark C. Murray was named Senior Vice President, Acetyls in February 2023 after having served as the interim leader of Celanese's Acetyls Business since November 2022. Before rejoining Celanese in June 2022 as Vice President of Business Strategy and Development, Mr. Murray served as Executive Vice President, Biomaterials and Advanced Technologies at Avantor, a global materials manufacturer and distributor. Mr. Murray previously served in senior commercial and business roles within the Acetyl Chain and Engineered Materials businesses at Celanese from November 2009 through June 2019 and from May 2002 to March 2007. Earlier in his career he served as a consultant with McKinsey & Co. Mr. Murray holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin and a Master of Business Administration from Northwestern University.
A. Lynne Puckett joined Celanese Corporation in February 2019 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to that, Ms. Puckett was Senior Vice President‚ General Counsel and Secretary of Colfax Corporation since 2010. Prior to Colfax‚ she was a Partner with the law firm of Hogan Lovells. Her experience includes a broad range of corporate and transactional matters‚ including mergers and acquisitions‚ venture capital financings‚ debt and equity offerings‚ and general corporate and securities law matters. Before entering the practice of law‚ Ms. Puckett worked for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and a major U.S. defense contractor. She currently serves on the board of directors of Markel Corporation, an insurance and investment operations holding company and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the American Shakespeare Center. Ms. Puckett received a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Maryland School of Law and a Bachelor of Science degree from James Madison University.

31

Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Market Information
Our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share ("Common Stock"), has traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CE" since January 21, 2005.
Holders
As of February 10, 2023, there were 111 holders of record of our Common Stock. A substantially greater number of holders of our common stock are "street name" or beneficial holders, whose shares of record are held by banks, brokers and other financial institutions.
Dividend Policy
The amount available to us to pay cash dividends is not currently restricted by our existing senior credit facilities and our indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. Also, the general corporation law of the State of Delaware imposes restrictions on the payment of dividends by all Delaware corporations that do not currently limit our ability to pay our current and anticipated regular cash dividends. See Note 14 - Shareholders' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Celanese Purchases of its Equity Securities
We did not repurchase any Common Stock during the three months ended December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of $6.9 billion of our Common Stock since February 2008, with approximately $1.1 billion value of shares remaining that may be purchased under the program. See Note 14 - Shareholders' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

32

Table of Contents
Performance Graph
The following performance graph compares the cumulative total return on Celanese Corporation Common Stock from December 31, 2017 through December 31, 2022 to that of the Standard & Poor's ("S&P") 500 Stock Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Chemicals Index. Cumulative total return represents the change in stock price and the amount of dividends received during the indicated period, assuming reinvestment of all dividends. The performance graph assumes an investment of $100 on December 31, 2017. The stock performance shown in the graph is included in response to SEC requirements and is not intended to forecast or to be indicative of future performance.
Comparison of Cumulative Total Return

The above performance graph and related information shall not be deemed "soliciting material" or to be "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
Our deferred compensation plan offers certain of our senior employees and directors the opportunity to defer a portion of their compensation in exchange for a future payment amount equal to their deferments plus or minus certain amounts based upon the market-performance of specified measurement funds selected by the participant. These deferred compensation obligations may be considered securities of Celanese. Participants were required to make deferral elections under the plan prior to January 1 of the year such deferrals will be withheld from their compensation. We relied on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act in making this offer to a select group of employees, fewer than 35 of which were non-accredited investors under the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 6. Reserved
This item is no longer required, as the Company has adopted the amendment to Item 301 of Regulation S-K contained in SEC Release No. 33-10890, which became effective on February 10, 2021.

33

Table of Contents
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report"), the term "Celanese" refers to Celanese Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The terms the "Company," "we," "our" and "us," refer to Celanese and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The term "Celanese U.S." refers to the Company's subsidiary, Celanese US Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and not its subsidiaries.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP").
Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and other parts of this Annual Report involve both risk and uncertainty. Several important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. Many of these statements are macroeconomic in nature and are, therefore, beyond the control of management. See "Forward-Looking Statements" below.
Forward-Looking Statements
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") and other parts of this Annual Report contain certain forward-looking statements and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, us. Generally, words such as "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "may," "can," "could," "might," and "will," and similar expressions, as they relate to us are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current views and beliefs with respect to future events at the time that the statements are made, are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Further, certain forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the beginning of this Annual Report for further discussion. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this Annual Report will increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise.
Risk Factors
Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report also contains a description of certain risk factors that you should consider which could significantly affect our financial results. In addition, the following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results, performance or achievements that may be expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements:
•changes in general economic, business, political and regulatory conditions in the countries or regions in which we operate;
•volatility or changes in the price and availability of raw materials and energy, particularly changes in the demand for, supply of, and market prices of ethylene, methanol, natural gas, wood pulp and fuel oil and the prices for electricity and other energy sources;
•the length and depth of product and industry business cycles particularly in the automotive, electrical, textiles, electronics and construction industries;
•the ability to pass increases in raw material prices, logistics costs and other costs on to customers or otherwise improve margins through price increases;
•the accuracy or inaccuracy of our beliefs or assumptions regarding anticipated benefits of the acquisition (the "M&M Acquisition") by us of the majority of the Mobility & Materials business (the "M&M Business") of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ("DuPont"), including as a result of the performance of the M&M Business between signing and closing of the M&M Acquisition;
•the possibility that we will not be able to realize anticipated improvements in the M&M Business's financial performance – including optimizing pricing, currency mix and inventory – or realize the anticipated benefits of the M&M Acquisition, including synergies and growth opportunities, within the anticipated timeframe or at all, whether as a result of difficulties

34

Table of Contents
arising from the operation or integration of the M&M Business or other unanticipated delays, costs, inefficiencies or liabilities;
•increased commercial, legal or regulatory complexity of entering into, or expanding our exposure to, certain end markets and geographies;
•risks in the global economy and equity and credit markets and their potential impact on our ability to pay down debt in the future and/or refinance at suitable rates, in a timely manner, or at all;
•diversion of management's attention from ongoing business operations and opportunities and other disruption caused by the M&M Acquisition and the integration processes and their impact on our existing business and relationships;
•risks and costs associated with increased leverage from the M&M Acquisition, including increased interest expense and potential reduction of business and strategic flexibility;
•the ability to maintain plant utilization rates and to implement planned capacity additions, expansions and maintenance;
•the ability to reduce or maintain current levels of production costs and to improve productivity by implementing technological improvements to existing plants;
•increased price competition and the introduction of competing products by other companies;
•the ability to identify desirable potential acquisition or divestiture opportunities and to complete such transactions, including obtaining regulatory approvals, consistent with our strategy;
•market acceptance of our products and technology;
•compliance and other costs and potential disruption or interruption of production or operations due to accidents, interruptions in sources of raw materials, transportation, logistics or supply chain disruptions, cybersecurity incidents, terrorism or political unrest, public health crises (including, but not limited to, the COVID-19 pandemic), or other unforeseen events or delays in construction or operation of facilities, including as a result of geopolitical conditions, the occurrence of acts of war (such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict) or terrorist incidents or as a result of weather, natural disasters, or other crises;
•the ability to obtain governmental approvals and to construct facilities on terms and schedules acceptable to us;
•changes in applicable tariffs, duties and trade agreements, tax rates or legislation throughout the world including, but not limited to, adjustments, changes in estimates or interpretations or the resolution of tax examinations or audits that may impact recorded or future tax impacts and potential regulatory and legislative tax developments in the United States and other jurisdictions;
•changes in the degree of intellectual property and other legal protection afforded to our products or technologies, or the theft of such intellectual property;
•potential liability for remedial actions and increased costs under existing or future environmental, health and safety regulations, including those relating to climate change or other sustainability matters;
•potential liability resulting from pending or future claims or litigation, including investigations or enforcement actions, or from changes in the laws, regulations or policies of governments or other governmental activities, in the countries in which we operate;
•changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates; and
•various other factors, both referenced and not referenced in this Annual Report.

35

Table of Contents
Many of these factors are macroeconomic in nature and are, therefore, beyond our control. COVID-19 and responses to the pandemic by governments and businesses, have significantly increased financial, economic and cost volatility and uncertainty, exacerbating the risks and potential impact of these factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, affect us in ways or to an extent that we currently do not expect or consider to be significant, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, planned or projected. We neither intend nor assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.
Results of Operations
Financial Highlights

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- - ---- ----- ------ -----
 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2022 2021 Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Statement of Operations Data
Net sales 9,673 8,537 1,136
Gross profit 2,380 2,682 (302)
Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses (824) (633) (191)
Other (charges) gains, net (8) 3 (11)
Operating profit (loss) 1,378 1,946 (568)
Equity in net earnings (loss) of affiliates 220 146 74
Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit (expense) income 17 106 (89)
Interest expense (405) (91) (314)

Interest income 69 8 61
Dividend income - equity investments 133 147 (14)

Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before tax 1,421 2,248 (827)
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 1,910 1,918 (8)
Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations (8) (22) 14
Net earnings (loss) 1,902 1,896 6
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Celanese Corporation 1,894 1,890 4
Other Data
Depreciation and amortization 462 371 91
SG&A expenses as a percentage of Net sales 8.5 % 7.4 %
Operating margin(1) 14.2 % 22.8 %
Other (charges) gains, net
Restructuring (6) (5) (1)

Asset impairments (14) (2) (12)
Plant/office closures 12 10 2

Total Other (charges) gains, net (8) 3 (11)

_____________________________
(1)Defined as Operating profit (loss) divided by Net sales.

36

Table of Contents

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- -----
 As of December 31,
 2022 2021
 (In $ millions)
Balance Sheet Data
Cash and cash equivalents 1,508 536

Short-term borrowings and current installments of long-term debt - third party and affiliates 1,306 791
Long-term debt, net of unamortized deferred financing costs 13,373 3,176
Total debt 14,679 3,967

Factors Affecting Business Segment Net Sales
The percentage increase (decrease) in Net sales attributable to each of the factors indicated for each of our business segments is as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021

-------------------- ---------------- ----- -- -------- --- ----- ---
 Volume Price Currency Total
 (In percentages)
Engineered Materials 33 23 (8) 48

Acetyl Chain (6) 6 (3) (3)
Total Company 6 11 (4) 13

Consolidated Results
Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021
Net sales increased $1.1 billion, or 13%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•higher pricing in both of our segments, primarily driven by our Engineered Materials segment, due to higher raw material costs, higher energy costs and product mix; and
•higher volume in our Engineered Materials segment, primarily in elastomers related to our acquisition of the majority of the Mobility & Materials business (the "M&M Business"), our acquisition of the Santoprene™ thermoplastic vulcanizates elastomers business of Exxon Mobil Corporation ("Santoprene"), as well as the Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd., ("KEPCO") restructuring;
partially offset by:
•an unfavorable currency impact resulting from a weaker euro relative to the U.S. dollar; and
•lower volume in our Acetyl Chain segment, primarily due to decreased demand in Asia.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $191 million, or 30%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021, primarily due to:
•higher functional and project spending of $187 million in Other Activities, primarily related to our acquisitions of the M&M Business and Santoprene.
Operating profit decreased $568 million, or 29%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•higher raw material and energy costs in both of our segments;
•higher spending in both of our segments, primarily as a result of our acquisitions of the M&M Business and Santoprene, as well as increased plant operating and maintenance expenses; and

37

Table of Contents
•lower Net sales in our Acetyl Chain segment;
partially offset by:
•higher Net sales in our Engineered Materials segment.
Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit income decreased $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to an increase in recognized actuarial loss of $40 million as a result of lower than expected actual asset returns, partially offset by an increase in the weighted average discount rate used to determine benefit obligations from 2.5% to 4.9% and a decrease in expected asset returns of $39 million. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 was (34)% compared to 15% for the year ended 2021. The lower effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 was primarily due to the reorganization of our foreign legal entity holding structure and relocation of certain of our intangible assets to align with the acquired M&M Business foreign operations. See Note 15 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

Discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 and for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, can be found in Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Reports for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively.

38

Table of Contents
Business Segments
Engineered Materials

------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- - ---- ----- ------ ------ ---- -
 Year EndedDecember 31, %
 2022 2021 Change Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Net sales 4,024 2,718 1,306 48.1 %
Net Sales Variance
Volume 33 %
Price 23 %
Currency (8) %

Operating profit (loss) 429 411 18 4.4 %
Operating margin 10.7 % 15.1 %
Equity in net earnings (loss) of affiliates 202 126 76 60.3 %

Depreciation and amortization 226 144 82 56.9 %

Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021
Net sales increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•higher volume, primarily in elastomers related to our acquisition of the M&M Business, our acquisition of Santoprene, as well as the KEPCO restructuring. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information; and
•higher pricing for most of our products, primarily due to higher raw material costs, higher energy costs and product mix;
partially offset by:
•an unfavorable currency impact resulting from a weaker euro relative to the U.S. dollar.
Operating profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•higher Net sales;
largely offset by:
•higher raw material costs for all of our products and increased sourcing costs as a result of higher logistical costs and global shipping constraints and our acquisition of the M&M Business;
•higher spending of $258 million, primarily as a result of our acquisitions of the M&M Business and Santoprene, as well as plant operating and administrative expenses; and
•higher energy costs of $124 million, primarily for steam.
Equity in net earnings (loss) of affiliates increased for the for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•an increase in equity investment in earnings of $90 million from our Ibn Sina strategic affiliate, primarily as a result of tighter market conditions and stronger demand.

39

Table of Contents
Acetyl Chain

------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- - ---- ----- ------ ------ ------ -
 Year EndedDecember 31, %
 2022 2021 Change Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Net sales 5,743 5,894 (151) (2.6) %
Net Sales Variance
Volume (6) %
Price 6 %
Currency (3) %

Operating profit (loss) 1,447 1,875 (428) (22.8) %
Operating margin 25.2 % 31.8 %
Dividend income - equity investments 132 146 (14) (9.6) %
Depreciation and amortization 213 210 3 1.4 %

Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021
Net sales decreased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•lower volume for most of our products due to decreased demand, primarily in Asia; and
•an unfavorable currency impact resulting from a weaker euro relative to the U.S. dollar;
partially offset by:
•higher pricing for most of our products, primarily due to tighter market conditions as a result of increased customer demand in the Western Hemisphere and supply constraints across most regions; and
•higher volume for VAM due to increased demand.
Operating profit decreased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•higher raw material and sourcing costs, primarily for methanol and carbon monoxide due to stronger demand and tighter market conditions, as well as higher distribution costs due to global shipping constraints;
•lower Net sales;
•higher energy costs of $89 million, primarily due to price increases for natural gas and electricity; and
•higher spending of $53 million, primarily as a result of increased plant operating and maintenance expenses.

40

Table of Contents
Other Activities

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ---- ----- ------ ------ ------ -
 Year EndedDecember 31, %
 2022 2021 Change Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)

Operating profit (loss) (498) (340) (158) (46.5) %

Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit (expense) income 17 106 (89) (84.0) %

Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021
Operating loss increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•higher functional and project spending of $187 million, primarily related to our acquisitions of the M&M Business and Santoprene;
partially offset by:
•lower incentive compensation cost.
Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit income decreased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 primarily due to:
•an increase in recognized actuarial loss of $40 million as a result of lower than expected actual asset returns, partially offset by an increase in the weighted average discount rate used to determine benefit obligations from 2.5% to 4.9%, and a decrease in expected asset returns of $39 million. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations, available cash and cash equivalents, dividends from our portfolio of strategic investments and available borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2022, we have $1.45 billion available for borrowing under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, if required, in meeting our working capital needs and other contractual obligations. In addition, we held cash and cash equivalents of $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2022. We are actively managing our business to maintain cash flow, and we believe that liquidity from the above-referenced sources will be sufficient to meet our operational and capital investment needs and financial obligations for the foreseeable future.
On November 1, 2022, we acquired a majority of the M&M Business for a purchase price of $11.0 billion, subject to transaction adjustments, in an all-cash transaction. For further information regarding the acquisition and related financing transactions, see Debt and Other Obligations in this Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
While our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant, we continue to believe we will have available resources to meet our liquidity requirements, including debt service, for the next twelve months. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations, we may be required to use other means available to us such as increasing our borrowings, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, seeking additional capital or seeking to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels.
Capital expenditures were $543 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. We continue to prioritize those projects expected to drive productivity in the near-term and expect capital expenditures to be approximately $600 million in 2023, primarily due to certain investments in growth opportunities and productivity improvements. In Engineered Materials, our expansion of (1) the compounding capacity and (2) the new liquid crystal polymer ("LCP") unit at our facilities in Nanjing, China are, after experiencing some delays due to certain permitting issues, in detailed engineering design and our (3) energy optimization productivity project at our polyoxymethylene ("POM") unit in Frankfurt, Germany is in front end engineering design. In the Acetyl Chain, our planned expansion of (1) the capacity of our vinyl acetate ethylene ("VAE") emulsions units in Nanjing, China, (2) the capacity of our vinyl acetate monomer ("VAM") plant in Bay City, Texas, (3) the sustainable

41

Table of Contents
production of methanol at our Fairway joint venture methanol unit in Clear Lake, Texas using captured carbon dioxide as feedstock, (4) our acetic acid complex expansion in Clear Lake, Texas and (5) our VAE emulsion plant expansion in Frankfurt, Germany, are in various stages of construction and on schedule. We continue to see the incremental capacity from investments made in recent years strengthen our manufacturing network reliability to best serve our customers.
We did not repurchase any Common Stock during the year ended December 31, 2022.
On a stand-alone basis, Celanese and its immediate 100% owned subsidiary, Celanese U.S., have no independent external operations of their own. Accordingly, they generally depend on the cash flow of their subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to Celanese and Celanese U.S. in order to meet their obligations, including their obligations under senior credit facilities and senior notes, and to pay dividends on our Common Stock.
We are subject to capital controls and exchange restrictions imposed by the local governments in certain jurisdictions where we operate, such as China, India and Indonesia. Capital controls impose limitations on our ability to exchange currencies, repatriate earnings or capital, lend via intercompany loans or create cross-border cash pooling arrangements. Our largest exposure to a country with capital controls is in China. Pursuant to applicable regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, the Chinese government imposes certain currency exchange controls on cash transfers out of China, puts certain limitations on duration, purpose and amount of intercompany loans, and restricts cross-border cash pooling. While it is possible that future tightening of these restrictions or application of new similar restrictions could impact us, these limitations do not currently restrict our operations.
We remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and expect to remain in compliance based on our current expectation of future results of operations. If our actual future results of operations differ materially from these expectations, or if we otherwise experience increased indebtedness or substantially lower EBITDA, we may be required to seek an amendment or waiver of such covenants which may increase our borrowing costs under those debt instruments.
Cash Flows
Cash and cash equivalents increased $972 million to $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2022, $1.3 billion of the $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Under the TCJA, we have incurred a prior year charge associated with the deemed repatriation of previously unremitted foreign earnings, including foreign held cash. These funds are largely accessible without additional material tax consequences, if needed in the U.S., to fund operations. See Note 15 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021
•Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $62 million to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $1.8 billion for the same period in 2021, primarily due to:
•favorable changes in trade working capital of $291 million, primarily due to the timing of collections of trade receivables, inventory builds and settlement of trade payables;
partially offset by:
•a lower earnings performance.
•Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities increased $10.0 billion to $11.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $1.1 billion for the same period in 2021, primarily due to:
•a net cash outflow of $9.4 billion related to the M&M Acquisition in November 2022, partially offset by the acquisition of the Santoprene™ thermoplastic vulcanizates elastomers business of Exxon Mobil Corporation in 2021,which did not recur in the current year. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information; and

42

Table of Contents
•proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $516 million, which did not recur in the current year.
•Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities increased $11.3 billion to $10.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1.0 billion for the same period in 2021, primarily due to:
•an increase in net proceeds of long-term debt of $10.0 billion, primarily due to the issuance of senior unsecured notes consisting of $2.0 billion in principal amount of 5.900% notes due July 5, 2024, $1.75 billion in principal amount of 6.050% notes due March 15, 2025, $2.0 billion in principal amount of 6.165% notes due July 15, 2027, $750 million in principal amount of 6.330% notes due July 15, 2029 and $1.0 billion in principal amount of 6.379% notes due July 15, 2032 (collectively, the "Acquisition USD Notes"), as well as senior unsecured notes consisting of €1.0 billion in principal amount of 4.777% notes due July 19, 2026 and €500 million in principal amount of 5.337% notes due January 19, 2029 (collectively, the "Acquisition Euro Notes" and, together with the Acquisition USD Notes, the "Acquisition Notes"), partially offset by the maturity of the 5.875% senior unsecured notes ("5.875% Notes") which were repaid during the year ended December 31, 2021;
•a decrease in share repurchases of our Common Stock of $983 million during the year ended December 31, 2022; and
•an increase in net borrowings on short-term debt of $336 million, primarily due to borrowing under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility related to the M&M Acquisition in November 2022.
In addition, exchange rates had a favorable impact of $4 million on cash and cash equivalents and an unfavorable impact of $15 million on cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Debt and Other Obligations
•Senior Credit Facilities
In connection with the M&M Acquisition, on February 17, 2022, we entered into a bridge facility commitment letter with Bank of America, N.A. ("Bank of America") pursuant to which Bank of America committed to provide, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, a 364-day $11.0 billion senior unsecured bridge term loan facility (the "Bridge Facility"). Subsequently, commitments in respect of the Bridge Facility were syndicated to additional financial institutions as contemplated thereby.
On March 18, 2022, we entered into a term loan credit agreement (the "March 2022 Term Loan Credit Agreement"), pursuant to which lenders have provided a tranche of delayed-draw term loans due 364 days from issuance in an amount equal to $500 million and a tranche of delayed-draw term loans due 5 years from issuance in an amount equal to $1.0 billion. On September 16, 2022, Celanese, Celanese U.S. and certain subsidiaries entered into an additional term loan credit agreement (the "September 2022 Term Loan Credit Agreement" and, together with the March 2022 Term Loan Credit Agreement, the "Term Loan Credit Agreements"), pursuant to which lenders have provided delayed-draw term loans due 3 years from issuance in an amount equal to $750 million (the term loans represented by the Term Loan Credit Agreements collectively, the "Term Loan Facility"). The Term Loan Facility was fully drawn during the three months ended December 31, 2022. The Term Loan Facility is guaranteed by Celanese and domestic subsidiaries representing substantially all of our U.S. assets and business operations.
On March 18, 2022, we entered into a new revolving credit agreement (the "New Revolving Credit Agreement" and, together with the Term Loan Credit Agreements the "Credit Agreements") consisting of a $1.75 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (with a letter of credit sublimit), maturing in 2027. The proceeds of a $365 million borrowing under the new senior unsecured revolving credit facility were used to repay and terminate our existing revolving credit facility.

43

Table of Contents
•Senior Notes
We have outstanding senior unsecured notes, issued in public offerings registered under the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act"), as amended, as follows (collectively, the "Senior Notes"):

------------ -------------- ------------- ---------------- ------------------ ------------------ --------------
Senior Notes Issue Date Principal Interest Rate Interest Pay Dates Maturity Date
 (In millions) (In percentages)

1.125% Notes September 2016 €450 1.125 September 26 September 26, 2023
3.500% Notes May 2019 $500 3.500 May 8 November 8 May 8, 2024
5.900% Notes July 2022 $2,000 5.900 January 5 July 5 July 5, 2024
1.250% Notes December 2017 €300 1.250 February 11 February 11, 2025
6.050% Notes July 2022 $1,750 6.050 March 15 September 15 March 15, 2025
4.777% Notes July 2022 €1,000 4.777 July 19 July 19, 2026
1.400% Notes August 2021 $400 1.400 February 5 August 5 August 5, 2026
2.125% Notes November 2018 €500 2.125 March 1 March 1, 2027
6.165% Notes July 2022 $2,000 6.165 January 15 July 15 July 15, 2027
0.625% Notes September 2021 €500 0.625 September 10 September 10, 2028
5.337% Notes July 2022 €500 5.337 January 19 January 19, 2029
6.330% Notes July 2022 $750 6.330 January 15 July 15 July 15, 2029
6.379% Notes July 2022 $1,000 6.379 January 15 July 15 July 15, 2032

The Senior Notes were issued by Celanese U.S. and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Celanese and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Celanese U.S. may redeem some or all of each of the Senior Notes, prior to their respective maturity dates, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount, plus a "make-whole" premium as specified in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date.
On July 14, 2022 and July 19, 2022, Celanese U.S. completed the offerings of the Acquisition USD Notes and Acquisition Euro Notes, respectively. Fees and expenses of the offering of the Acquisition Notes, inclusive of underwriting discounts, were $65 million. Net proceeds from the sale of the Acquisition Notes were used to fund the purchase price for the M&M Acquisition, with any remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes.
The entry into the Term Loan Credit Agreements and the offerings of the Acquisition Notes reduced availability under the Bridge Facility to zero, and we terminated the Bridge Facility. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we paid $66 million in fees related to the Bridge Facility commitment, amortizing these fees to interest expense.
•Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
In 2021, we entered into an amendment to the amended and restated receivables purchase agreement under our U.S. accounts receivable purchasing facility among certain of our subsidiaries, our wholly-owned, "bankruptcy remote" special purpose subsidiary ("SPE") and certain global financial institutions ("Purchasers"). We de-recognized $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion of accounts receivable under this agreement for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and collected $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion of accounts receivable sold under this agreement during the same periods. Unsold U.S. accounts receivable of $99 million were pledged by the SPE as collateral to the Purchasers as of December 31, 2022.
•Factoring and Discounting Agreements
We have factoring agreements in Europe and Singapore with financial institutions. We de-recognized $320 million and $230 million of accounts receivable under these factoring agreements for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and collected $325 million and $185 million of accounts receivable sold under these factoring agreements during the same periods.
In 2021, we entered into a letter of credit discounting agreement in Singapore with a financial institution. We de-recognized $50 million and $70 million of accounts receivable under this agreement for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Our material financing arrangements contain customary covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios, events of default and change of control provisions. Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of any other event of

44

Table of Contents
default, could result in acceleration of the borrowings and other financial obligations. We are in compliance with all of the covenants related to our debt agreements as of December 31, 2022. On February 21, 2023, we amended the Credit Agreements for certain covenants included in the respective credit agreements.
See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Guarantor Financial Information
We have outstanding senior unsecured notes, issued in public offerings registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (collectively, the "Senior Notes"). The Senior Notes were issued by Celanese U.S. ("Issuer") and are guaranteed by Celanese Corporation ("Parent Guarantor") and the Subsidiary Guarantors (collectively the "Obligor Group"). See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information. The Issuer and Subsidiary Guarantors are 100% owned subsidiaries of the Parent Guarantor. The Subsidiary Guarantors are listed in Exhibit 22.1 to this Annual Report.
The Parent Guarantor and the Subsidiary Guarantors have guaranteed the Senior Notes on a full and unconditional, joint and several, senior unsecured basis. The guarantees are subject to certain customary release provisions, including that a Subsidiary Guarantor will be released from its respective guarantee in specified circumstances, including (i) the sale or transfer of all of its assets or capital stock; (ii) its merger or consolidation with, or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets to, another person; or (iii) its ceasing to be a majority-owned subsidiary of the Issuer in connection with any sale of its capital stock or other transaction. Additionally, a Subsidiary Guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the Senior Notes at such time that it ceases to guarantee the Issuer's obligations under the Credit Agreement (subject to the satisfaction of customary document delivery requirements). The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under their guarantees are limited as necessary to prevent such guarantees from constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under applicable law.
The Parent Guarantor and the Issuer are holding companies that conduct substantially all of their operations through their subsidiaries, which own substantially all of our consolidated assets. The Parent Guarantor has no material assets other than the stock of its immediate 100% owned subsidiary, the Issuer. The principal source of cash to pay the Parent Guarantor's and the Issuer's obligations, including obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of the Issuer's obligations under the Credit Agreement, is the cash that our subsidiaries generate from their operations. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors and our non-guarantor subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, applicable country or state laws, regulatory limitations and terms of other debt instruments may limit our subsidiaries' ability to distribute cash to the Issuer and the Parent Guarantor.
For cash management purposes, we transfer cash among the Parent Guarantor, Issuer, Subsidiary Guarantors and non-guarantors through intercompany financing arrangements, contributions or declaration of dividends between the respective parent and its subsidiaries. While the non-guarantor subsidiaries do not guarantee the Issuer's obligations under our outstanding debt, the transfer of cash under these activities facilitates the ability of the recipient to make specified third-party payments for principal and interest on the Senior Notes, Credit Agreement, other outstanding debt, Common Stock dividends and Common Stock repurchases.
The summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is presented below on a combined basis after the elimination of: (i) intercompany transactions among such entities and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in the non-guarantor subsidiaries. Transactions with, and amounts due to or from, non-guarantor subsidiaries and affiliates are separately disclosed.

----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
 Year Ended December 31,2022
 (In $ millions)

Net sales to third parties 2,022
Net sales to non-guarantor subsidiaries 1,160
Total net sales 3,182
Gross profit 609
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 327
Net earnings (loss) 321
Net earnings (loss) attributable to the Obligor Group 321

45

Table of Contents

-------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- -----
 As of December 31,
 2022 2021
 (In $ millions)

Receivables from non-guarantor subsidiaries 754 624
Other current assets 1,588 1,236
Total current assets 2,342 1,860
Goodwill 567 578
Other noncurrent assets 2,718 2,584
Total noncurrent assets 3,285 3,162
Current liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries 2,100 2,493
Current liabilities due to affiliates 2 64
Other current liabilities 2,201 1,347
Total current liabilities 4,303 3,904
Noncurrent liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries 3,400 2,348
Other noncurrent liabilities 13,842 3,610
Total noncurrent liabilities 17,242 5,958

Share Capital
On February 8, 2023, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.70 per share on our Common Stock amounting to approximately $76 million. The cash dividend will be paid on March 7, 2023 to holders of record as of February 21, 2023.
Our Board of Directors has authorized the aggregate repurchase of $6.9 billion of our Common Stock since February 2008. These authorizations give management discretion in determining the timing and conditions under which shares may be repurchased. This repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we did not repurchase any shares of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2022, we had $1.1 billion remaining under authorizations by our Board of Directors.
See Note 14 - Shareholders' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Contractual Obligations, Guarantees and Commitments
We calculated $2.7 billion of all future interest payments on debt and other obligations using the rate in effect on December 31, 2022 and $476 million of all future pension and other postretirement funding obligations. We have directly guaranteed various debt obligations under agreements with third parties related to certain equity affiliates. As of December 31, 2022, we have directly guaranteed $142 million and €27 million of such obligations.
We have not entered into any material off-balance sheet arrangements.
In the accompanying consolidated financial statements, see Note 10 - Current Other Liabilities for current asset retirement obligations, Note 11 - Debt for a description of the guarantees under our Senior Notes and Credit Agreement, Note 12 - Benefit Obligations for a description of the pension and other postretirement funding obligations, Note 13 - Environmental for a description of environmental obligations, Note 15 - Income Taxes for a description of uncertain tax positions, Note 16 - Leases for lease obligations and Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies for a discussion of commitments and contingencies related to legal and regulatory proceedings.
Market Risks
See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk for further information.
Business Environment
We experienced significant cost inflation, inflationary pressure and supply disruptions related to the sourcing of raw materials, energy, logistics and labor in 2022. We continue to closely monitor the impact of, and responses to, COVID-19 variants, including government imposed lockdowns and permitted reopenings in various locations around the world, and the effects of geopolitical events on demand conditions and the supply chain. Demand conditions across certain regions in the Western Hemisphere and China deteriorated, creating uncertainty, impacting consumer activity and driving customer destocking.

46

Table of Contents
Average prices of energy feedstocks, particularly natural gas, which are a significant input and source of energy for our manufacturing operations, increased in the Western Hemisphere and particularly in Europe. We also experienced cost pressure on raw material inputs. We continued pricing actions intended to offset these inflationary headwinds experienced during 2022. Moderation of acetyls pricing trended to more normalized levels by the end of 2022. We expect sourcing costs and inflationary pressures to improve in 2023.
We continue to monitor the situation in Ukraine. While the conflict has not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, we have experienced shortages in materials and increased costs for transportation, energy and raw materials as well as other supply chain challenges, particularly in Europe, due in part to the effects of the conflict, and government responses thereto, including sanctions, on the global economy. We continue to monitor these developments.
Following Russia's invasion, we have suspended sales into Russia, Belarus and the sanctioned regions of Ukraine. Revenue from these countries and regions constituted less than 1% of our consolidated Net sales for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 and we have no manufacturing assets in these countries or regions.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of significant accounting policies. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales, expenses and allocated charges during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. However, we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different results.
We believe the following accounting policies and estimates are critical to understanding the financial reporting risks present in the current economic environment. These matters, and the judgments and uncertainties affecting them, are also essential to understanding our reported and future operating results. See Note 2 - Summary of Accounting Policies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
•Purchase Accounting
We recognize the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of purchase price over the aggregate fair values is recorded as goodwill. Intangible assets are valued using the relief from royalty, multi-period excess earnings and discounted cash flow methodologies, which are considered Level 3 measurements. The relief from royalty method estimates our theoretical royalty savings from ownership of the intangible asset. Key assumptions used in this method include discount rates, royalty rates, growth rates, sales projections and terminal value rates. Key assumptions used in the multi-period excess earnings method include discount rates, retention rates, growth rates, sales projections, expense projections and contributory asset charges. Key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow valuation model include discount rates, growth rates, tax rates, cash flow projections and terminal value rates. All of these methodologies require significant management judgment and, therefore, are susceptible to change. We calculate the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to allocate the purchase price at the acquisition date. We may use the assistance of third-party valuation consultants. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
•Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets
Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets
We assess the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the third quarter of our fiscal year using June 30 balances or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable.
When assessing the recoverability of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may first assess qualitative factors in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or other indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. The qualitative evaluation is an assessment of multiple factors, including the current operating environment, financial performance and market considerations. We may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for some or all of our reporting units or other indefinite-lived intangible assets and proceed directly to a quantitative analysis depending on the facts and circumstances.

47

Table of Contents
In performing a quantitative analysis of goodwill, recoverability of goodwill for each reporting unit is measured using a discounted cash flow model incorporating discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow valuation model include discount rates, growth rates, tax rates, cash flow projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates, growth rates and cash flow projections are the most sensitive and susceptible to change as they require significant management judgment.
Management tests other indefinite-lived intangible assets quantitatively utilizing the relief from royalty method under the income approach to determine the estimated fair value for each indefinite-lived intangible asset. Key assumptions used in this model include discount rates, royalty rates, growth rates, tax rates, sales projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates, royalty rates, growth rates, growth rates and sales projections are the assumptions most sensitive and susceptible to change as they require significant management judgment.
Specific assumptions discussed above are updated at the date of each test to consider current industry and company-specific risk factors from the perspective of a market participant. The current business environment is subject to evolving market conditions and requires significant management judgment to interpret the potential impact to our assumptions. To the extent that changes in the current business environment result in adjusted management projections, impairment losses may occur in future periods.
See Note 9 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
•Benefit Obligations
Various assumptions are used in the calculation of the actuarial valuation of the employee benefit plans. These key assumptions include the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions. These differences may result in a significant impact to the amount of net periodic benefit cost recorded in future periods.
Pension assumptions are reviewed annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is required to be remeasured. Assumptions are reviewed on a plan and country-specific basis by third-party actuaries and senior management. Such assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes in market rates and outlook.
See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
The estimated change in pension net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligations that would occur in 2023 from a change in the indicated assumptions are as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- - ----------------------------------- --- --------------------------------------- ---
 Change in Rate Impact on Net Periodic Benefit Cost Impact on Projected Benefit Obligations
 (In $ millions)
U.S. Pension Benefits
Decrease in the discount rate 0.5 % (5) 85
Decrease in the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets(1) 0.5 % 10 N/A
Non-U.S. Pension Benefits
Decrease in the discount rate 0.5 % (1) 53
Decrease in the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets 0.5 % 3 N/A

______________________________
(1)Excludes nonqualified pension plans.
•Income Taxes
We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance as needed. In forming our judgment regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences and tax attribute carryforwards, we give weight to positive and negative evidence based on the extent to which the forms of evidence can be objectively verified.

48

Table of Contents
The recoverability of deferred tax assets and the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions are subject to various assumptions and management judgment. If actual results differ from the estimates made by management in establishing or maintaining valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the resulting change in the valuation allowance would generally impact earnings or Other comprehensive income depending on the nature of the respective deferred tax asset. In addition, the positions taken with regard to tax contingencies may be subject to audit and review by tax authorities, which may result in future taxes, interest and penalties.
See Note 15 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[See Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition are impacted we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and a related research and development agreement, of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State and job creation requirements, then breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial revenue of Ahern by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106 The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[PART II
Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[Exhibit 22.1 to ]:
[Exhibit 22.1: List of Guarantor Subsidiaries Filed herewith.]

[' products. These risks include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, delays in or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Furthermore, some of the industries in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use applications, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and the pricing of our products. In addition, many of these industries are highly cyclical in nature, thus posing risks to us that vary throughout the year and vary according to macroeconomic factors. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.
We may incur significant charges in the event we close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility.
We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing certain products or close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. We also have shared services agreements at several of our plants and if such agreements are terminated or revised, we would assess and potentially adjust our manufacturing operations. The closure or divestiture of all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility could result in future charges that could be significant. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
The insurance coverage that we maintain may not fully cover all operational risks.
We maintain property, business interruption, casualty and cyber/information security insurance but such insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In the future, the types of insurance we obtain and the level of coverage we maintain may be inadequate or we may be unable to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost.
Risks associated with our joint ventures, including differences in views with our joint venture partners may cause them not to operate according to their business plans, which may adversely affect our results of operations.
We currently participate in a number of joint ventures, acquired interests in several additional joint ventures through the M&M Acquisition and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint ventures require us to work cooperatively with unaffiliated third parties. Differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failure to agree on major decisions. Additionally, our partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations to the joint ventures, which could negatively impact them. If these risks cause the joint ventures to fail to achieve their desired operating performance, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact our profitability.
We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S. Consequently, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the euro, may materially affect our operating results. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the cost of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rates can also impact the competitiveness of products produced in certain jurisdictions and exported for sale into other jurisdictions. These changes may impact the value received for the sale of our goods versus those of our competitors.
In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary']:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

['s attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a significant partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Although we have standard contracting policies and controls, we may not always be able to contractually limit our exposure to third party claims should our failure to perform result in downstream supply disruptions or product recalls.
Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs.
Costs related to our compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and potential obligations with respect to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, may have a negative impact on our operating results. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between Celanese GmbH and Hoechst AG for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. See Note 13 - Environmental in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other laws and regulations that govern environmental, health and safety matters and that regulate the handling, manufacture, use, emission and disposal of products, materials and hazardous and non-hazardous waste. If we violate any one of those laws or regulations, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. We could also face claims for damages from individuals or groups for alleged violations of these laws or regulations.
We also incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with environmental, health and safety requirements. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could result in substantial additional costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations. Consequently, compliance with these laws and regulations may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. See Item 7. Management']:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

['s obligations under the Credit Agreements and the Indentures by Celanese, or our other indebtedness.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.

28

Table of Contents
Item 2.  Properties
Description of Property
Our corporate headquarters is located in Irving, Texas and we also have administrative offices in Amsterdam, Netherlands; Asturias, Spain; Budapest, Hungary; Hyderabad, India; Kunshan, China; Mexico City, Mexico; Nanjing, China; Shanghai, China; and Sulzbach, Germany. We own or lease numerous production and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. We also own or lease other properties, including office buildings, warehouses, pipelines, research and development facilities and sales offices. We continuously review and evaluate our facilities as a part of our strategy to optimize our business portfolio. The following table sets forth our principal production and other facilities throughout the world as of December 31, 2022. These facilities are well-maintained, in good operating condition, are suitable and adequate for their use and have sufficient capacity for our current needs and expected near-term growth.

----------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------- ------ --------- - ------ -- --
Geographic Region Engineered Materials(1) Acetyl Chain(1) Corporate
 Leased Owned Leased Owned Leased
North America 11 9 1 7 2
Europe and Africa 5 5 1 5 4
Asia-Pacific 5 8 3 — 4
South America 3 1 — — —
Total 24 23 5 12 10

______________________________
(1)Certain geographic locations may contain sites used by multiple segments.
We have also entered into strategic ventures with partners in various locations around the world. See Item 1. Business for a discussion of our investments in affiliates and their respective site locations.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
The Company is involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations incidental to the normal conduct of its business, relating to such matters as product liability, land disputes, insurance coverage disputes, contracts, employment, antitrust and competition, intellectual property, personal injury and other actions in tort, workers']:
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39

['s litigation accruals and estimates of possible loss or range of possible loss may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from legal proceedings. See Note 13 - Environmental and Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of material environmental matters and material commitments and contingencies related to legal and regulatory proceedings. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for certain risk factors relating to these legal proceedings.

29

Table of Contents
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
Information about our Executive Officers
The names, ages and biographies of our executive officers as of February 24, 2023 are as follows:

------------------- --- -------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Name Age Position
Lori J. Ryerkerk 60 Chair of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President
Scott A. Richardson 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thomas F. Kelly 57 Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials
Mark C. Murray 52 Senior Vice President, Acetyls
A. Lynne Puckett 60 Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Lori J. Ryerkerk was named our Chief Executive Officer and President and a member of our board of directors effective May 2019. In April 2020, she was named Chair of the Board. Previously, Ms. Ryerkerk was the Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing, the largest business in Shell Downstream Inc., where she led a team of 30,000 employees and contractors at refineries and chemical sites worldwide. Ms. Ryerkerk joined Shell in May 2010 as the Regional Vice President of Manufacturing in Europe and Africa, and was responsible for the operation of five Shell manufacturing facilities and five joint ventures. In October 2013, she was named Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing, Shell Downstream Inc. Before joining Shell, she was Senior Vice President, Refining, Supply and Terminals at Hess Corporation, where she was responsible for refineries, terminals and a distribution network, and supply and trading. Prior to that, Ms. Ryerkerk spent 24 years with ExxonMobil where she started her career as a process technologist at a refinery in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Throughout her tenure at ExxonMobil, she took on a variety of operational and senior leadership roles in Refining and Chemicals Manufacturing, Power Generation, and various other groups including Supply, Economics and Planning, HSSE and Public Affairs/Government Relations. Ms. Ryerkerk received a Chemical Engineering degree from Iowa State University. She serves on the board of Eaton Corporation plc, a diversified power management company, and previously served on the board of directors of Axalta Coating Systems, a leading provider of liquid and powder coatings.
Scott A. Richardson was named Chief Financial Officer for Celanese Corporation in February 2018 after serving as Senior Vice President of the Engineered Materials business since December 2015, where he had global responsibility for strategy, product and business management, planning and portfolio development, and pipeline management. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2020. Previously, Mr. Richardson served as Vice President and General Manager of the Acetyl Chain since 2011. Mr. Richardson has progressed through several Celanese roles including global commercial director, Acetyls; manager of Investor Relations; business analysis manager, Acetyls; and business line controller, Polyols and Solvents. He joined Celanese in 2005. Prior to joining Celanese, Mr. Richardson held various finance, operational and leadership roles at American Airlines. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in Accounting from Westminster College and a Master of Business Administration from Texas Christian University.
Thomas F. Kelly was named Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials in April 2020, leading the Engineered Materials business with global responsibility for product and business management, planning and portfolio development, and pipeline management. He had previously served as Vice President of Engineered Materials with Celanese since January 2019. He re-joined Celanese in January 2019 after serving with Cabot Microelectronics (now CMC Materials), a global supplier of consumable materials to semiconductor manufacturers and pipeline companies, from September 2016 to January 2019. At Cabot Microelectronics he held the roles of Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and Vice President of Corporate Development. He was previously with Celanese from August 2012 to September 2016 as Director of Raw Materials, where he led a team responsible for sourcing strategic raw materials. Before joining Celanese, he had additional roles in supply chain, sales and manufacturing management with Chemtura, Cabot Microelectronics and Rohm & Haas. Mr. Kelly also served as a board member of Nucera Solutions, a provider of specialty polymer solutions, from June 2021 through August 2022, and of Vertellus Global Holdings LLC, a supplier of specialty chemical products, from August 2019 through December 2020. He holds a Master of Business Administration from Drexel University, and Master']:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[" or beneficial holders, whose shares of record are held by banks, brokers and other financial institutions.
Dividend Policy
The amount available to us to pay cash dividends is not currently restricted by our existing senior credit facilities and our indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. Also, the general corporation law of the State of Delaware imposes restrictions on the payment of dividends by all Delaware corporations that do not currently limit our ability to pay our current and anticipated regular cash dividends. See Note 14 - Shareholders']:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[" at the beginning of this Annual Report for further discussion. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this Annual Report will increase with the passage of time. We undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise.
Risk Factors
Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report also contains a description of certain risk factors that you should consider which could significantly affect our financial results. In addition, the following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results, performance or achievements that may be expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements:
•changes in general economic, business, political and regulatory conditions in the countries or regions in which we operate;
•volatility or changes in the price and availability of raw materials and energy, particularly changes in the demand for, supply of, and market prices of ethylene, methanol, natural gas, wood pulp and fuel oil and the prices for electricity and other energy sources;
•the length and depth of product and industry business cycles particularly in the automotive, electrical, textiles, electronics and construction industries;
•the ability to pass increases in raw material prices, logistics costs and other costs on to customers or otherwise improve margins through price increases;
•the accuracy or inaccuracy of our beliefs or assumptions regarding anticipated benefits of the acquisition (the "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

["5.875% Notes"]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Contractual Obligations, Guarantees and Commitments
We calculated $2.7 billion of all future interest payments on debt and other obligations using the rate in effect on December 31, 2022 and $476 million of all future pension and other postretirement funding obligations. We have directly guaranteed various debt obligations under agreements with third parties related to certain equity affiliates. As of December 31, 2022, we have directly guaranteed $142 million and €27 million of such obligations.
We have not entered into any material off-balance sheet arrangements.
In the accompanying consolidated financial statements, see Note 10 - Current Other Liabilities for current asset retirement obligations, Note 11 - Debt for a description of the guarantees under our Senior Notes and Credit Agreement, Note 12 - Benefit Obligations for a description of the pension and other postretirement funding obligations, Note 13 - Environmental for a description of environmental obligations, Note 15 - Income Taxes for a description of uncertain tax positions, Note 16 - Leases for lease obligations and Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies for a discussion of commitments and contingencies related to legal and regulatory proceedings.
Market Risks
See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk for further information.
Business Environment
We experienced significant cost inflation, inflationary pressure and supply disruptions related to the sourcing of raw materials, energy, logistics and labor in 2022. We continue to closely monitor the impact of, and responses to, COVID-19 variants, including government imposed lockdowns and permitted reopenings in various locations around the world, and the effects of geopolitical events on demand conditions and the supply chain. Demand conditions across certain regions in the Western Hemisphere and China deteriorated, creating uncertainty, impacting consumer activity and driving customer destocking.

46

Table of Contents
Average prices of energy feedstocks, particularly natural gas, which are a significant input and source of energy for our manufacturing operations, increased in the Western Hemisphere and particularly in Europe. We also experienced cost pressure on raw material inputs. We continued pricing actions intended to offset these inflationary headwinds experienced during 2022. Moderation of acetyls pricing trended to more normalized levels by the end of 2022. We expect sourcing costs and inflationary pressures to improve in 2023.
We continue to monitor the situation in Ukraine. While the conflict has not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, we have experienced shortages in materials and increased costs for transportation, energy and raw materials as well as other supply chain challenges, particularly in Europe, due in part to the effects of the conflict, and government responses thereto, including sanctions, on the global economy. We continue to monitor these developments.
Following Russia']:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[") was enacted in the U.S. The IRA created a new book minimum tax of at least 15% of consolidated GAAP pre-tax income for corporations with three-year average annual book income in excess of $1.0 billion. The IRA also created an excise tax of 1% of the value of any stock repurchased by us after December 31, 2022.
We are subject to the regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. Examinations in material jurisdictions or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations by local taxing authorities could result in impacts to tax years open under statute or to foreign operating structures currently in place.
Our tax returns are our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.
We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of tax examinations or audits. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in future periods.
Risks Related to Our Human Capital
Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel including our management team. The inability to recruit and continue to experience an increasingly competitive hiring environment for skilled employees at our manufacturing and other sites, which in some cases has increased, or may in the future increase, the cost of retaining or hiring talented employees, particularly in technical manufacturing roles critical to our success.
In addition, we rely on our senior management team specifically, therefore our appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategies.
Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.
The cost of our pension plans is incurred over long pension obligations. The combined impact of these changes will affect the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. In recent a

26

Table of Contents
pension plan declines, we may be required to make unscheduled contributions in addition to those contributions for which we have already planned. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers councils or are subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2022, we had 13,263 employees globally. Approximately 11% of our 4,722 U.S.-based employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our our employees and their legal representatives, a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown by our employees could occur, resulting in a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.
Risks Related to Our Indebtedness
Financing the M&M Acquisition significantly increased our indebtedness and interest expense, which could adversely affect us, decrease our business flexibility, diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry.
See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our indebtedness. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations, Note 13 - Environmental and Note 19 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our other obligations.
We incurred approximately $11.0 billion of indebtedness to finance the M&M Acquisition, bringing our total outstanding indebtedness to $14.7 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $4.0 billion at December 31, 2021. Also, the amount of cash required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness, and thus the demands on our cash resources, has significantly increased as a result of the indebtedness to finance the M&M Acquisition.
We intend to allocate capital to repay and reduce our outstanding debt using cash from operations and potentially proceeds from asset sales or dispositions if we are able to do so on favorable terms. Our ability to reduce our level of indebtedness over time in line in these risk factors, and our inability to achieve these objectives could delay or alter our deleveraging plan, or could negatively impact the trading prices of our securities or our credit ratings.
Our higher level of indebtedness and other liabilities could have other important consequences, including:
•Increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including exacerbating the impact of any adverse business effects that could impact our ability to repay amounts due under existing senior credit agreements (the "]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[" with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
Our deferred compensation plan offers certain of our senior employees and directors the opportunity to defer a portion of their compensation in exchange for a future payment amount equal to their deferments plus or minus certain amounts based upon the market-performance of specified measurement funds selected by the participant. These deferred compensation obligations may be considered securities of Celanese. Participants were required to make deferral elections under the plan prior to January 1 of the year such deferrals will be withheld from their compensation. We relied on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act in making this offer to a select group of employees, fewer than 35 of which were non-accredited investors under the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 6. Reserved
This item is no longer required, as the Company has adopted the amendment to Item 301 of Regulation S-K contained in SEC Release No. 33-10890, which became effective on February 10, 2021.

33

Table of Contents
Item 7. Management']:
Item 6. [Reserved] 43