================================================================================
CIK: 0000885725
Company Name: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP
Filing Date: 2023-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 12:22:30
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Restricted Cash Equivalents Cash and Cash EquivalentsWe record Cash and cash equivalents in our consolidated balance sheets at cost, which approximates fair value. Our policy is to invest excess cash in short-term marketable securities earning a market rate of interest without assuming undue risk of loss of principal amounts invested and we limit our direct exposure to securities in any one industry or issuer. We consider cash equivalents to be all short-term marketable securities with remaining days to maturity of 90 days or less from the purchase date that can be readily converted to cash.Restricted Cash Amounts included in restricted cash represent cash on hand required to be set aside by a contractual agreement related to receivable factoring arrangements and deferred compensation plans and are included in Other current assets within our consolidated balance sheets. Generally, the restrictions related to the factoring arrangements lapse at the time we remit the customer payments collected by us for servicing previously sold customer receivables to the purchaser. Restrictions for deferred compensation lapse when amounts are paid to the employee. Restricted Cash EquivalentsRestricted cash equivalents primarily represent amounts paid into various qualified settlement funds related to our ongoing transvaginal surgical mesh litigation and current amounts related to our non-qualified pension plan and are included in Other current assets within our consolidated balance sheets. The restrictions related to the various qualified settlement funds will lapse as we approve amounts payable to claimants, at which time we no longer have rights to a return of the amounts paid into the various qualified settlement funds. Restricted cash equivalents are included in Other long-term assets within our consolidated balance sheets are related to deferred compensation plans. Concentrations of Credit RiskFinancial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and accounts and notes receivable. Our investment policy limits exposure to concentrations of credit risk and changes in market conditions. Counterparties to financial instruments expose us to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance. We transact our financial instruments with a diversified group of major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings and actively monitor their credit ratings and our outstanding positions to limit our credit exposure. In the normal course, our payment terms with customers, including distributors, hospitals, healthcare agencies, clinics, doctors' offices and other private and governmental institutions, are typically 30 days in the U.S. but may be longer in international markets and generally do not require collateral.We record credit loss reserves to Allowance for credit losses when we establish Trade accounts receivable if credit losses are expected over the asset's contractual life. We base our estimates of credit loss reserves on historical experience and adjust, as necessary, to reflect current conditions using reasonable and supportable forecasts not already reflected in the historical loss information. We utilize an accounts receivable aging approach to determine the reserve to record at accounts receivable commencement for certain customers, applying country or region-specific factors. In performing the assessment of outstanding accounts receivable, regardless of country or region, we may consider significant factors relevant to collectability, including those specific to a customer such as bankruptcy, lengthy average payment cycles and type of account.We write-off amounts determined to be uncollectible against this reserve. We are not dependent on any single institution, and no single customer accounted for more than ten percent of our net sales in 2022, 2021 and 2020; however, large group purchasing organizations, hospital networks, international distributors and dealers and other buying groups have become increasingly important to our business and represent a substantial portion of our net sales. We closely monitor outstanding receivables for potential collection risks, including those that may arise from economic conditions, in both the U.S. and international economies. Our sales to government-owned or supported customers, particularly in southern Europe, are subject to an increased number of days outstanding prior to payment relative to other countries. Further, the ongoing site-of-service trend of shifting procedure volumes in the U.S. toward non-hospital settings, particularly ambulatory surgery centers and office-based labs, continues. Many of these customers are smaller than those we have historically done business with and may have more limited liquidity. We have adjusted our estimates of credit loss reserves for these customers, regions and conditions, as appropriate. We believe our Allowance for credit losses is adequate as of December 31, 2022; however, if significant changes were to occur in the payment practices of government customers, or if there is an increase in bankruptcies among our ambulatory surgery center or office-based customers, we may not be able to collect on receivables due to us from these customers, and our write-offs of uncollectible accounts may increase. Revenue Recognition We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force. In certain international markets, we sell our products through independent distributors or dealers. We consider revenue to be earned when all of the following criteria are met in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers:•We have a contract with a customer that creates enforceable rights and obligations,•Promised products or services are identified,•The transaction price, or the amount we expect to receive, is determinable and•We have transferred control of the promised items to the customer.Transfer of control is evidenced upon passage of title and risk of loss to the customer unless we are required to provide additional services. We treat shipping and handling costs performed after a customer obtains control of the good as a fulfillment cost and record these costs as a selling expense when incurred. We recognize revenue from consignment arrangements based on product usage, or implant, which indicates that the sale is complete. We recognize a receivable at the point in time we have an unconditional right to payment. Payment terms are typically 30 days in the U.S. but may be longer in international markets.Deferred RevenueWe record a contract liability, or deferred revenue, when we have an obligation to provide a product or service to the customer and payment is received or due in advance of our performance. When we sell a device with a future service obligation, we defer revenue on the unfulfilled performance obligation and recognize this revenue over the related service period. Many of our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) product offerings combine the sale of a device with our LATITUDE™ Patient Management System, which represents a future service obligation. Generally, we do not have observable evidence of the standalone selling price related to our future service obligations; therefore, we estimate the selling price using an expected cost plus a margin approach. We allocate the transaction price using the relative standalone selling price method. The use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of revenue deferral.Contract liabilities are classified within Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Our contractual liabilities are primarily composed of deferred revenue related to the LATITUDE Patient Management System. Revenue is recognized over the average service period which is based on device and patient longevity. Our contractual liabilities also include deferred revenue related to the LUX-Dx™ Insertable Cardiac Monitor (ICM) system, also within our CRM business, for which revenue is recognized over the average service period based on device longevity and usage. We have elected not to disclose the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations when the original expected contract duration is one year or less. In addition, we have not identified material unfulfilled performance obligations for which revenue is not currently deferred.Variable ConsiderationWe generally allow our customers to return defective, damaged and, in certain cases, expired products for credit. We base our estimate for sales returns upon historical trends and record the amount as a reduction to revenue when we sell the initial product. In addition, we may allow customers to return previously purchased products for next-generation product offerings. For these transactions, we defer recognition of revenue on the sale of the earlier generation product based upon an estimate of the amount of product to be returned when the next-generation products are shipped to the customer. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to sales returns and could cause actual returns to differ from these estimates.We also offer sales rebates and discounts to certain customers. We treat sales rebates and discounts as a reduction of revenue and classify the corresponding liability as current. We estimate rebates for products where there is sufficient historical information available to predict the volume of expected future rebates. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the expected rebates, we record a liability for the maximum rebate percentage offered. We have entered certain agreements with group purchasing organizations to sell our products to participating hospitals at negotiated prices. We recognize revenue from these agreements following the same revenue recognition criteria discussed above.Post-Implant ServicesWe provide non-contractual services to customers, where necessary, to ensure the safe and effective use of certain implanted devices. Because the revenue related to the immaterial services is recognized before they are delivered, we forward accrue the costs to provide these services at the time the devices are sold. We record these costs to Selling, general and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the amount of time spent by our representatives performing these services and their compensation throughout the device life to determine the service cost. Changes to our business practice or the use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of accrued cost.Warranty Obligations We offer warranties on certain of our product offerings. The majority of our warranty liability relates to implantable devices offered by our CRM business, which include implantable defibrillator and pacemaker systems. These products come with a standard limited warranty covering the replacement of these devices. We offer a full warranty for a portion of the period post-implant and a partial warranty for a period of time thereafter. We estimate the costs that we may incur under our warranty programs based on the number of units sold, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and cost per claim and record a liability equal to these estimated costs as cost of products sold at the time the product sale occurs. We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities on a quarterly basis and adjust these amounts as necessary.InventoriesWe state inventories at the lower of first-in, first-out cost or net realizable value. We utilize a standard costing system, capitalizing variances between estimated and actual production costs during periods of normal production, and amortize to Cost of products sold over inventory turns. We expense manufacturing variances during periods of abnormal production, or less than 75 percent of manufacturing capacity. During 2020, we recorded $149 million of abnormal manufacturing variances attributable to lower production levels resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and lower than forecasted demand for our products. We did not record any abnormal production variances during the years ended December 31, 2022 or 2021.We base our provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory primarily on our estimates of forecasted net sales. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory in the future. Further, the industry in which we participate is characterized by rapid product development and frequent new product introductions. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to excess, expired and obsolete inventory. Property, Plant and EquipmentWe state property, plant, equipment and leasehold improvements at historical cost. We charge expenditures for maintenance and repairs to expense and capitalize additions and improvements that extend the life of the underlying asset. We provide for depreciation using the straight-line method at rates that approximate the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings over a maximum life of 40 years; building improvements over the remaining useful life of the building structure; equipment, furniture and fixtures over a three to seven year life; and leasehold improvements over the shorter of the useful life of the improvement or the term of the related lease.Valuation of Business Combinations We allocate the amounts we pay for each acquisition to the assets we acquire and liabilities we assume based on their fair values at the date of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets and in-process research and development (IPR&D), which either arise from a contractual or legal right or are separable from goodwill. We base the fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination, including IPR&D, on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate to goodwill any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Transaction costs associated with these acquisitions are expensed as incurred through Selling, general and administrative expenses.In cases where we acquire a company in which we previously held an equity stake, we attribute a portion of the purchase price to the previously-held equity interest, which is implied based on the total purchase consideration allocable to each of the shareholders, including Boston Scientific, according to priority of equity interests. We record a gain or loss in Other, net equal to the difference between the implied fair value of our prior ownership and the book value immediately prior to the acquisition.Where an acquisition involves a contingent consideration arrangement, we recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent payments we expect to make as of the acquisition date. We re-measure this liability each reporting period and record changes in the fair value through Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) on our consolidated statements of operations. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability can result from changes in discount rates, periods, timing and amount of projected revenue or timing or likelihood of achieving regulatory, revenue or commercialization-based milestones. Payment of additional consideration is generally contingent on the acquired company reaching certain performance milestones after the acquisition date, including attaining specified revenue levels, achieving product development targets and/or obtaining regulatory approvals for products in development at the date of the acquisition.Indefinite-lived Intangibles and IPR&D Our indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are not subject to amortization, include acquired balloon and other technology, which are foundational to our ongoing operations, as well as IPR&D intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Our IPR&D represents intangible assets that are used in research and development activities but have not yet reached technological feasibility, regardless of whether they have alternative future use. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility or completion of these projects is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products in an applicable geographic region. We classify IPR&D as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Upon completion of the associated research and development efforts, we will determine the useful life of the technology and begin amortizing the assets to reflect their use over their remaining lives. Upon permanent abandonment, we write-off the remaining carrying amount of the associated IPR&D intangible asset. We test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually during the third quarter for impairment and reassess their classification as indefinite-lived assets. In addition, we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets for classification and impairment more frequently if impairment indicators exist. We assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired, we then determine the fair value of the intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying value in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, we write the carrying value down to the fair value.We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our IPR&D. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected market growth rates, expected trends in technology and expected levels of market share. In arriving at the value of the in-process projects, we consider, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of other acquired assets, the expected regulatory path and introduction dates by region and the estimated useful life of the technology. See Note C – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for more information related to indefinite-lived intangibles, including IPR&D.For asset purchases outside of business combinations, we expense any purchased research and development assets as of the acquisition date. Amortization and Impairment of Intangible Assets We record definite-lived intangible assets at historical cost and amortize them over their estimated useful lives. We use a straight-line method of amortization, unless a method that better reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed or otherwise used up can be reliably determined. The approximate useful lives for amortization of our intangible assets are as follows: patents and licenses, two to 20 years; amortizable technology-related and customer relationships, five to 25 years; other intangible assets, various. In addition, we classify internal use software as an intangible asset within our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and amortize over a two to 15 year useful life. Due to the operational nature of these assets, we record the amortization of our internal use software within Cost of products sold; Selling, general and administrative expenses and Research and development expenses, as appropriate within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations, and include in Amortization expense only that associated with intangible assets acquired in a business combination or asset acquisition, as well as internally-developed patents.We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product recall or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If we determine it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired based on our qualitative assessment of impairment indicators, we test the intangible asset for recoverability. For purposes of the recoverability test, we group our amortizable intangible assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows if the intangible asset does not generate cash flows independent of other assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of the intangible asset or asset group exceeds the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the intangible asset or asset group, we will write the carrying value down to fair value in the period impairment is identified. We calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future cash flows we expect to generate from the asset. In determining our estimated future cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we use estimates and assumptions about future revenue contributions, cost structures and remaining useful lives of the asset or asset group. See Note C – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for more information related to impairments of intangible assets.For patents developed internally, we capitalize costs incurred to obtain patents, including attorney fees, registration fees, consulting fees and other expenditures directly related to securing the patent. Goodwill ValuationWe allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination to goodwill. We test our goodwill balances in the second quarter of each year as of April 1 for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest an impairment may exist.We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. For our 2022 annual impairment assessment, following the reorganization of our operational structure in the first quarter of 2022, we identified the following reporting units for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment test: Interventional Cardiology, Rhythm Management, Peripheral Interventions, Endoscopy, Urology and Neuromodulation. Based on the criteria prescribed in FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we aggregated the Interventional Cardiology Therapies and Watchman components of our Cardiology operating segment into a single Interventional Cardiology reporting unit and aggregated the Cardiac Rhythm Management and Electrophysiology components into a single Rhythm Management reporting unit. Investments in Publicly Traded and Privately-Held Entities For publicly-held equity securities for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, we measure at fair value with changes in fair value recognized currently in Other, net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. For privately-held equity securities for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, we apply the measurement alternative approach and measure these investments at cost minus impairment, if any, adjusted to fair value for any observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. We account for investments in entities for which we have the ability to exercise significant influence under the equity method if we hold 50 percent or less of the voting stock and the entity is not a VIE in which we are the primary beneficiary in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures. We record these investments initially at cost and adjust the carrying amount to reflect our share of the earnings or losses of the investee, including all adjustments similar to those made in preparing consolidated financial statements. Lastly, we have notes receivable from certain companies that we account for in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments - Debt and Equity Securities. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for additional details on our investment balances.Each reporting period, we evaluate our investments to determine if there are any events or circumstances that are likely to have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Examples of such impairment indicators include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in earnings performance, recent financing rounds at reduced valuations, a significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic or technological environment of an investee or a significant doubt about an investee’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we identify an impairment indicator, we will estimate the fair value of the investment and compare it to its carrying value. Our estimation of fair value considers financial information related to the investee available to us, including valuations based on recent third-party equity investments in the investee. For our investments for which we apply the measurement alternative, if the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value, the investment is impaired and we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between an investment’s carrying value and its fair value. For our equity method investments, if we determine an impairment is other-than-temporary, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between an investment’s carrying value and its fair value. We deem an impairment to be other-than-temporary unless available evidence indicates that the valuation is more likely than not to recover up to the carrying value of the investment in a reasonable period of time, and we have both the ability and intent to hold the investment for at least the period of time needed to recover the value. Net gains and losses and impairments associated with our investment portfolio are included within Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. Income TaxesWe utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse. We reduce our deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. We consider relevant evidence, both positive and negative, to determine the need for a valuation allowance. Information evaluated includes our financial position and results of operations for the current and preceding years, the availability of deferred tax liabilities and tax carrybacks, as well as estimates of the impact of future taxable income and available prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies. We recognize interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense. As part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), we are subject to a territorial tax system in which we are required to establish an accounting policy in providing for tax on Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. We have elected to treat the impact of GILTI as a period cost and report it as part of continuing operations. See Note H – Income Taxes for further information and discussion of our income tax provision and balances including a discussion of the impacts of the TCJA.Legal and Product Liability Costs We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings, including intellectual property, breach of contract, securities and product liability litigation. In some cases, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures or impact our ability to sell our products. We are also the subject of certain governmental investigations, which could result in substantial fines, penalties and administrative remedies. We maintain an insurance policy providing limited coverage against securities claims, and we are substantially self-insured with respect to product liability claims and fully self-insured with respect to intellectual property infringement claims. We accrue anticipated costs of settlement, damages, losses for product liability claims and, under certain conditions, costs of defense, based on historical experience or to the extent specific losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we expense these costs as incurred. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, we accrue the minimum amount of the range. We analyze litigation settlements to identify each element of the arrangement. We allocate arrangement consideration to patent licenses received based on estimates of fair value and capitalize these amounts as assets if the license will provide an ongoing future benefit. We record certain legal and product liability charges, credits and costs of defense, which we consider to be unusual or infrequent and significant as Litigation-related charges (credits) in our consolidated statements of operations; all other legal and product liability charges, credits and costs are recorded within Selling, general and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of operations. See Note I – Commitments and Contingencies for discussion of our individual material legal proceedings.Costs Associated with Exit Activities We record employee termination costs in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 712, Compensation - Nonretirement and Postemployment Benefits, if we pay the benefits as part of an ongoing benefit arrangement, which includes benefits provided as part of our established severance policies or that we provide in accordance with international statutory requirements. We accrue employee termination costs associated with an ongoing benefit arrangement if the obligation is attributable to prior services rendered, the rights to the benefits have vested, the payment is probable and we can reasonably estimate the liability. We account for involuntary employee termination benefits that represent a one-time benefit in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations. We record such costs into expense over the employee’s future service period, if any. Other costs associated with exit activities may include contract termination costs and consulting fees, which are expensed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 420 and are included within Restructuring net charges (credits) in our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, costs directly related to our active restructuring initiatives, including program management costs, accelerated depreciation, fixed asset write-offs and costs to transfer product lines among facilities are included within Costs of products sold, Selling, general and administrative expenses and Research and development expenses within our consolidated statements of operations. Impairment of right of use lease assets and lease termination costs directly related to our active restructuring initiatives are expensed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 842 and included within Costs of products sold or Selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. Translation of Foreign CurrencyWe translate all assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries from the functional currency, which is generally the local currency, into U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rate. We show the net effect of these translation adjustments within our consolidated financial statements as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. We translate revenues and expenses at the average exchange rates in effect during the year. For any significant foreign subsidiaries located in highly inflationary economies, we re-measure their financial statements as if the functional currency were the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included within Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations, net of losses and gains from any related derivative financial instruments. Financial Instruments We recognize all derivative financial instruments in our consolidated financial statements at fair value in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and we present assets and liabilities associated with our derivative financial instruments on a gross basis in our financial statements. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, for those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, the hedging instrument must be designated, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it qualifies for, and has been designated as part of a hedging relationship, as well as on the type of hedging relationship. Our derivative instruments do not subject our earnings to material risk, as gains and losses on these derivatives generally offset gains and losses on the item being hedged, and we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Refer to Note D – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements for more information on our hedging instruments.Research and DevelopmentWe expense research and development (R&D) costs, including new product development programs, regulatory compliance and clinical research as incurred. Refer to Indefinite-lived Intangibles and IPR&D above for our policy regarding R&D projects acquired in connection with our business combinations and asset purchases.

X
---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_AccountingPoliciesAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for all significant accounting policies of the reporting entity. + ReferencesReference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123372394&loc=d3e18726-107790Reference 2: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2122369 + Details Name: us-gaap_SignificantAccountingPoliciesTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
67
R11.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Acquisitions and Strategic Investments Aug. 06, 2021
--------------------------------------------- ------------- -----
Business Combinations [Abstract]
ACQUISITIONS AND STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS
(in millions)
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 1,463
 $ 1,463

The final purchase price allocation was comprised of the following components:

(in millions)
----------------------------- ----- ---
Goodwill $ 988
Amortizable intangible assets 657
Other assets acquired 112
Liabilities assumed (287)
Net deferred tax liabilities (7)
 $ 1,463

Goodwill was primarily established due to synergies expected to be gained from leveraging our existing operations, as well as revenue and cash flow projections associated with future technologies.

We allocated a portion of the purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:

Amount Assigned(in millions) Weighted Average Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- ---
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 622 11 11%
Other intangible assets 36 11 11%
 $ 657

Our technology-related intangible assets consist of technical processes, intellectual property and institutional understanding with respect to products and processes that we intend to leverage in future products or processes and will carry forward from one product generation to the next. We used the multi-period excess earnings method, a form of the income approach, to derive the fair value of the technology-related intangible assets and are amortizing them on a straight-line basis over their assigned estimated useful lives.

2021 Acquisitions

On March 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of Preventice Solutions, Inc. (Preventice), a privately-held company with a full portfolio of mobile cardiac health solutions and services, ranging from ambulatory cardiac monitors, to cardiac event monitors and mobile cardiac telemetry. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $925 million and up to an additional $300 million in a potential commercial milestone payment. We had been an investor in Preventice since 2015 and held an equity stake of approximately 22 percent immediately prior to the acquisition date. We remeasured the fair value of our previously-held investment based on the allocation of the purchase price according to priority of equity interests, which resulted in a $196 million gain recognized within Other, net. The transaction price for the remaining stake consisted of an upfront cash payment of $706 million, net of cash acquired, and an additional revenue-based milestone payment of $216 million made during the second quarter of 2022. The Preventice business is being managed by our Cardiology division.
On August 6, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the remaining shares of Farapulse, Inc. (Farapulse), a privately-held company that developed a non-thermal ablation system for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) and other cardiac arrhythmias. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $450 million, up to $125 million upon achievement of certain clinical and regulatory milestones and additional revenue-based payments over the next three years. We had been an investor in Farapulse since 2014 and held an equity stake of approximately 27 percent immediately prior to the acquisition date. We remeasured the fair value of our previously-held investment based on the allocation of the purchase price according to priority of equity interests which resulted in a $222 million gain recognized within Other, net. The transaction price for the remaining stake consisted of an upfront cash payment of $268 million, net of cash acquired, up to $92 million in additional clinical and regulatory milestone payments, as well as future revenue-based payments. We have made combined milestone and revenue based payments of $114 million to date. The Farapulse business is being integrated into our Cardiology division.

On September 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the global surgical business of Lumenis LTD. (Lumenis), a privately-held company that has developed and commercialized energy-based medical solutions, including innovative laser systems, fibers and accessories used for urology and otolaryngology procedures. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $1.032 billion, net of cash acquired. The Lumenis business is being integrated into our Urology division.

On November 8, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the remaining shares of Devoro Medical, Inc. (Devoro Medical), a privately-held company which has developed the WOLF Thrombectomy® Platform, a non-console and lytic-free platform designed to rapidly capture and extract blood clots in arterial, venous and pulmonary embolism procedures. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $320 million and up to $80 million upon achievement of certain clinical and regulatory milestones. We had been an investor in Devoro Medical since 2019 and held an equity stake of approximately 16 percent. We remeasured the fair value of our previously held investment based on the allocation of the purchase price according to priority of equity interests which resulted in a $57 million gain recognized within Other, net. The transaction price for the remaining stake consisted of an upfront cash payment of $251 million, net of cash acquired, and up to approximately $67 million in future milestone payments. The Devoro Medical business is being integrated into our Peripheral Interventions division.

Purchase Price Allocation

The final purchase price for the acquisitions completed during 2021 were comprised of the components presented below, which represents the determination of the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 805, Business Combinations.

(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
--------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 706 $ 1,032 $ 519 $ 2,258
Fair value of contingent consideration 221 — 218 440
Fair value of prior interest 269 — 287 556
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

The final purchase price allocation for these acquisitions was comprised of the following components:

(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
---------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Goodwill $ 926 $ 534 $ 594 $ 2,053
Amortizable intangible assets 237 423 465 1,125
Indefinite-lived intangible assets — 69 43 112
Other assets acquired 65 297 9 372
Liabilities assumed (32) (282) (11) (325)
Net deferred tax liabilities — (9) (75) (84)
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

Goodwill was primarily established due to synergies expected to be gained from leveraging our existing operations, as well as revenue and cash flow projections associated with future technologies.
In 2022, we recorded certain measurement period adjustments primarily related to our prior year acquisition of the surgical business of Lumenis. We recorded an accrued income tax liability within Other non-current liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet of $183 million related to uncertain tax positions assumed in connection with the acquisition. We expect to be indemnified for the majority of such tax obligations and we recognized a corresponding indemnification asset of $177 million within Other non-current assets within our consolidated balance sheets. Interest and penalties accrued on the tax liability are being recorded within Income tax expense (benefit) and corresponding adjustments to the indemnification asset are being recorded in Other, net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The outcome of these matters is subject to uncertainty and ultimately, the amount of tax due and the related indemnification reimbursement we receive will be dependent on the outcome of tax return examinations by relevant authorities. Refer to Note Note G – Supplemental Balance Sheet Information for further details regarding our indemnification asset.

We allocated a portion of the purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:

Amount Assigned(in millions) Weighted Average Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- --- - ---
Preventice:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 215 9 10%
Other intangible assets 22 8 10%
 $ 237
Lumenis:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 388 12 11%
Other intangible assets 35 11 11%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
IPR&D 69 N/A 12%
 $ 492
All Other:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 465 12 16% - 17%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
IPR&D 43 N/A 17%
 $ 508

2021 Divestiture

On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business to Stark International Lux S.A.R.L., and SERB SAS, affiliates of SERB, a European specialty pharmaceutical group, for a purchase price of approximately $800 million, subject to certain adjustments including cash on hand at the closing of the transaction. The agreement included the transfer of five facilities and approximately 280 employees globally.

In 2020, we recorded Goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business and classified the remaining assets and liabilities as held for sale as of December 31, 2020.
Contingent Consideration

Changes in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability were as follows:
(in millions)
---------------------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 196
Amount recorded related to current year acquisitions 440
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) (136)
Contingent consideration payments (15)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 486
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) 35
Contingent consideration payments (371)
Balance as of December 31, 2022 $ 149

The payments made during 2022 were primarily related to our 2021 acquisitions of Farapulse and Preventice. As of December 31, 2022, the maximum amount of future contingent consideration (undiscounted) that we could be required to pay associated with our completed acquisitions was approximately $417 million. The net expense of $35 million recorded in 2022 related to an increase in expected revenue-based payments as a result of over-achievement of net sales performance, primarily related to Farapulse. The net benefit of $136 million recorded in 2021 related to a reduction in the contingent consideration liability for certain prior acquisitions for which we reduced the probability of achievement of associated revenue and/or regulatory milestones upon which payment is conditioned, or, for milestones that would not be achieved due to management's discontinuation of the associated R&D program. Refer to Note C – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further details.

The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our contingent consideration liability that we expect to be required to settle include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Contingent Consideration Liability Fair Value as of December 31, 2022 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- -- --- --
R&D, Regulatory and Commercialization-based Milestones $13 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 1% - 2% 2%
Probability of Payment 10% - 25% 22%
Projected Year of Payment 2023 - 2025 2024
Revenue-based Payments $136 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 6 % - 14% 7%
Probability of Payment 100% 100%
Projected Year of Payment 2023 - 2024 2023

(1)    Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the contingent consideration liability. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.

Projected contingent payment amounts related to our R&D, regulatory and commercialization-based and revenue-based milestones are discounted back to the current period, primarily using a discounted cash flow model. Significant increases or decreases in projected revenues, probabilities of payment, discount rates or the time until payment is made would have resulted in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement as of December 31, 2022.
Strategic Investments

The aggregate carrying amount of our strategic investments was comprised of the following:

As of December 31,
-------------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ---
(in millions) 2022 2021
Equity method investments $ 188 $ 259
Measurement alternative investments(1) 216 142
Publicly-held securities(2) 2 10
Notes receivable 1 —
 $ 407 $ 412

(1)    Measurement alternative investments are privately-held equity securities or agreements for future equity without readily determinable fair values that are measured at cost less impairment, if any, adjusted to fair value for any observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, recognized in Other, net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(2)    Publicly-held equity securities are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Other, net within our consolidated statements of operations.

These investments are classified as Other long-term assets within our consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our accounting policies.In 2021, we recorded a $178 million loss on our investment in Pulmonx Corporation presented in Other, net associated with the remeasurement of our investment during the period to fair value based on observable market prices, as well as the disposition of our remaining ownership. As of December 31, 2022, the cost of our aggregated equity method investments exceeded our share of the underlying equity in net assets by $232 million, which represents amortizable intangible assets, IPR&D, goodwill and deferred tax liabilities.

X
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for a business combination (or series of individually immaterial business combinations) completed during the period, including background, timing, and recognized assets and liabilities. The disclosure may include leverage buyout transactions (as applicable). + ReferencesReference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 805 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2303972 + Details Name: us-gaap_BusinessCombinationDisclosureTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_BusinessCombinationsAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
68
R12.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 12 Months Ended
---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------------------------- - ------ - -------
Dec. 31, 2022
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Disclosure [Abstract]
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 As of December 31, 2022 As of December 31, 2021
(in millions) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs
Technology-related $ 12,397 $ (7,378) $ 11,957 $ (6,754)
Patents 486 (394) 494 (398)
Other intangible assets 1,960 (1,400) 1,900 (1,325)
Amortizable intangible assets $ 14,843 $ (9,173) $ 14,351 $ (8,476)
Goodwill $ 22,820 $ (9,900) $ 21,888 $ (9,900)
IPR&D 112 126
Technology-related 120 120
Indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 232 $ 246

The increase in our balance of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets is related primarily to our acquisition of Baylis Medical completed in the first quarter of 2022.

Intangible asset impairment charges were $132 million in 2022, $370 million in 2021 and $460 million in 2020. The impairment charges recorded in 2022 were primarily associated with amortizable technology-related intangible assets that were initially established following our acquisition of Vertiflex, Inc., which is now part of our Neuromodulation business, resulting from lower revenue projections due to reimbursement challenges. The impairment charges recorded in 2021 were primarily associated with amortizable technology-related intangible assets that were initially established following our acquisition of VENITI, Inc., which is now part of our Peripheral Interventions business. These charges resulted from management’s decision
to discontinue commercialization of the VICI VENOUS STENT™ System following a voluntary recall, due to cost to remediate and time to return to market. In addition, during 2021, we impaired the IPR&D assets established in connection with our acquisition of Millipede, Inc. which is now part of our Cardiology business. The charges resulted from the cancellation of the mitral valve IPR&D program due to the incremental time and cost required to complete the program and bring the technology to market. The impairment charges recorded in 2020 were primarily associated with intangible assets established in connection with our acquisitions of Sadra Medical, Inc., Apama Medical Inc. and nVision Medical Corporation (nVision). Each of these impairment charges were recorded following management’s decision to cancel the programs due to the length of time, and remaining cost to complete and commercialize the technology, the cost to remediate quality issues or, specific to nVision, our understanding of the clinical evidence necessary to commercialize the technology.

The following represents our goodwill balance by reportable segment.

(in millions) MedSurg Cardiovascular Total
----------------------------------------------- ------- -------------- ----- ----- - ------
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 3,707 $ 6,243 $ 9,951
Goodwill acquired 544 1,520 2,064
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (5) (21) (27)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 4,246 $ 7,741 $ 11,988
Goodwill acquired — 1,030 1,030
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (10) (88) (98)
Balance as of December 31, 2022 $ 4,237 $ 8,684 $ 12,920

In the first quarter of 2022, we reorganized our operational structure in order to strengthen our category leadership in the markets we serve and, in particular, benefit our Cardiology customers and patients. Following the reorganization, we have aggregated our core businesses into two reportable segments: MedSurg and Cardiovascular, each of which generates revenues from the sale of medical devices. We have revised prior periods to conform to the current year presentation. There was no impact to the reporting units identified for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment testing.

In the second quarter of 2022, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test utilizing both the qualitative and quantitative approach described in FASB ASC Topic 350. The qualitative approach was used for testing reporting units where fair value has historically exceeded carrying value by greater than 100 percent, and all other reporting units were tested using the quantitative approach. We determined that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and concluded that goodwill was not impaired or at risk of impairment.

Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of our goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing.

Estimated Amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years based upon our amortizable intangible asset portfolio, consisting of intangible assets acquired in a business combination or asset acquisition, as well as internally developed patents, as of December 31, 2022 is as follows (in millions):

Fiscal Year
----------- --- ---
 2023 $ 781
 2024 741
 2025 683
 2026 665
 2027 625
These estimates do not include amortization expense associated with future acquisitions that have been announced but not yet completed as of December 31, 2022.

X
---------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsDisclosureAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for goodwill and intangible assets. + ReferencesReference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 350 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2144416 + Details Name: us-gaap_GoodwillAndIntangibleAssetsDisclosureTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
69
R13.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements 12 Months Ended
---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ----- -----
Dec. 31, 2022
Fair Value Disclosures [Abstract]
HEDGING ACTIVITIES AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
(in millions) FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation As of December 31,
 2022 2021
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge $ 2,725 $ 3,996
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge 365 493
Foreign currency-denominated debt(1) Net investment hedge 997 997
Forward currency contracts Non-designated 4,235 3,892
Total Notional Outstanding $ 8,321 $ 9,378

(1)    Foreign currency-denominated debt is the €900 million debt principal designated as a net investment hedge.

The remaining time to maturity as of December 31, 2022 is within 48 months for all forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges and generally less than one year for all non-designated forward currency contracts. The forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges generally mature within the next year. The euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge has a contractual maturity of December 1, 2027.
The following presents the effect of our derivative and nonderivative instruments designated as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Refer to Note O – Changes in Other Comprehensive Income for the total amounts relating to derivative and nonderivative instruments presented within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss).

Effect of Hedging Relationships on Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- - ----- - -- - -----
Amount Recognized in OCI on Hedges Consolidated Statements of Operations(1) Amount Reclassified from AOCI into Earnings
(in millions) Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) Tax Benefit (Expense) Gain (Loss) Net of Tax Location of Amount Reclassified and Total Amount of Line Item Pre-Tax (Gain) Loss Tax (Benefit) Expense (Gain) Loss Net of Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2022
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 276 $ (62) $ 214 Cost of products sold $ 3,956 $ (209) $ 47 $ (162)
Net investment hedges(2) 41 (10) 32 Interest expense 470 (10) 2 (8)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) 61 (14) 47 Other, net 38 — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 470 16 (4) 13
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 268 $ (60) $ 208 Cost of products sold $ 3,711 $ (54) $ 12 $ (42)
Net investment hedges(2) 56 (13) 43 Interest expense 341 (13) 3 (10)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) 82 (19) 64 Other, net (218) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 341 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ (99) $ 22 $ (77) Cost of products sold $ 3,465 $ (83) $ 19 $ (64)
Net investment hedges(2) (37) 8 (29) Interest expense 361 (24) 5 (19)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (89) 21 (68) Other, net (362) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 361 5 (1) 4

(1)    In all periods presented in the table above, the pre-tax (gain) loss amounts reclassified from AOCI to earnings represent the effect of the hedging relationships on earnings.
(2)    For our outstanding forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges, the net gain or loss reclassified from AOCI to earnings as a reduction of Interest expense represents the straight-line amortization of the excluded component as calculated at the date of designation. This initial value of the excluded component has been excluded from the assessment of effectiveness in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815. In the current and prior periods, we did not recognize any gains or losses on the components included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness in earnings.
(3)    For our outstanding euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge, the change in fair value attributable to changes in the spot rate is recorded in the CTA component of OCI. No amounts were reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings.
As of December 31, 2022, pre-tax net gains or losses for our derivative instruments designated, or previously designated, as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 that may be reclassified from AOCI to earnings within the next twelve months are presented below (in millions):

Designated Hedging Instrument FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Amount of Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) that may be Reclassified to Earnings
---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------ ---
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge Cost of products sold $ 223
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge Interest expense 10
Interest rate derivative contracts Cash flow hedge Interest expense (3)

Net gains and losses on currency hedge contracts not designated as hedging instruments offset by net gains and losses from currency transaction exposures are presented below:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- --
 2022 2021 2020
Net gain (loss) on currency hedge contracts Other, net $ (53) $ (16) $ 73
Net gain (loss) on currency transaction exposures Other, net 21 (12) (105)
Net currency exchange gain (loss) $ (31) $ (27) $ (32)

Fair Value Measurements

FASB ASC Topic 815 requires all derivative and nonderivative instruments to be recognized at their fair values as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. We determine the fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments using the framework prescribed by FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, and considering the estimated amount we would receive or pay to transfer these instruments at the reporting date with respect to current currency exchange rates, interest rates, the creditworthiness of the counterparty for unrealized gain positions and our own creditworthiness for unrealized loss positions. In certain instances, we may utilize financial models to measure fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments. In doing so, we use inputs that include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, other observable inputs for the asset or liability and inputs derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means. The following are the balances of our derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets(1) As of December 31,
---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ----- ---
 2022 2021
Derivative and Nonderivative Assets:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets $ 196 $ 183
Forward currency contracts Other long-term assets 149 169
 345 352
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets 36 42
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Assets $ 381 $ 394
Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities $ — $ 32
Forward currency contracts Other long-term liabilities 1 6
Foreign currency-denominated debt(2) Other long-term liabilities 952 1,011
 953 1,049
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities 52 22
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities $ 1,005 $ 1,071

(1)We classify derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities as current when the settlement date of the contract is one year or less.
(2)Foreign currency-denominated debt is the €900 million debt principal designated as a net investment hedge. A portion of this notional is subject to de-designation and re-designation based on changes in the underlying hedged item.

Recurring Fair Value Measurements
On a recurring basis, we measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value based upon quoted market prices. Where quoted market prices or other observable inputs are not available, we apply valuation techniques to estimate fair value. FASB ASC Topic 820 establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The category of a financial asset or a financial liability within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the measurement of fair value. The three levels of the hierarchy are defined as follows:
•Level 1 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are other observable inputs, including quoted market prices for similar assets or liabilities and market-corroborated inputs.
•Level 3 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable inputs based on management’s best estimate of inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date, including assumptions about risk.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis consist of the following:

As of
------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- ------- ----- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
(in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Money market funds and time deposits $ 673 $ — $ — $ 673 $ 1,632 $ — $ — $ 1,632
Publicly-held securities 2 — — 2 10 — — 10
Hedging instruments — 381 — 381 — 394 — 394
Licensing arrangements — — 127 127 — — 246 246
 $ 674 $ 381 $ 127 $ 1,182 $ 1,642 $ 394 $ 246 $ 2,282
Liabilities
Hedging instruments $ — $ 1,005 $ — $ 1,005 $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,071
Contingent consideration liability — — 149 149 — — 486 486
Licensing arrangements — — 159 159 — — 281 281
 $ — $ 1,005 $ 308 $ 1,313 $ — $ 1,071 $ 767 $ 1,838

Our investments in money market funds and time deposits are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices. These investments are classified as Cash and cash equivalents within our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our accounting policies. In addition to $673 million invested in money market funds and time deposits as of December 31, 2022 and $1.632 billion as of December 31, 2021, we held $256 million in interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing bank accounts as of December 31, 2022 and $293 million as of December 31, 2021.

Our recurring fair value measurements using Level 3 inputs include those related to our contingent consideration liability. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for a discussion of the changes in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability.

In addition, our recurring fair value measurements using Level 3 inputs related to our licensing arrangements, including the contractual right to receive future royalty payments related to the Zytiga™ Drug. We own the contractual right to receive 50 percent of the future Zytiga™ Drug royalty payments from the licensee and remit such payments to the inventors associated with the intellectual property. We recognized a financial asset and associated liability for our licensing arrangements at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets using the fair value option in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments. We elected the fair value option to measure the financial asset and associated liability as it provides for consistency and comparability of these instruments. Royalty payments we receive reduce the fair value of the financial asset and are presented within Proceeds from royalty rights, and payments we remit to inventors reduce the fair value of the financial liability and are presented within Payments for royalty rights within our consolidated statements of cash flows. We sold our right to receive and retain the other 50 percent of the future royalty payments in 2019 for an upfront cash payment, which we accounted for as a secured borrowing in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing. Although we sold these rights, we continue to recognize at fair value the future royalty payments as a financial asset and associated liability. Royalty payments associated with the rights we sold no longer impact our cash flows, and we present this activity as Non-cash impact of transferred royalty rights in the supplemental information to our consolidated statements of cash flows. We reduce the fair value of the financial asset and associated liability when such non-cash activity occurs.

We record the fair value of the financial asset and associated liability using a discounted cash flow approach considering the probability-weighted expected future cash flows to be generated by the royalty stream. The fair value of the financial liability also considers the related contractual provisions that govern our payment obligations. Significant increases or decreases in projected cash flows of the royalty stream and the related contractual provisions that govern our payment obligations, discount rates or the time until payment is made would have resulted in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement of the licensing arrangements' financial asset and liability as of December 31, 2022. However, increases or decreases in the financial asset would be offset by increases or decreases in the financial liability, other than for timing of receipt and remittance; as such our earnings are not subject to material gains and losses from the licensing arrangement.
The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our licensing arrangements recognized in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2022 include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Licensing Arrangements Fair Value as of December 31, 2022 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- --- ---
Financial Asset $127 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 15% 15%
Projected Year of Payment 2023 - 2025 2024
Financial Liability $159 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 12% - 15% 13%
Projected Year of Payment 2023 - 2026 2024

(1)    Unobservable inputs relate to a single financial asset and liability. As such, unobservable inputs were not weighted by the relative fair value of the instruments. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.

Changes in the fair value of our licensing arrangements' financial asset were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 365
Proceeds from royalty rights (163)
Fair value adjustment (expense) benefit 44
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 246
Proceeds from royalty rights (141)
Fair value adjustment (expense) benefit 22
Balance as of December 31, 2022 $ 127

Changes in the fair value of our licensing arrangements' financial liability were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 407
Payments for royalty rights (166)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 41
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 281
Payments for royalty rights (145)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 23
Balance as of December 31, 2022 $ 159

Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements

We hold certain assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in periods after initial recognition. The fair value of a measurement alternative investment is not estimated if there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for a discussion of our strategic investments and Note C – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for a discussion of the fair values of our intangible assets including goodwill.

The fair value of our outstanding debt obligations was $8.203 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $10.196 billion as of December 31, 2021. We determined fair value by using quoted market prices for our publicly registered senior notes, classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, and face value for commercial paper, term loans and credit facility borrowings outstanding. Refer to Note E – Contractual Obligations and Commitments for a discussion of our debt obligations.

X
---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueDisclosuresAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for the fair value of financial instruments (as defined), including financial assets and financial liabilities (collectively, as defined), and the measurements of those instruments as well as disclosures related to the fair value of non-financial assets and liabilities. Such disclosures about the financial instruments, assets, and liabilities would include: (1) the fair value of the required items together with their carrying amounts (as appropriate); (2) for items for which it is not practicable to estimate fair value, disclosure would include: (a) information pertinent to estimating fair value (including, carrying amount, effective interest rate, and maturity, and (b) the reasons why it is not practicable to estimate fair value; (3) significant concentrations of credit risk including: (a) information about the activity, region, or economic characteristics identifying a concentration, (b) the maximum amount of loss the entity is exposed to based on the gross fair value of the related item, (c) policy for requiring collateral or other security and information as to accessing such collateral or security, and (d) the nature and brief description of such collateral or security; (4) quantitative information about market risks and how such risks are managed; (5) for items measured on both a recurring and nonrecurring basis information regarding the inputs used to develop the fair value measurement; and (6) for items presented in the financial statement for which fair value measurement is elected: (a) information necessary to understand the reasons for the election, (b) discussion of the effect of fair value changes on earnings, (c) a description of [similar groups] items for which the election is made and the relation thereof to the balance sheet, the aggregate carrying value of items included in the balance sheet that are not eligible for the election; (7) all other required (as defined) and desired information. + ReferencesReference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 820 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123874694&loc=d3e19207-110258 + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueDisclosuresTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
70
R14.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Contractual Obligations and Commitments 12 Months Ended
--------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------ -------------- ----- ------ --- ------
Dec. 31, 2022
Debt Disclosure [Abstract]
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS
Issuance Date Maturity Date As of December 31, Coupon Rate(1)
(in millions, except interest rates) 2022 2021
October 2023 Senior Notes(4) August 2013 October 2023 $ — $ 244 4.125%
March 2024 Notes(4) February 2019 March 2024 504 850 3.450%
March 2025 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2025 1,067 — 0.750%
May 2025 Senior Notes(4) May 2015 May 2025 — 523 3.850%
June 2025 Senior Notes May 2020 June 2025 500 500 1.900%
March 2026 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2026 255 850 3.750%
December 2027 Senior Notes(3) November 2019 December 2027 960 1,021 0.625%
March 2028 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2028 800 — 1.375%
March 2028 Senior Notes(4) February 2018 March 2028 344 434 4.000%
March 2029 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2029 272 850 4.000%
June 2030 Senior Notes May 2020 June 2030 1,200 1,200 2.650%
March 2031 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2031 800 — 1.625%
March 2034 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2034 534 — 1.875%
November 2035 Senior Notes(2) November 2005 November 2035 350 350 6.750%
March 2039 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2039 450 750 4.550%
January 2040 Senior Notes December 2009 January 2040 300 300 7.375%
March 2049 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2049 650 1,000 4.700%
Unamortized Debt Issuance Discount and Deferred Financing Costs 2023 - 2049 (76) (76)
Unamortized Gain on Fair Value Hedges 2022 — 3
Finance Lease Obligation Various 5 6
Long-term debt $ 8,915 $ 8,804

Note: The table above does not include unamortized amounts related to interest rate contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
(1)    Coupon rates are semi-annual, except for the euro-denominated notes, which bear an annual coupon.
(2)    Corporate credit rating improvements may result in a decrease in the adjusted interest rate on our November 2035 Notes to the extent that our lowest credit rating is above BBB- or Baa3. The interest rates on our November 2035 Notes will be permanently reinstated to the issuance rate if the lowest credit ratings assigned to these senior notes is either A- or A3 or higher. Effective November 15, 2021, the interest rate payable decreased by 0.25 percent and began accruing at a rate of 6.75 percent following upgrades to our credit ratings. Effective May 2023, the interest rate payable will decrease by 0.25 percent and begin accruing at a rate of 6.50 percent following recent upgrades to our credit ratings.
(3) These notes are euro-denominated and presented in U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate in effect as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
(4)    Amounts repaid, or partially repaid as the case may be, in connection with the March 2022 tender offer and early redemption of certain of our outstanding senior notes are described below. In addition, in the first quarter of 2022, we repaid $250 million of 3.375% May 2022 Senior Notes classified within Current Debt Obligations within our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021.
Contractual maturities of our long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022 are as follows:

Fiscal Year
----------- ----- -
 2023 $ —
 2024 504
 2025 1,567
 2026 255
 2027 960
Thereafter 5,700

Revolving Credit Facility

On May 10, 2021, we entered into a new $2.750 billion revolving credit facility (2021 Revolving Credit Facility) with a global syndicate of commercial banks and terminated our previous facility (2018 Revolving Credit Facility). The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility will mature on May 10, 2026, with one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions. This facility provides backing for our commercial paper program, and outstanding commercial paper directly reduces borrowing capacity under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. There were no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2022 or December 31, 2021.

Financial Covenant

As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the financial covenant required by the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility.

 Covenant Requirementas of December 31, 2022 Actualas of December 31, 2022
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
Maximum permitted leverage ratio(1) 3.75 times 2.57 times

(1) Ratio of total debt to deemed consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the credit agreements, as amended.

The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility includes the financial covenant requirement for all of our credit arrangements that we maintain the maximum permitted leverage ratio of 3.75 times for the remaining term. The agreement provides for higher leverage ratios, at our election, for the period following a qualified acquisition, for which consideration exceeds $1.000 billion. In the event of such an acquisition, for the four succeeding quarters immediately following, including the quarter in which the acquisition occurs, the maximum permitted leverage ratio is 4.75 times. It steps down for the fifth, sixth and seventh succeeding quarters to 4.50 times, 4.25 times and 4.00 times, respectively. Thereafter, a maximum leverage ratio of 3.75 times is required through the remaining term of the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. We have not elected to increase the maximum permitted leverage ratio for qualified acquisitions due to our funding of these acquisitions using cash on hand.

The financial covenant requirement provides for an exclusion from the calculation of consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the agreement, through maturity, of any non-cash charges and up to $500 million in restructuring charges and restructuring-related expenses related to our current or future restructuring plans. As of December 31, 2022, we had $265 million of the restructuring charge exclusion remaining. In addition, any cash litigation payments (net of any cash litigation receipts), as defined by the agreements, are excluded from the calculation of consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the agreements, provided that the sum of any excluded net cash litigation payments do not exceed $1.455 billion in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2022, we had $866 million of the litigation exclusion remaining.

Any inability to maintain compliance with this covenant could require us to seek to further renegotiate the terms of our credit arrangements or seek waivers from compliance with this covenant, both of which could result in additional borrowing costs. Further, there can be no assurance that our lenders would agree to such new terms or grant such waivers on terms acceptable to us. In this case, all 2021 Revolving Credit Facility commitments would terminate, and any amounts borrowed under the facility would become immediately due and payable. Furthermore, any termination of our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility may negatively impact the credit ratings assigned to our commercial paper program, which may impact our ability to refinance any then outstanding commercial paper as it becomes due and payable.
Commercial Paper

Our commercial paper program is backed by the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. We did not have any commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.

Senior Notes

We had senior notes outstanding of $8.986 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $9.121 billion as of December 31, 2021. Our senior notes were issued in public offerings, are redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to sinking fund requirements. Our senior notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations and rank on parity with each other. These notes are effectively junior to liabilities of our subsidiaries (see Other Arrangements below).

In March 2022, American Medical Systems Europe B.V. (AMS Europe), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific, completed a registered public offering (the Offering) of €3.000 billion in aggregate principal amount of euro-dominated senior notes comprised of €1.000 billion of 0.750% Senior Notes due 2025, €750 million of 1.375% Senior Notes due 2028, €750 million of 1.625% Senior Notes due 2031 and €500 million of 1.875% Senior Notes due 2034 (collectively, the Eurobonds). Boston Scientific has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of AMS Europe's obligations under the Eurobonds, and no other subsidiary of Boston Scientific will guarantee these obligations. AMS Europe is a “finance subsidiary” as defined in Rule 13-01(a)(4)(vi) of Regulation S-X. The financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of AMS Europe are consolidated in the financial statements of Boston Scientific. The Offering resulted in cash proceeds of $3.270 billion, net of investor discounts and issuance costs.

We used the net proceeds from the Offering to fund the tender offer and early redemption of combined aggregate principal amount of $3.275 billion of certain of our outstanding senior notes, as well as to pay accrued interest, tender premiums, fees and expenses. We recorded associated debt extinguishment charges of $194 million during the first quarter of 2022 presented in Interest expense within our consolidated statements of operations.

Other Arrangements

We have accounts receivable factoring programs in certain European countries and with commercial banks in China and Japan which include promissory notes discounting programs. We account for our factoring programs as sales under FASB ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing. We have no retained interest in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administration, and once sold, the accounts receivable are no longer available to satisfy creditors in the event of bankruptcy. Amounts de-recognized for accounts and notes receivable, which are excluded from Trade accounts receivable, net in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, are aggregated by contract denominated currency below (in millions):

As of December 31, 2022 As of December 31, 2021
----------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------- ------------------------------ --- --- --- -
Factoring Arrangements AmountDe-recognized Weighted Average Interest Rate AmountDe-recognized Weighted Average Interest Rate
Euro denominated $ 161 2.4 % $ 141 2.1 %
Yen denominated 194 0.6 % 223 0.6 %
Renminbi denominated 13 3.1 % 11 3.2 %

Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments

We had outstanding letters of credit of $135 million as of December 31, 2022 and $134 million as of December 31, 2021, which consisted primarily of bank guarantees and collateral for workers' compensation insurance arrangements. As of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we had not recognized a related liability for our outstanding letters of credit in our consolidated balance sheets.
Future minimum purchase obligations, relating primarily to non-cancellable inventory commitments and capital expenditures entered in the normal course of business, were as of December 31, 2022 (in millions):

Fiscal Year Unrecorded Purchase Obligations
----------- ------------------------------- -----
 2023 $ 755
 2024 119
 2025 71
 2026 35
 2027 19
Thereafter 21
 $ 1,021

X
---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_DebtDisclosureAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for information about short-term and long-term debt arrangements, which includes amounts of borrowings under each line of credit, note payable, commercial paper issue, bonds indenture, debenture issue, own-share lending arrangements and any other contractual agreement to repay funds, and about the underlying arrangements, rationale for a classification as long-term, including repayment terms, interest rates, collateral provided, restrictions on use of assets and activities, whether or not in compliance with debt covenants, and other matters important to users of the financial statements, such as the effects of refinancing and noncompliance with debt covenants. + ReferencesReference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2208564Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1B -Subparagraph (h) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495323-112611Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1C -Subparagraph (c) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495334-112611Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1I -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495371-112611Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1I -Subparagraph (d) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495371-112611Reference 6: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.4-08(c)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=120395691&loc=d3e23780-122690Reference 7: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1B -Subparagraph (g) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495323-112611Reference 8: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1C -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495334-112611Reference 9: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1C -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495334-112611Reference 10: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1E -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495348-112611Reference 11: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1B -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495323-112611Reference 12: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1I -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495371-112611Reference 13: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 470 -SubTopic 20 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1B -Subparagraph (i) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=123466505&loc=SL123495323-112611 + Details Name: us-gaap_DebtDisclosureTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
71
R15.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Leases 12 Months Ended
------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ---- - ---
Dec. 31, 2022
Leases [Abstract]
Lessee, Operating Leases
As of December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021
Assets
Operating lease right-of-use assets in Other long-term assets $ 386 $ 435
Liabilities
Operating lease liabilities in Other current liabilities 61 71
Operating lease liabilities in Other long-term liabilities 347 389

The following table presents the weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate information related to our operating leases:
As of December 31,
------------------------------------- -------- --------
 2022 2021
Weighted average remaining lease term 10 years 10 years
Weighted average discount rate 3.3% 2.6%

Our operating lease cost under FASB ASC Topic 842 was $91 million in 2022, $90 million in 2021 and $92 million in 2020.

The following table presents supplemental cash flow information related to our operating leases:

Year Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- - --
(in millions) 2022 2021
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities
Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 91 $ 87

Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease obligations were $43 million and $68 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.

The following table presents the maturities of our operating lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions):
Fiscal year Operating Leases
--------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---
 2023 $ 80
 2024 66
 2025 55
 2026 43
 2027 34
Thereafter 214
Total future minimum operating lease payments 492
Less: imputed interest (84)
Present value of operating lease liabilities $ 408

X
---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_LeasesAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for operating leases of lessee. Includes, but is not limited to, description of operating lease and maturity analysis of operating lease liability. + ReferencesReference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 842 -SubTopic 20 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/subtopic&trid=77888251 + Details Name: us-gaap_LesseeOperatingLeasesTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
72
R16.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Supplemental Balance Sheet Information 12 Months Ended
------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
Dec. 31, 2022
Supplemental Balance Sheet Information [Abstract]
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
 As of December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021
Trade accounts receivable $ 2,079 $ 1,886
Allowance for credit losses (109) (108)
 $ 1,970 $ 1,778

The following is a rollforward of our Allowance for credit losses:
Year Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- --- - ---
(in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Beginning balance $ 108 $ 105 $ 74
Cumulative effect adjustment for adoption of ASU 2016-13 n/a n/a 10
Credit loss expense 35 28 49
Write-offs (35) (25) (27)
Ending balance $ 109 $ 108 $ 105

Note: Effective January 1, 2020, we adopted FASB ASC Topic 326 using the modified retrospective method, which requires that we recognize credit loss reserves when financial assets are established if credit losses are expected over the asset’s contractual life.

Inventories
 As of December 31,
--------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Finished goods $ 1,171 $ 1,029
Work-in-process 147 128
Raw materials 548 452
 $ 1,867 $ 1,610

Approximately 27 percent of our finished goods inventory as of December 31, 2022 and approximately 30 percent as of December 31, 2021 was at customer locations pursuant to consignment arrangements or held by sales representatives.

Other current assets
 As of December 31,
----------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- - ---
(in millions) 2022 2021
Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents $ 149 $ 188
Derivative assets 232 226
Licensing arrangements 60 132
Other 290 254
 $ 731 $ 799

Property, plant and equipment, net
 As of December 31,
--------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Land $ 137 $ 109
Buildings and improvements 1,695 1,523
Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3,297 3,287
Capital in progress 598 605
 5,728 5,525
Less: accumulated depreciation 3,282 3,273
 $ 2,446 $ 2,252

Depreciation expense was $333 million in 2022, $352 million in 2021 and $333 million in 2020.

Other long-term assets
 As of December 31,
----------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Restricted cash equivalents $ 48 $ 55
Operating lease right-of-use assets 386 435
Derivative assets 149 169
Investments 407 412
Licensing arrangements 67 114
Indemnification asset 172 —
Other 271 225
 $ 1,500 $ 1,410

Accrued expenses
 As of December 31,
------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Legal reserves $ 231 $ 264
Payroll and related liabilities 830 848
Rebates 352 350
Contingent consideration 74 289
Other 674 686
 $ 2,160 $ 2,436

Other current liabilities
 As of December 31,
---------------------- ------------------ ---- - ---
(in millions) 2022 2021
Deferred revenue $ 220 $ 208
Licensing arrangements 79 138
Taxes payable 232 209
Other 230 228
 $ 761 $ 783

Other long-term liabilities
 As of December 31,
--------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Accrued income taxes $ 597 $ 442
Legal reserves 212 284
Contingent consideration 75 197
Licensing arrangements 80 143
Operating lease liabilities 347 389
Deferred revenue 289 276
Other 434 489
 $ 2,035 $ 2,220

X
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------
- DefinitionSupplemental Balance Sheet Information. + ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: bsx_SupplementalBalanceSheetInformationAbstract
Namespace Prefix: bsx_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for supplemental balance sheet disclosures, including descriptions and amounts for assets, liabilities, and equity. + ReferencesReference 1: http://fasb.org/us-gaap/role/ref/legacyRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 210 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2122208 + Details Name: us-gaap_SupplementalBalanceSheetDisclosuresTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
73
R17.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Income Taxes 12 Months Ended
-------------------------------- --------------- ------- ----- ----- ---- -----
Dec. 31, 2022
Income Tax Disclosure [Abstract]
INCOME TAXES
Year Ended December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Domestic $ (1,119) $ (648) $ (660)
Foreign 2,260 1,724 581
 $ 1,141 $ 1,076 $ (79)

The related expense (benefit) for income taxes consisted of the following:
Year Ended December 31,
----------------------- ----- ----- ---- -- - ----
(in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Current
Federal $ 51 $ 18 $ (29)
State 19 33 (35)
Foreign 381 127 151
 451 178 87
Deferred
Federal (92) (256) (26)
State (32) (3) (6)
Foreign 117 117 (53)
 (7) (142) (85)
 $ 443 $ 36 $ 2

The reconciliation of income taxes at the federal statutory rate to the actual expense (benefit) for income taxes is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------ ----- ---- ------ --- ------ -
 2022 2021 2020
U.S. federal statutory income tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % (21.0) %
State income taxes, net of federal benefit 0.7 % 2.5 % 16.6 %
Domestic taxes on foreign earnings 15.3 % 6.8 % 155.4 %
Effect of foreign taxes (3.8) % (14.3) % (40.7) %
Acquisition-related 4.4 % (8.1) % (16.7) %
Research credit (4.5) % (3.0) % (43.0) %
Valuation allowance (1.3) % 0.8 % (42.0) %
Goodwill impairment charges — % — % 3.7 %
Compensation-related 0.6 % (0.6) % (7.7) %
Non-deductible expenses 0.4 % 0.4 % 64.4 %
Uncertain tax positions 7.7 % 1.2 % (96.8) %
Intra-entity asset transfers — % — % 10.2 %
Return to provision (2.1) % (5.7) % (37.3) %
Change in tax rates (0.2) % 1.9 % 51.8 %
Other, net 0.7 % 0.4 % 6.0 %
 38.9 % 3.3 % 2.9 %

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

 As of December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Deferred Tax Assets:
Inventory costs and related reserves $ 19 $ 10
Tax benefit of net operating losses and credits 511 620
Reserves and accruals 304 324
Restructuring-related charges 6 14
Litigation and product liability reserves 103 127
Investment write-down 38 31
Compensation related 136 130
Federal benefit of uncertain tax positions 9 8
Intangible assets 3,668 3,546
Capitalized R&D 160 67
Property, plant and equipment 2 14
Other — 35
 4,954 4,926
Less: valuation allowance (1,004) (1,014)
 3,950 3,912
Deferred Tax Liabilities:
Unrealized gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 117 79
Other 34 —
 151 79
Net Deferred Tax Assets 3,799 3,833
Prepaid on intercompany profit 264 205
Net Deferred Tax Assets and Prepaid on Intercompany Profit $ 4,062 $ 4,038

Our deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities and prepaid on intercompany profit are included in the following locations within our accompanying consolidated balance sheets (in millions):

Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets As of December 31,
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- ----- ----- ---
Component 2022 2021
Prepaid on intercompany profit Prepaid income taxes $ 264 $ 205
Non-current deferred tax asset Deferred tax assets 3,942 4,142
Deferred Tax Assets and Prepaid on Intercompany Profit 4,206 4,348
Non-current deferred tax liability Deferred tax liabilities 144 310
Deferred Tax Liabilities 144 310
Net Deferred Tax Assets and Prepaid on Intercompany Profit $ 4,062 $ 4,038

As of December 31, 2022, we had U.S. federal and state tax net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits, the tax effect of which was $464 million. As of December 31, 2021, we had U.S. federal and state tax net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits, the tax effect of which was $560 million. In addition, we had foreign tax net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits, the tax effect of which was $47 million as of December 31, 2022, and $60 million as of December 31, 2021. These tax attributes expire periodically beginning in 2023.

After consideration of all positive and negative evidence, we believe that it is more likely than not that a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. As a result, we recorded a valuation allowance of $1.004 billion as of December 31, 2022, and $1.014 billion as of December 31, 2021. The decrease in the valuation allowance as of December 31, 2022, compared to December 31, 2021, is primarily due to the release of valuation allowances on certain U.S. state net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards due to the repatriation of foreign earnings, offset by the concurrent build of the valuation allowance on
other state attributes. The income tax impact of the unrealized gain or loss component of other comprehensive income and stockholders' equity was a charge of $56 million in 2022, a charge of $81 million in 2021 and a benefit of $78 million in 2020.

We obtain tax incentives through Free Trade Zone Regime offered in Costa Rica which allows 100 percent exemption from income tax in the first eight years of operations and 50 percent exemption in the following four years. This tax incentive resulted in income tax savings of $162 million in 2022, $149 million in 2021 and $64 million in 2020. The tax incentive for 100 percent exemption from income tax is expected to expire in 2027, with the 50 percent exemption to expire in 2031. The impact on Net income (loss) per common share - assuming dilution was $0.11 for 2022, $0.10 for 2021 and $0.04 for 2020. We also benefit from tax incentives in Puerto Rico through a Grant of Industrial Tax Exemption (Grant) which applies a reduced tax rate to our taxable profits, resulting in income tax savings of $21 million in 2022, $27 million in 2021 and $30 million in 2020. This Grant expires in 2034, with an option to extend for an additional 15 years. The impact on Net income (loss) per common share - assuming dilution was $0.02 in each of the years 2022, 2021 and 2020. Additionally, we benefit from tax incentives in Malaysia which allow a full tax exemption on manufacturing of specific medical device products, which will expire in 2029, with an option to renew for an additional five-year term. This incentive has resulted in income tax savings of $17 million in 2022 and $0 in 2021 and 2020. The impact on Net income (loss) per common share - assuming dilution was $0.01 in 2022 and de minimis in 2021 and 2020.

As of December 31, 2022, we had $492 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net $410 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2021, we had $255 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net $177 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2020, we had $261 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net $183 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

 Year Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---- ----- --- - ---
(in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Beginning Balance $ 255 $ 261 $ 455
Additions based on positions related to the current year 88 8 28
Additions based on positions related to prior years 177 41 6
Reductions for tax positions of prior years (20) (36) (186)
Settlements with taxing authorities (1) (2) (27)
Statute of limitation expirations (8) (17) (15)
Ending Balance $ 492 $ 255 $ 261

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. We have concluded all U.S. federal income tax matters through 2016 and substantially all material state and local income tax matters through 2014. We have concluded substantially all foreign income tax matters through 2015.

In 2020, we received notification from the IRS regarding the examination of our 2014 through 2016 tax years stating that the Joint Committee on Taxation completed its review, and the IRS examination was resolved. Due to the resolution of these tax years, we recorded a net tax benefit of $91 million to release the reserves related to these years. We received a refund of $62 million from the IRS reflecting the net balance of amounts owed to us by the IRS after consideration of tax and interest due for these years.

We recognize interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense. We had $77 million accrued for gross interest and penalties as of December 31, 2022, $43 million as of December 31, 2021, and $41 million as of December 31, 2020. Net tax expense related to interest and penalties was immaterial in 2022, 2021 and 2020. The increase in our net tax expense related to interest and penalties as of December 31, 2022, compared to December 31, 2021, is related to reaching settlements with taxing authorities.

It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will resolve multiple issues with foreign, federal and state taxing authorities, resulting in a reduction in our balance of unrecognized tax benefits of up to $75 million.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, we were required under the TCJA to calculate a one-time transition tax based on our total post-1986 foreign subsidiaries' earnings and profits (E&P) that we previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. As a result of various audit activities, the revised amount of transition tax was approximately $937 million as of December 31, 2022, as compared to $938 million as of December 31, 2021. We anticipate offsetting this liability against existing tax attributes, reducing the required payment to approximately $586 million, which will be remitted over an eight-year period. We have begun remitting the required installment payments, with a balance remaining of $386 million as of December 31, 2022. In addition, we have provided for U.S. state income taxes of $14 million on all U.S. dollar-denominated E&P accumulated through December 31, 2017, which constitutes the preponderance of our foreign subsidiaries' accumulated E&P through December 31, 2017. We intend to indefinitely reinvest the unremitted foreign earnings of all other subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017, as well as all subsequent earnings generated by all of our foreign subsidiaries. Determining the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to any remaining undistributed foreign earnings and additional outside basis difference in these entities is not practicable.We are subject to a territorial tax system under the TCJA, in which we are required to provide for tax on Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. We have established an accounting policy election to provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense.

X
---------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_IncomeTaxDisclosureAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for income taxes. Disclosures may include net deferred tax liability or asset recognized in an enterprise's statement of financial position, net change during the year in the total valuation allowance, approximate tax effect of each type of temporary difference and carryforward that gives rise to a significant portion of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets, utilization of a tax carryback, and tax uncertainties information. + ReferencesReference 1: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 21 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=121826272&loc=d3e32857-109319Reference 2: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (SAB Topic 11.C) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=122134291&loc=d3e330215-122817Reference 3: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 17 -Subparagraph (b) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=121826272&loc=d3e32809-109319Reference 4: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SAB TOPIC 6.I.5.Q1) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=122134291&loc=d3e330036-122817Reference 5: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 10 -Section 50 -Paragraph 14 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=121826272&loc=d3e32705-109319Reference 6: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 270 -Section 50 -Paragraph 1 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6424409&loc=d3e44925-109338Reference 7: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -URI http://asc.fasb.org/topic&trid=2144680Reference 8: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 740 -SubTopic 30 -Section 50 -Paragraph 2 -Subparagraph (a) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=6424122&loc=d3e41874-109331Reference 9: http://www.xbrl.org/2003/role/disclosureRef -Publisher FASB -Name Accounting Standards Codification -Topic 235 -SubTopic 10 -Section S99 -Paragraph 1 -Subparagraph (SX 210.4-08(h)(2)) -URI http://asc.fasb.org/extlink&oid=120395691&loc=d3e23780-122690 + Details Name: us-gaap_IncomeTaxDisclosureTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
74
R18.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Commitments and Contingencies 12 Months Ended
--------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dec. 31, 2022
Commitments and Contingencies Disclosure [Abstract]
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES NOTE I – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The medical device market in which we participate is largely technology driven. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and differentiation. Over the years, there has been litigation initiated against us by others, including our competitors, claiming that our current or former product offerings infringe patents owned or licensed by them. Intellectual property litigation is inherently complex and unpredictable. In addition, competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties. In some cases, several competitors are parties in the same proceeding, or in a series of related proceedings, or litigate multiple features of a single class of devices. These dynamics frequently drive settlement not only for individual cases, but also for a series of pending and potentially related and unrelated cases. Although monetary and injunctive relief is typically sought, remedies and restitution are generally not determined until the conclusion of the trial court proceedings and can be modified on appeal. Accordingly, the outcomes of individual cases are difficult to time, predict or quantify and are often dependent upon the outcomes of other cases in other geographies. During recent years, we successfully negotiated closure of several long-standing legal matters and have received favorable rulings in several other matters; however, there continues to be outstanding intellectual property litigation. Adverse outcomes in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell certain products and on our operating margins, financial position, results of operations and/or liquidity.In addition, product liability, securities and commercial claims have been asserted against us and similar claims may be asserted against us in the future related to events not known to management at the present time. We maintain an insurance policy providing limited coverage against securities claims and we are substantially self-insured with respect to product liability claims and fully self-insured with respect to intellectual property infringement claims. The absence of significant third-party insurance coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims or adverse decisions. Product liability claims, secur

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on normal course, our payment terms with customers, including distributors, hospitals, healthcare agencies, clinics, doctors']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[' financial liability were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 407
Payments for royalty rights (166)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 41
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 281
Payments for royalty rights (145)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 23
Balance as of December 31, 2022 $ 159

Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements

We hold certain assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in periods after initial recognition. The fair value of a measurement alternative investment is not estimated if there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for a discussion of our strategic investments and Note C – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for a discussion of the fair values of our intangible assets including goodwill.

The fair value of our outstanding debt obligations was $8.203 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $10.196 billion as of December 31, 2021. We determined fair value by using quoted market prices for our publicly registered senior notes, classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, and face value for commercial paper, term loans and credit facility borrowings outstanding. Refer to Note E – Contractual Obligations and Commitments for a discussion of our debt obligations.

X
---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueDisclosuresAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for the fair value of financial instruments (as defined), including financial assets and financial liabilities (collectively, as defined), and the measurements of those instruments as well as disclosures related to the fair value of non-financial assets and liabilities. Such disclosures about the financial instruments, assets, (3) significant concentrations of credit risk including: (a) information about the activity, region, or economic characteristics identifying a concentration, (b) the maximum amount of loss the entity + Details Name: us-gaap_FairValueDisclosuresTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
70
R14.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Contractual Obligations and Commitments 12 Months Ended
--------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------ -------------- ----- ------ --- ------
Dec. 31, 2022
Debt Disclosure [Abstract]
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS
Issuance Date Maturity Date As of December 31, Coupon Rate(1)
(in millions, except interest rates) 2022 2021
October 2023 Senior Notes(4) August 2013 October 2023 $ — $ 244 4.125%
March 2024 Notes(4) February 2019 March 2024 504 850 3.450%
March 2025 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2025 1,067 — 0.750%
May 2025 Senior Notes(4) May 2015 May 2025 — 523 3.850%
June 2025 Senior Notes May 2020 June 2025 500 500 1.900%
March 2026 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2026 255 850 3.750%
December 2027 Senior Notes(3) November 2019 December 2027 960 1,021 0.625%
March 2028 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2028 800 — 1.375%
March 2028 Senior Notes(4) February 2018 March 2028 344 434 4.000%
March 2029 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2029 272 850 4.000%
June 2030 Senior Notes May 2020 June 2030 1,200 1,200 2.650%
March 2031 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2031 800 — 1.625%
March 2034 Senior Notes(3) March 2022 March 2034 534 — 1.875%
November 2035 Senior Notes(2) November 2005 November 2035 350 350 6.750%
March 2039 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2039 450 750 4.550%
January 2040 Senior Notes December 2009 January 2040 300 300 7.375%
March 2049 Senior Notes(4) February 2019 March 2049 650 1,000 4.700%
Unamortized Debt Issuance Discount and Deferred Financing Costs 2023 - 2049 (76) (76)
Unamortized Gain on Fair Value Hedges 2022 — 3
Finance Lease Obligation Various 5 6
Long-term debt $ 8,915 $ 8,804

Note: The table above does not include unamortized amounts related to interest rate contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
(1)    Coupon rates are semi-annual, except for the euro-denominated notes, which bear an annual coupon.
(2)    Corporate credit rating improvements may result in a decrease in the adjusted interest rate on our November 2035 Notes to the extent that our lowest credit rating is above BBB- or Baa3. The interest rates on our November 2035 Notes will be permanently reinstated to the issuance rate if the lowest ratings.
(3) These notes are euro-denominated and presented in U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate in effect as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
(4)    Amounts repaid, or partially repaid $250 million of 3.375% May 2022 Senior Notes classified within Current Debt Obligations within our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021.
Contractual maturities of our long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022 are as follows:

Fiscal Year
----------- ----- -
 2023 $ —
 2024 504
 2025 1,567
 2026 255
 2027 960
Thereafter 5,700

Revolving Credit Facility

On May 10, 2021, we entered into a new paper directly reduces borrowing capacity under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. There were no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2022 or December 31, 2021.

Financial Covenant

As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the financial covenant required by the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility.

 Covenant Requirementas of December 31, 2022 Actualas of December 31, 2022
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
Maximum permitted leverage ratio(1) 3.75 times 2.57 times

(1) Ratio of total debt to deemed consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the credit agreements, as amended.

The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility includes the financial covenant requirement for all of our credit arrangements that we for which consideration exceeds $1.000 billion. In the event of such an acquisition, for the four succeeding quarters immediately following, including the quarter in which the acquisition occurs, the our funding of these acquisitions using cash on hand.

The financial covenant requirement provides for an exclusion from the calculation of consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the agreement, through maturity, of any non-cash charges and up to $500 million in restructuring charges and restructuring-related expenses related to our current or future restructuring plans. As of December 31, 2022, we had $265 million EBITDA, as defined by the agreements, provided that the sum of any excluded net cash litigation payments do not exceed $1.455 billion in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2022, we had $866 million of the litigation exclusion remaining.

Any inability to maintain compliance with this covenant could require us to seek to further renegotiate the terms of our credit arrangements or seek waivers from compliance to us. In this case, all 2021 Revolving Credit Facility commitments would terminate, and any amounts borrowed under the facility would become immediately due and payable. Furthermore, any termination as it becomes due and payable.
Commercial Paper

Our commercial paper program is backed by the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. We did not have any commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.

Senior Notes

We had senior notes outstanding of $8.986 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $9.121 billion as of December 31, 2021. Our senior notes were issued in public offerings, are redeemable liabilities of our subsidiaries (see Other Arrangements below).

In March 2022, American Medical Systems Europe B.V. (AMS Europe), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific, completed a all of AMS Europe']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[' compensation insurance arrangements. As of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we had not recognized a related liability for our outstanding letters of credit in our consolidated balance sheets.
Future minimum purchase obligations, relating primarily to non-cancellable inventory commitments and capital expenditures entered in the normal course of business, were as of December 31, 2022 (in millions):

Fiscal Year Unrecorded Purchase Obligations
----------- ------------------------------- -----
 2023 $ 755
 2024 119
 2025 71
 2026 35
 2027 19
Thereafter 21
 $ 1,021

X
---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_DebtDisclosureAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for information about short-term and long-term debt arrangements, which includes amounts of borrowings under each line of credit, note + Details Name: us-gaap_DebtDisclosureTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
71
R15.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Leases 12 Months Ended
------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ---- - ---
Dec. 31, 2022
Leases [Abstract]
Lessee, Operating Leases
As of December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021
Assets
Operating lease right-of-use assets in Other long-term assets $ 386 $ 435
Liabilities
Operating lease liabilities in Other current liabilities 61 71
Operating lease liabilities in Other long-term liabilities 347 389

The following table presents the weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate information related to our operating leases:
As of December 31,
------------------------------------- -------- --------
 2022 2021
Weighted average remaining lease term 10 years 10 years
Weighted average discount rate 3.3% 2.6%

Our operating lease cost under FASB ASC Topic 842 was $91 million in 2022, $90 million in 2021 and $92 million in 2020.

The following table presents supplemental cash flow information related to our operating leases:

Year Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- - --
(in millions) 2022 2021
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities
Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 91 $ 87

Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease obligations were $43 million and $68 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.

The following table presents the maturities of our operating lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions):
Fiscal year Operating Leases
--------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---
 2023 $ 80
 2024 66
 2025 55
 2026 43
 2027 34
Thereafter 214
Total future minimum operating lease payments 492
Less: imputed interest (84)
Present value of operating lease liabilities $ 408

X
---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------
- ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: us-gaap_LeasesAbstract
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for operating leases of lessee. Includes, but is not limited to, description of operating lease and maturity analysis of operating + Details Name: us-gaap_LesseeOperatingLeasesTextBlock
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
72
R16.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Supplemental Balance Sheet Information 12 Months Ended
------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
Dec. 31, 2022
Supplemental Balance Sheet Information [Abstract]
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
 As of December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021
Trade accounts receivable $ 2,079 $ 1,886
Allowance for credit losses (109) (108)
 $ 1,970 $ 1,778

The following is a rollforward of our Allowance for credit losses:
Year Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- --- - ---
(in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Beginning balance $ 108 $ 105 $ 74
Cumulative effect adjustment for adoption of ASU 2016-13 n/a n/a 10
Credit loss expense 35 28 49
Write-offs (35) (25) (27)
Ending balance $ 109 $ 108 $ 105

Note: Effective January 1, 2020, we adopted life.

Inventories
 As of December 31,
--------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Finished goods $ 1,171 $ 1,029
Work-in-process 147 128
Raw materials 548 452
 $ 1,867 $ 1,610

Approximately 27 percent of our finished goods inventory as of December 31, 2022 and approximately 30 percent as of December 31, 2021 was at customer locations pursuant to consignment arrangements or held by sales representatives.

Other current assets
 As of December 31,
----------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- - ---
(in millions) 2022 2021
Restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents $ 149 $ 188
Derivative assets 232 226
Licensing arrangements 60 132
Other 290 254
 $ 731 $ 799

Property, plant and equipment, net
 As of December 31,
--------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Land $ 137 $ 109
Buildings and improvements 1,695 1,523
Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3,297 3,287
Capital in progress 598 605
 5,728 5,525
Less: accumulated depreciation 3,282 3,273
 $ 2,446 $ 2,252

Depreciation expense was $333 million in 2022, $352 million in 2021 and $333 million in 2020.

Other long-term assets
 As of December 31,
----------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Restricted cash equivalents $ 48 $ 55
Operating lease right-of-use assets 386 435
Derivative assets 149 169
Investments 407 412
Licensing arrangements 67 114
Indemnification asset 172 —
Other 271 225
 $ 1,500 $ 1,410

Accrued expenses
 As of December 31,
------------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Legal reserves $ 231 $ 264
Payroll and related liabilities 830 848
Rebates 352 350
Contingent consideration 74 289
Other 674 686
 $ 2,160 $ 2,436

Other current liabilities
 As of December 31,
---------------------- ------------------ ---- - ---
(in millions) 2022 2021
Deferred revenue $ 220 $ 208
Licensing arrangements 79 138
Taxes payable 232 209
Other 230 228
 $ 761 $ 783

Other long-term liabilities
 As of December 31,
--------------------------- ------------------ ----- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Accrued income taxes $ 597 $ 442
Legal reserves 212 284
Contingent consideration 75 197
Licensing arrangements 80 143
Operating lease liabilities 347 389
Deferred revenue 289 276
Other 434 489
 $ 2,035 $ 2,220

X
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------
- DefinitionSupplemental Balance Sheet Information. + ReferencesNo definition available. + Details Name: bsx_SupplementalBalanceSheetInformationAbstract
Namespace Prefix: bsx_
Data Type: xbrli:stringItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

X
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
- DefinitionThe entire disclosure for supplemental balance sheet disclosures, including descriptions and amounts for assets, liabilities, and equity. 
Namespace Prefix: us-gaap_
Data Type: dtr-types:textBlockItemType
Balance Type: na
Period Type: duration

XML
73
R17.htm
IDEA: XBRL DOCUMENT

v3.22.4
Income Taxes 12 Months Ended
-------------------------------- --------------- ------- ----- ----- ---- -----
Dec. 31, 2022
Income Tax Disclosure [Abstract]
INCOME TAXES
Year Ended December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Domestic $ (1,119) $ (648) $ (660)
Foreign 2,260 1,724 581
 $ 1,141 $ 1,076 $ (79)

The related expense (benefit) for income taxes consisted of the following:
Year Ended December 31,
----------------------- ----- ----- ---- -- - ----
(in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Current
Federal $ 51 $ 18 $ (29)
State 19 33 (35)
Foreign 381 127 151
 451 178 87
Deferred
Federal (92) (256) (26)
State (32) (3) (6)
Foreign 117 117 (53)
 (7) (142) (85)
 $ 443 $ 36 $ 2

The reconciliation of income taxes at the federal statutory rate to the actual expense (benefit) for income taxes is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------ ----- ---- ------ --- ------ -
 2022 2021 2020
U.S. federal statutory income tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % (21.0) %
State income taxes, net of federal benefit 0.7 % 2.5 % 16.6 %
Domestic taxes on foreign earnings 15.3 % 6.8 % 155.4 %
Effect of foreign taxes (3.8) % (14.3) % (40.7) %
Acquisition-related 4.4 % (8.1) % (16.7) %
Research credit (4.5) % (3.0) % (43.0) %
Valuation allowance (1.3) % 0.8 % (42.0) %
Goodwill impairment charges — % — % 3.7 %
Compensation-related 0.6 % (0.6) % (7.7) %
Non-deductible expenses 0.4 % 0.4 % 64.4 %
Uncertain tax positions 7.7 % 1.2 % (96.8) %
Intra-entity asset transfers — % — % 10.2 %
Return to provision (2.1) % (5.7) % (37.3) %
Change in tax rates (0.2) % 1.9 % 51.8 %
Other, net 0.7 % 0.4 % 6.0 %
 38.9 % 3.3 % 2.9 %

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

 As of December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------- - -----
(in millions) 2022 2021
Deferred Tax Assets:
Inventory costs and related reserves $ 19 $ 10
Tax benefit of net operating losses and credits 511 620
Reserves and accruals 304 324
Restructuring-related charges 6 14
Litigation and product liability reserves 103 127
Investment write-down 38 31
Compensation related 136 130
Federal benefit of uncertain tax positions 9 8
Intangible assets 3,668 3,546
Capitalized R&D 160 67
Property, plant and equipment 2 14
Other — 35
 4,954 4,926
Less: valuation allowance (1,004) (1,014)
 3,950 3,912
Deferred Tax Liabilities:
Unrealized gains and losses on derivative financial instruments 117 79
Other 34 —
 151 79
Net Deferred Tax Assets 3,799 3,833
Prepaid on intercompany profit 264 205
Net Deferred Tax Assets and Prepaid on Intercompany Profit $ 4,062 $ 4,038

Our deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities and prepaid on intercompany profit are included in the following locations within our accompanying consolidated balance sheets (in millions):

Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets As of December 31,
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- ----- ----- ---
Component 2022 2021
Prepaid on intercompany profit Prepaid income taxes $ 264 $ 205
Non-current deferred tax asset Deferred tax assets 3,942 4,142
Deferred Tax Assets and Prepaid on Intercompany Profit 4,206 4,348
Non-current deferred tax liability Deferred tax liabilities 144 310
Deferred Tax Liabilities 144 310
Net Deferred Tax Assets and Prepaid on Intercompany Profit $ 4,062 $ 4,038

As of December 31, 2022, we had U.S. federal and state tax net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits, the tax effect of which was $464 million. As of December 31, 2021, we the tax effect of which was $47 million as of December 31, 2022, and $60 million as of December 31, 2021. These tax attributes expire periodically beginning in 2023.

After consideration of all positive December 31, 2022, and $1.014 billion as of December 31, 2021. The decrease in the valuation allowance as of December 31, 2022, compared to December 31, 2021, is primarily due to the release of valuation allowances on certain U.S. state net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards due to the repatriation of foreign earnings, offset by the concurrent build of the valuation allowance on
other state attributes. The income tax impact of the unrealized gain or loss component of other comprehensive income and stockholders']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement