================================================================================
CIK: 0000927066
Company Name: DAVITA INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-22
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 11:34:07
================================================================================

Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." As described in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, we are party to a senior secured credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), which consists of an up to $1 billion secured revolving line of credit, a secured term loan A facility and a secured term loan B-1 facility. Our long-term indebtedness also includes $4.250 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes.
Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate. As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.
Our indebtedness levels and the required payments on such indebtedness may also be impacted by developments related to LIBOR replacement. The variable interest rates payable under our senior secured credit facilities have historically been linked to LIBOR as the benchmark for establishing such rates. We expect that the LIBOR benchmark will cease to exist after June 30, 2023. Our senior secured credit facilities include mechanics to facilitate the adoption by us and our lenders of an alternative benchmark rate for use in place of LIBOR and through this mechanism or other amendments or agreements with our lenders we expect to reference a replacement index that measures the cost of borrowing cash overnight, backed by U.S. Treasury securities (Secured Overnight Financing Rate or SOFR) or a variation thereof; however, no assurance can be made that we and our lenders, or any lenders in a subsequent refinancing of our credit facilities, will agree on such an alternative rate and, even if agreed upon, such alternative rate may not perform in a manner similar to LIBOR and may result in interest rates that are higher or lower than those that would have resulted had LIBOR remained in effect, which could impact our cost of capital.
Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts, including, without limitation, any strategic acquisitions or investments we may make in the future, to repurchase our stock at the levels intended or announced and to meet our other liquidity needs such as for working capital or capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash. This depends not only on the success of our business but is also subject to economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurances that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our working capital and other liquidity needs, including those described above. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to service our outstanding indebtedness or to meet our working capital or other liquidity needs, including those described above, we would be required to refinance, restructure, or otherwise amend some or all of such indebtedness, sell assets, change or reduce our intended or announced uses or strategy for capital deployment, including, without limitation, for stock repurchases, reduce capital expenditures, planned expansions or other strategic initiatives, or raise additional cash through the sale of our equity or equity-related securities. We cannot make any assurances that any such refinancing, restructurings, amendments, sales of assets, or issuances of equity or equity-related securities can be accomplished or, if accomplished, will be on favorable terms or would raise sufficient funds to meet these obligations or our other liquidity needs.

50

In addition, we may continue to incur indebtedness in the future, and the amount of that additional indebtedness may be substantial. Although the Credit Agreement includes covenants that could limit our indebtedness, we currently have, and expect to continue to have, the ability to incur substantial additional debt. The risks described in this risk factor could intensify as new debt is added to current debt levels or if we incur any new debt obligations that subject us to restrictive covenants that limit our financial and operational flexibility. Any breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Other risks related to our ability to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and for other intended purposes, include, for example:
•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;
•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate;
•expose us to interest rate volatility that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and our ability to service our indebtedness;
•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and
•limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to refinance existing debt on favorable terms when otherwise available or at all.
Any failure to pay any of our indebtedness when due or any other default under our credit facilities or our other indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could trigger cross default or cross acceleration provisions in our other debt instruments, thereby permitting the holders of that other indebtedness to demand immediate repayment or cease to make future extensions of credit, and, in the case of secured indebtedness, to take possession of and sell the collateral securing such indebtedness to satisfy our obligations.
The borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and senior indentures are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries, and borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our and certain of our domestic subsidiaries' assets. Such guarantees and the fact that we have pledged such assets may make it more difficult and expensive for us to make, or under certain circumstances could effectively prevent us from making, additional secured and unsecured borrowings.

We could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions.
We are subject to tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. As the tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in a change in our overall tax provision.
Changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the domestic and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our patients, business partners and counterparties or the economy may also impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to material penalties and liabilities. We are regularly subject to audits by various tax authorities. For example, our current audits include an audit by the Internal Revenue Service for the years 2016–2017, and it is possible that the final determination of this and any other tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any changes in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; any adverse development or outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The effects of natural or other disasters, political instability, public health crises or adverse weather events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires or flooding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Some of our operations, including our clinical laboratory, dialysis centers and other facilities, may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural or other disasters, political instability, public health crises such as global pandemics or epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, or adverse weather events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires or flooding. Each of these effects and risks may be further intensified by the increasing impact of climate change on a global scale. In addition, these risks

51

are particularly heightened for our patients in part because individuals with chronic illness may be more susceptible to the adverse effects of epidemics or other public health crises and also because any natural or other disaster, political instability or adverse weather event that disrupts or limits the operation of any of our centers or other facilities or services may delay or otherwise impact the critical services we provide to dialysis patients. Further, any such event or other occurrence that results in a failure of the fitness of our clinical laboratory, dialysis centers and related operations and/or other facilities or otherwise adversely impacts the safety of our teammates or patients at any of those locations could lead us to face adverse consequences, including, without limitation, the potential loss of data, including PHI or PII, compliance or regulatory investigations, any of which could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could materially harm our reputation. For example, our clinical laboratory is located in Florida, a state that has in the past experienced and may in the future experience hurricanes. Natural or other disasters or adverse weather events could significantly damage or destroy our facilities, disrupt operations, increase our costs to maintain operations and require substantial expenditures and recovery time to fully resume operations. In addition, as the effects of climate change progressively surface, such as through potential increases in the frequency and intensity of natural or other disasters or adverse weather events or through laws or regulations adopted in response, we may face increased costs associated with operating our clinics, including, without limitation, with respect to supplies of water or energy costs.
Our presence in markets outside the U.S. may increase our exposure to these and similar risks related to natural disasters, public health crises, political instability, climate change or other catastrophic events outside our control. For additional information regarding the risks related to our international business, see the discussion in the risk factor under the heading "Expansion of our operations to and offering our services in markets outside of the U.S...."
Any or all of these factors, as well as other consequences of these events, none of which we can currently predict, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or materially harm our reputation.

We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance or exceed our existing insurance coverage that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could materially harm our reputation.
Our operations and how we manage our business may subject us, as well as our officers and directors to whom we owe certain defense and indemnity obligations, to litigation and liability. Our business, profitability and growth prospects could suffer if we face negative publicity or we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope or limits of coverage of any applicable insurance coverage, including, without limitation, claims related to adverse patient events, cybersecurity incidents, contractual disputes, antitrust and competition laws and regulations, professional and general liability and directors' and officers' duties. In addition, we have received notices of claims from commercial payors and other third parties, as well as subpoenas and civil investigative demands from the federal government, related to our business practices, including, without limitation, our historical billing practices and the historical billing practices of acquired businesses. Although the ultimate outcome of these claims cannot be predicted, an adverse result with respect to one or more of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could materially harm our reputation. We maintain insurance coverage for those risks we deem are appropriate to insure against and make determinations about whether to self-insure as to other risks or layers of coverage. However, a successful claim, including, without limitation, a professional liability, malpractice or negligence claim or a claim related to antitrust and competition laws or a cybersecurity incident, which is in excess of any applicable insurance coverage, that is outside the scope or limits of any applicable insurance coverage, or that is subject to our self-insurance retentions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and reputation.
In addition, if our costs of insurance and claims increase, then our earnings could decline. Market rates for insurance premiums and deductibles have been steadily increasing. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of the following:
•the collapse or insolvency of our insurance carriers;
•further increases in premiums and deductibles;
•increases in the number of liability claims against us or the cost of settling or trying cases related to those claims;
•obtaining insurance with exclusions for things such as communicable diseases; or
•an inability to obtain one or more types of insurance on acceptable terms, if at all.

52

If we fail to successfully maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting, the integrity of our financial reporting could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to accurately report our financial results, the market's perception of our business and our stock price.
The integration of acquisitions and addition of new business lines into our internal control over financial reporting has required and will continue to require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and has increased, and is expected to continue to increase, our compliance costs. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to accurately report our financial results, the market's perception of our business and our stock price. In addition, we could be required to restate our financial results in the event of a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting or in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles.

Provisions in our organizational documents, our compensation programs and policies and certain requirements under Delaware law may deter changes of control and may make it more difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors and take other corporate actions that our stockholders would otherwise determine to be in their best interests.
Our organizational documents include provisions that may deter hostile takeovers, delay or prevent changes of control or changes in our management, or limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they may otherwise determine to be in their best interests. These include provisions prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent, advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals and granting our Board of Directors the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of the preferred stock without the need for further stockholder approval.
Most of our outstanding employee stock-based compensation awards include a provision accelerating the vesting of the awards in the event of a change of control. These and any other change of control provisions may affect the price an acquirer would be willing to pay for our Company.
We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, subject to exceptions, prohibits us from engaging in any business combinations with any interested stockholder, as defined in that section, for a period of three years following the date on which that stockholder became an interested stockholder.
The provisions described above may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company at a price that our stockholders may find attractive. These provisions could also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock.

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.
None.

Item 2.        Properties.
Our corporate headquarters are located in Denver, Colorado, consisting of one owned 240,000 square foot building and one leased 345,900 square foot location. Our headquarters are occupied by teammates engaged in management, finance, marketing, strategy, legal, compliance and other administrative functions. We lease six business offices located in California, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Washington in the U.S. In addition, our international headquarters is located in the United Kingdom and consists of one leased business office. Our laboratory is based in Florida where we operate our lab services out of one leased building. We also lease other administrative offices in the U.S. and worldwide.
The vast majority of our U.S. outpatient dialysis centers are located on premises that we lease. We regularly own an insignificant population of properties for development, including operating outpatient dialysis centers and properties we hold for sale.
The majority of our leases for our U.S. dialysis business cover periods from five years to 15 years and typically contain renewal options of five years to ten years at the fair rental value at the time of renewal. Our leases are generally subject to fixed escalation clauses, or contain consumer price index increases. Our outpatient dialysis centers range in size from approximately 1,000 to 33,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 7,800 square feet. Our international leases generally range from one to ten years.
Some of our outpatient dialysis centers are operating at or near capacity. However, we believe that we have adequate capacity within most of our existing dialysis centers to accommodate additional patient volume through increased hours and/or days of operation, or, if additional space is available within an existing facility, by adding dialysis stations. We can usually

53

relocate existing centers to larger facilities or open new centers if existing centers reach capacity. With respect to relocating centers or building new centers, we believe that we can generally lease space at economically reasonable rates in the areas planned for each of these centers, although there can be no assurances in this regard. Expansion of existing centers or relocation of our dialysis centers is subject to review for compliance with conditions relating to participation in the Medicare ESRD program, among other things. In states that require a certificate of need or center license, additional approvals would generally be necessary for expansion or relocation.

Item 3.        Legal Proceedings.
The information required by this Part I, Item 3 is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption "Contingencies" in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Item 4.        Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.

54

PART II

Item 5.        Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DVA. The closing price of our common stock on January 31, 2023 was $82.39 per share. According to Computershare, our registrar and transfer agent, as of January 31, 2023, there were 6,987 holders of record of our common stock. This figure does not include the indeterminate number of beneficial holders whose shares are held of record by brokerage firms and clearing agencies.
Our initial public offering was in 1994, and we have not declared or paid cash dividends to holders of our common stock since going public. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends and there are certain limitations on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities. See "Liquidity and capital resources" under Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Stock Repurchases
The following table summarizes our repurchases of our common stock during 2022:

----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- - --------- ---------
Period Total numberof sharespurchased Average pricepaid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Approximate dollar valueof shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs
 (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share data)
January 1 - March 31, 2022 2,104 $ 110.90 2,104 $ 2,150,621
April 1 - June 30, 2022 3,869 95.56 3,869 $ 1,780,881
July 1 - September 30, 2022 2,122 87.10 2,122 $ 1,596,085
October 1 - December 31, 2022 — — — $ 1,596,085
Total 8,095 $ 97.33 8,095

Effective on December 10, 2020, the Board terminated all remaining prior share repurchase authorizations available to the Company and approved a new share repurchase authorization of $2.0 billion. Effective on December 17, 2021, the Board increased the Company's existing authorization by $2.0 billion. We are authorized to make purchases from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including without limitation, through accelerated share repurchase transactions, derivative transactions, tender offers, Rule 10b5-1 plans or any combination of the foregoing, depending upon market conditions and other considerations.
As of February 22, 2023, we have a total of $1.596 billion available under the current repurchase authorization for additional share repurchases. Although this share repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date, we remain subject to share repurchase limitations, including under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities.

Item 6.        Reserved

55

Item 7.        Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Forward-looking statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and as such are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements could include, among other things, DaVita's response to and the expected future impacts of the coronavirus (COVID-19), including statements about our balance sheet and liquidity, our expenses and expense offsets, revenues, billings and collections, availability or cost of supplies, treatment volumes, mix expectation, such as the percentage or number of patients under commercial insurance, the availability, acceptance, impact, administration and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, treatments and therapies, the continuing impact on the U.S. and global economies, labor market conditions, and overall impact on our patients and teammates, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, expenses, strategic initiatives, government and commercial payment rates, expectations related to value-based care, integrated kidney care and Medicare Advantage (MA) plan enrollment and our ongoing stock repurchase program. All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, statements including the words "expect," "intend," "will," "could," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on DaVita's current expectations and are based solely on information available as of the date of this report. DaVita undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changed circumstances, new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Actual future events and results could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to numerous factors that involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things:
•the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, current macroeconomic and marketplace conditions, and global events, many of which are interrelated and which relate to, among other things, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, business, operations, reputation, financial condition and results of operations; the government's response to the ongoing pandemic; the pandemic's continuing impact on the U.S. and global economies, labor market conditions, interest rates, inflation and evolving monetary policies; the availability, acceptance, impact and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, treatments and therapies; further spread or resurgence of the virus, including as a result of the emergence of new strains of the virus; the continuing impact of the pandemic on our revenues and non-acquired growth due to lower treatment volumes; COVID-19's impact on the chronic kidney disease (CKD) population and our patient population including on the mortality of these patients; any potential negative impact on our commercial mix or the number of our patients covered by commercial insurance plans; continued increased COVID-19-related costs; our ability to successfully implement cost savings initiatives; supply chain challenges and disruptions; and elevated teammate turnover and training costs and higher salary and wage expense, including, among other things, increased contract wages, driven in part by persisting labor market conditions and a high demand for our clinical personnel, any of which may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks and uncertainties discussed below, and in many cases, the impact of the pandemic and the aforementioned global economic conditions on our business may persist even after the pandemic subsides;
•the extent to which the ongoing implementation of healthcare reform, or changes in or new legislation, regulations or guidance, enforcement thereof or related litigation result in a reduction in coverage or reimbursement rates for our services, a reduction in the number of patients enrolled in or that select higher-paying commercial plans, including for example MA plans or other material impacts to our business or operations; or our making incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any such developments;
•risks arising from potential changes in laws, regulations or requirements applicable to us, such as potential and proposed federal and/or state legislation, regulation, ballot, executive action or other initiatives, including without limitation those related to healthcare and/or labor matters;
•the concentration of profits generated by higher-paying commercial payor plans for which there is continued downward pressure on average realized payment rates; a reduction in the number or percentage of our patients under such plans, including, without limitation, as a result of restrictions or prohibitions on the use and/or availability of charitable premium assistance, which may result in the loss of revenues or patients, as a result of our making incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any change in financial assistance from charitable organizations; or as a result of payors’ implementing restrictive plan designs, including, without limitation, actions taken in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Marietta Memorial Hospital Employee Health Benefit Plan, et al. v. DaVita Inc. et al. ("Marietta"); how and whether regulators and legislators will

56

respond to the Marietta decision including, without limitation, whether they will issue regulatory guidance or adopt new legislation; how courts will interpret other anti-discriminatory provisions that may apply to restrictive plan designs; whether there could be other potential negative impacts of the Marietta decision; and the timing of each of these items;
•our ability to attract, retain and motivate teammates and our ability to manage operating cost increases or productivity decreases whether due to union organizing activities, legislative or other changes, demand for labor, volatility and uncertainty in the labor market, the current challenging and highly competitive labor market conditions, or other reasons;
•U.S. and global economic and marketplace conditions, interest rates, inflation, unemployment, labor market conditions, and evolving monetary policies, and our ability to respond to these challenging conditions, including among other things our ability to successfully identify cost savings opportunities and to implement cost savings initiatives such as ongoing initiatives that increase our use of third-party service providers to perform certain activities, initiatives that relate to clinic optimization and capacity utilization improvement, and procurement opportunities, among other things;
•our ability to successfully implement our strategies with respect to integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives and home based dialysis in the desired time frame and in a complex, dynamic and highly regulated environment, including, among other things, maintaining our existing business; meeting growth expectations; recovering our investments; entering into agreements with payors, third party vendors and others on terms that are competitive and, as appropriate, prove actuarially sound; structuring operations, agreements and arrangements to comply with evolving rules and regulations; finding, training and retaining appropriate staff; and further developing our integrated care and other capabilities to provide competitive programs at scale;
•a reduction in government payment rates under the Medicare End Stage Renal Disease program, state Medicaid or other government-based programs and the impact of the Medicare Advantage benchmark structure;
•noncompliance by us or our business associates with any privacy or security laws or any security breach by us or a third party involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information;
•legal and compliance risks, such as our continued compliance with complex, and at times, evolving government regulations and requirements;
•the impact of the political environment and related developments on the current healthcare marketplace and on our business, including with respect to the Affordable Care Act, the exchanges and many other core aspects of the current healthcare marketplace, as well as the composition of the U.S. Supreme Court and the current presidential administration and congressional majority;
•changes in pharmaceutical practice patterns, reimbursement and payment policies and processes, or pharmaceutical pricing, including with respect to hypoxia inducible factors, among other things;
•our ability to develop and maintain relationships with physicians and hospitals, changing affiliation models for physicians, and the emergence of new models of care or other initiatives introduced by the government or private sector that, among other things, may erode our patient base and impact reimbursement rates;
•our ability to complete acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions that we might announce or be considering, on terms favorable to us or at all, or to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, or to successfully operate any acquired businesses, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, or to successfully expand our operations and services in markets outside the United States, or to businesses or products outside of dialysis services;
•continued increased competition from dialysis providers and others, and other potential marketplace changes, including without limitation increased investment in and availability of funding to new entrants in the dialysis and pre-dialysis marketplace;
•the variability of our cash flows, including without limitation any extended billing or collections cycles; the risk that we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash in the future to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; and the risk that we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due, on terms favorable to us or at all;

57

•factors that may impact our ability to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and the timing of any such stock repurchases, as well as our use of a considerable amount of available funds to repurchase stock;
•risks arising from the use of accounting estimates, judgments and interpretations in our financial statements;
•impairment of our goodwill, investments or other assets;
•our aspirations, goals and disclosures related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters, including, among other things, evolving regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards, measurements and reporting requirements; the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability standards; and our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent in our labor markets; and
•the other risk factors, trends and uncertainties set forth in Part I, Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in any subsequent reports that we file or furnish with the SEC from time to time.
The following should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements.

58

Company overview
Our principal business is to provide dialysis and related lab services to patients in the United States, which we refer to as our U.S. dialysis business. We also operate our U.S. integrated kidney care (IKC) business, our U.S. other ancillary services, and our international operations, which we collectively refer to as our ancillary services, as well as our corporate administrative support. Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the U.S. for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease (ESRD) or end stage kidney disease (ESKD).
On June 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our prior DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business to Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc. The effects of the DMG sale have been reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented and DMG is not included below in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.
We continued to experience challenges related to the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) and certain interrelated macroeconomic developments and conditions which negatively impacted our year-over-year revenue and treatment volumes in 2022. We also incurred higher compensation expense and advocacy spend in 2022, as well as increases in severance costs and center closures costs as we continue to focus on cost savings initiatives. In addition, 2022 was negatively impacted by our increased investment in our integrated care support functions needed to support the IKC patient growth. These negative trends were partially offset by increased U.S. dialysis average patient services revenue per treatment and continued growth in international businesses. In addition our 2022 financial performance benefited from lower pharmaceutical unit costs and intensity, health benefits expenses and medical supply expense as compared to the prior year.
Operational and financial highlights for 2022 include, among other things:
•total U.S. dialysis revenue benefited from an increase in average patient services revenue per treatment growth of $6.00 per treatment offset by a decrease in the number of treatments primarily due to increased mortality due to COVID-19's impact on our patient population;
•total revenue growth of 8.3% in our IKC business and 3.6% in our international operations;
•operating income of $1,339 million and adjusted operating income of $1,450 million;
•operating cash flows of $1,565 million and free cash flows of $817 million; and
•repurchase of 8,094,661 shares of our common stock for aggregate consideration of $788 million, and a 7.1% reduction in our share count year-over-year.
Additional highlights include:
•net decrease of 91 U.S. dialysis centers to improve center capacity and utilization, as well as a net increase of 11 international dialysis centers from acquisitions;
•continued patient growth in IKC to 42,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and an additional 15,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements; and
•the continued impact of COVID-19 and other macroeconomic conditions.
In 2023, we expect that COVID-19 and certain macroeconomic conditions will continue to impact our business and financial performance though the cumulative magnitude of these impacts remains difficult to predict and subject to significant uncertainty due to a number of factors, as described in further detail below under the heading "COVID-19, General Economic and Marketplace Conditions, and Legal and Regulatory Developments." On treatment volume, we continue to face pressure primarily driven by the impact of COVID-19 on the mortality rates of dialysis patients, as well as the direct and indirect impact of COVID-19 on our missed treatment rate and new admissions. We anticipate that this pressure also will be magnified by continued slowing industry growth and continued competitive activity in 2023. On reimbursement rate, we expect growth in aggregate, primarily due to the increase in Medicare payment rates under the ESRD Prospective Payment System as well as a continuing increase in anticipated Medicare Advantage enrollment due to the 21st Century Cures Act, partially offset by a full year of the resumption of Medicare sequestration. On cost, we continue to expect increasing pressure on wage rates and other costs due to the challenging labor market and inflationary conditions and increased severance costs as we focus on efficiencies in our administrative support functions partially offset by continued anticipated savings on pharmaceutical costs and a decrease in depreciation and amortization. We expect to incur significantly less advocacy costs in 2023 than we experienced in 2022. We also expect to continue making investments to expand our ability to offer home-based dialysis service options and further advance our integrated care and value-based care initiatives in 2023. Finally, considerable uncertainty exists surrounding the continued development of the various governmental laws, regulations and other requirements that impact our business.

59

The discussion below includes analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020, in its Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".
References to the "Notes" in the discussion below refer to the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K at Item 15, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" as referred from Part II Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

COVID-19, General Economic and Marketplace Conditions, and Legal and Regulatory Developments
As noted above and described in further detail below, the continued impacts on our business in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and general economic and market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, business, operations, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or liquidity. Many of these external factors and conditions are interrelated, including, among other things, supply chain challenges, inflation, rising interest rates, labor market conditions and wage pressure. Certain of these impacts could be further intensified by concurrent global events such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which has continued to drive sociopolitical and economic uncertainty and volatility in Europe and across the globe.
Operational and Financial Impacts
In 2022 we continued to experience a negative impact on revenue and non-acquired growth from COVID-19 due to lower treatment volumes. As noted above, these lower treatment volumes were driven primarily by the negative impact of COVID-19 on the mortality rates of our patients, which has in turn impacted our patient census, as well as the direct and indirect impact of COVID-19 on our missed treatment rate and new admissions. We expect that the impact of COVID-19 is likely to continue to negatively impact our revenue and non-acquired growth for a period of time even as the pandemic subsides due to the compounding impact of mortalities, among other things. During 2022, lower treatment volumes were also driven in part by declining new admissions and elevated missed treatment rates. New admission rates, future revenues and non-acquired growth could also continue to be negatively impacted over time to the extent that the CKD population experiences elevated mortality levels due to the pandemic. There remains significant uncertainty as to the ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our treatment volumes, in part due to, among other things, the indeterminate severity and duration of the pandemic and the complexity of factors that may drive new admissions and missed treatment rates over time. Depending on the ultimate severity and duration of the pandemic, the magnitude of these cumulative impacts could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
COVID-19 and other global conditions have also increased, and will continue to increase, our expenses, including, among others, staffing and labor costs. In 2022, we incurred higher than usual wage increases, and higher incentive pay. During 2022 we also incurred increased costs due to an increased utilization of contract labor, inefficient productivity and increased investment in training expenses. Each of those cost drivers were in turn primarily the result of the combination of our ongoing COVID-19-related clinical protocols and general labor, supply chain and inflationary pressures. As noted above, we expect certain of these increased costs to continue, and the cumulative impact of these costs could be material. In addition, potential staffing shortages or disruptions, if material, could ultimately lead to the unplanned closures of certain centers or adversely impact clinical operations, and may otherwise have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide dialysis services or the cost of providing those services, among other things. In 2022, we also saw a continued increase, relative to pre-pandemic conditions, in the effort and cost needed to procure certain of our equipment and clinical supplies, including pharmaceuticals and personal protective equipment (PPE), and some of which have been substantial.
The staffing and labor cost inflation described above, in addition to higher equipment and clinical supply costs, have put pressure on our existing cost structure, and as noted above, we expect that certain of those increased costs will persist as global supply chains continue to experience volatility and disruptions and as inflationary pressures and challenging labor market conditions continue. Prolonged volatility, uncertainty, labor supply shortages and other challenging labor market conditions could have an adverse impact on our growth and ability to execute on our other strategic initiatives and a material adverse impact on our labor costs. Prolonged strain on global supply chains may result in equipment and clinical supply shortages, disruptions, delays or associated price increases that could impact our ability to provide dialysis services or the cost of providing those services, among other things. Moreover, to the extent that inflationary pressure persists, this may in turn continue to increase our labor and supply costs at a rate that outpaces the Medicare or any other rate increases we may receive. In our value-based care and other programs where we assume financial accountability for total patient cost, an increase in COVID-19 rates among patients could have an impact on total cost of care. This increase may in turn impact the profitability of those programs relative to their respective funding.

60

As referenced above, we continue to implement cost savings opportunities to help mitigate these cost and volume pressures. These include, among other things, anticipated cost savings related to certain general and administrative cost efficiencies, such as ongoing initiatives that increase our use of third party service providers to perform certain activities, including, among others, finance and accounting functions as well as related information technology functions; initiatives relating to clinic optimization and initiatives for capacity utilization improvement; and procurement opportunities. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, charges in connection with the continued implementation of these initiatives, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute these initiatives or that they will achieve expectations or succeed in helping offset the impact of these challenging conditions. Any failure on our part to adjust our business and operations in this manner, to adjust to other marketplace developments or dynamics or to appropriately implement these initiatives in accordance with applicable legal, regulatory or compliance requirements could adversely impact our ability to provide dialysis services or the cost of providing those services, among other things, and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Federal, State and Local Government Response
The government response to COVID-19 has been wide-ranging and will continue to develop over time. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict the nature, timing or extent of the impact of such changes on the markets in which we conduct business or on the other participants that operate in those markets, or any potential changes to the extensive set of federal, state and local laws, regulations and requirements that govern our business. For example, federal COVID-19 relief legislation suspended the 2% Medicare sequestration from May 1, 2020 through March 31, 2022. The Medicare sequestration was reinstated in stages until the full 2% level was resumed as of July 1, 2022. While in effect, the suspension of sequestration significantly increased our revenues.
We believe the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the aforementioned general economic and marketplace conditions on the Company over time will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. With respect to COVID-19, these future developments include, among other things, the ultimate severity and duration of the pandemic; the evolution of new strains or variants of the virus that may present varying levels of infectivity or virulence; COVID-19's impact on the CKD patient population and our patient population, including on the mortality of these patients; the availability, acceptance, impact and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, treatments and therapies; the pandemic’s continuing impact on our revenue and non-acquired growth due to lower treatment volumes; the potential negative impact on our commercial mix or the number of patients covered by commercial insurance plans; continued increased COVID-related costs; supply chain challenges and disruptions, including with respect to our clinical supplies; the responses of our competitors to the pandemic and related changes in the marketplace; the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local government responses; and any potential changes to the extensive set of federal, state and local laws, regulations and requirements that govern our business. In certain cases, the impact of the pandemic on us may persist even after the pandemic subsides. COVID-19 has also intensified certain of the aforementioned general economic and marketplace conditions and developments in the U.S. and global economies, including labor market conditions, inflation and monetary policies, among others. We expect that these conditions will continue to impact our business in 2023.
For additional discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic and our response, the various general economic and marketplace conditions that may impact our business, and the risks and uncertainties related to each of these, please see the discussion in Part I Item 1. Business under the headings, "COVID-19 and its impact on our business" and "Human Capital Management," as well as the risk factors in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors, including, among others, the risks under the headings, "Macroeconomic conditions and global events..." and "If we are unable to compete successfully...".
Legal and Regulatory Developments
In 2022, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the matter of Marietta Memorial Hospital Employee Health Benefit Plan, et al. v. DaVita Inc., et al., a case evaluating the scope of the Medicare Secondary Payor Act (MSPA), deciding that a group health plan that provides limited benefits for outpatient dialysis, but does so uniformly for all plan participants, does not violate the terms of the MSPA because the plan treats all patients uniformly, regardless of whether a participant has ESRD and regardless of whether the participant is eligible for Medicare. For additional information, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report and the risk factor in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines..." There is significant uncertainty as to the ultimate impact of the decision, but if a significant number of commercial plans, including employer group health plans, implement or utilize plan designs that discourage or prevent ESRD patients from retaining their commercial coverage, it may lead to a decrease in the number of patients with commercial plans, the duration of benefits for patients under commercial plans and/or decrease in the payment rates we receive, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

61

Consolidated results of operations
The following table summarizes our revenues, operating income (loss) and adjusted operating income (loss) by line of business. See the discussion of our results for each line of business following this table. When multiple drivers are identified in the following discussion of results, they are listed in order of magnitude:

------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------ ------ ------- - ------ - ------ -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Revenues:
U.S. dialysis $ 10,600 $ 10,667 $ (67) (0.6) %
Other - Ancillary services 1,101 1,047 54 5.2 %
Elimination of intersegment revenues (91) (95) 4 4.2 %
Total consolidated revenues $ 11,610 $ 11,619 $ (9) (0.1) %

Operating income (loss):
U.S. dialysis $ 1,565 $ 1,975 $ (410) (20.8) %
Other - Ancillary services (97) (66) (31) (47.0) %
Corporate administrative support (130) (112) (18) (16.1) %
Operating income $ 1,339 $ 1,797 $ (458) (25.5) %

Adjusted operating income (loss):(1)
U.S. dialysis $ 1,668 $ 1,993 $ (325) (16.3) %
Other - Ancillary services (89) (66) (23) (34.8) %
Corporate administrative support (129) (112) (17) (15.2) %
Adjusted operating income $ 1,450 $ 1,815 $ (365) (20.1) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income (loss) by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.

U.S. dialysis business
As of December 31, 2022, our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services, operating 2,724 outpatient dialysis centers serving a total of approximately 199,400 patients, and contracted to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 820 hospitals. We estimate that we have approximately a 36% share of the U.S. dialysis market based upon the number of patients we serve.
Approximately 91% of our 2022 consolidated revenues were derived directly from our U.S. dialysis business. The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis revenues include    :
•our number of treatments, which is primarily a function of the number of chronic patients requiring approximately three in-center treatments per week as well as, to a lesser extent, the number of treatments for home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis; and
•our average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment, including the mix of patients with commercial plans and government programs as primary payor.
Within our U.S. dialysis business, our home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis services are operationally integrated with our outpatient dialysis centers and related laboratory services. Our outpatient, home-based and hospital inpatient dialysis services comprise approximately 76%, 18% and 6% of our U.S. dialysis revenues, respectively.
In the U.S., government dialysis-related payment rates are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For 2022, approximately 67% of our total U.S. dialysis patient services revenues were generated from government-based programs for services to approximately 90% of our total U.S. patients. These government-based programs are principally Medicare and Medicare Advantage, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans, and other government plans, representing approximately 57%, 7% and 3% of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues, respectively.

62

On October 31, 2022, CMS issued a final rule to update the ESRD PPS payment rate and policies, as described further above. CMS estimates the final rule will affect ESRD facilities' average reimbursement by a productivity-adjusted market basket increase of 3.0% in 2023.
Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a significant driver of our total average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment. Commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) represent approximately 33% of U.S. dialysis patient services revenues.
For discussion of government reimbursement, the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, Medicare Advantage and commercial reimbursement, see the discussion in Part I. Item 1. Business under the heading "U.S. dialysis business – Sources of revenue-concentrations and risks." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements..." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with commercial payors, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, if the average rates that commercial payors pay us declines..."
Approximately 1% of our total U.S. dialysis patient services revenues for each of the years 2022 and 2021 were associated with the administration of separately-billable physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals, the majority of which relate to the administration of calcimimetics.
We anticipate that we will continue to experience increases in our operating costs in 2023 that may outpace any net Medicare, commercial or other rate increases that we may receive, which could significantly impact our operating results. In particular, we expect to continue experiencing increases in operating costs that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, including increases in maintenance costs, regardless of whether there is a compensating inflation-based increase in Medicare, commercial or other payor payment rates. We also continue to expect to incur additional COVID-19-related costs while the pandemic continues. In addition, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures and associated depreciation and amortization to improve, renovate and maintain our facilities, equipment and information technology to meet evolving regulatory requirements and otherwise.
U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers, home-based dialysis programs and hospital inpatient dialysis programs, and consist principally of labor, benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers.
The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis patient care costs include:
•clinical hours per treatment, labor rates and benefit costs;
•vendor pricing and utilization levels of pharmaceuticals;
•business infrastructure costs, which include the operating costs of our dialysis centers; and
•medical supply costs.
Other cost categories that can present significant variability include insurance costs and professional fees. In addition, proposed ballot initiatives or referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes could cause us to incur substantial costs to prepare for, or implement changes required. Any such changes could result in, among other things, increases in our labor costs or limitations on the amount of revenue that we can retain. For additional information on risks associated with potential and proposed ballot initiatives, referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, "Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations..."
Our average clinical hours per treatment increased in 2022 compared to 2021. We are always striving for improved productivity levels, however, changes in factors such as federal and state policies or regulatory billing requirements can lead to increased labor costs. In 2022, the demand for skilled clinical personnel continued, exacerbated by the nationwide shortage caused by the continuing COVID-19 pandemic on these resources. In 2022 and 2021, we experienced increases in our clinical labor rates of approximately 7.4% and 3.9%, respectively. We expect to continue to see higher clinical labor rates and continued use of contract labor in 2023 due to the labor market conditions and the continued competition for skilled clinical personnel. In 2022, our overall clinical teammate turnover increased from 2021. We also continue to experience increases in the

63

infrastructure and operating costs of our dialysis centers and general increases in rent and repairs and maintenance. In 2022, we continued to implement certain cost control initiatives to help manage our overall operating costs, including labor productivity, and we expect to continue these initiatives in 2023.
Our U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses represented 9.8% and 8.7% of our U.S. dialysis revenues in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Increases in general and administrative expenses over the last several years were primarily related to strengthening our dialysis business and related compliance and operational processes, responding to certain legal and compliance matters, professional fees associated with enhancing our information technology (IT) systems, such as our new clinical system, and more recently advocacy costs in 2022 related to countering union policy efforts and severance costs related to planned administrative efficiencies. We expect that these levels of general and administrative expenses will be impacted by lower advocacy costs in 2023 compared to 2022, continued investment in developing our capabilities and executing on our strategic priorities, as well as additional severance costs as we implement the planned administrative efficiencies, among other things.
U.S. dialysis results of operations
Treatment volume:

------------------------------------------- ----------------------- - ------------- ---------- ------ --------- ----- ----- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
Dialysis treatments 28,954,433 29,622,188 (667,755) (2.3) %
Average treatments per day 92,506 94,640 (2,134) (2.3) %
Treatment days 313.0 313.0 — — %
Normalized non-acquired treatment growth(1) (2.0) % (1.9) % (0.1) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)Normalized non-acquired treatment growth reflects year over year growth in treatment volume, adjusted to exclude acquisitions and other similar transactions, and further adjusted to normalize for the number and mix of treatment days in a given period versus the prior period.
Our U.S. dialysis treatment volume is directly correlated with our operating revenues and expenses. The decrease in our U.S. dialysis treatments in 2022 was primarily driven by the impact of increased mortality over recent periods on our patient population, and higher missed treatment rates, slightly offset by acquisition related growth. We believe the increased mortality rate is largely attributable to the impact of COVID-19 on our patient population.
Revenues:

--------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------ ------------- ------ ------ ------- - ---- ----- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions, except per treatment data)
Total revenues $ 10,600 $ 10,667 $ (67) (0.6) %
Average patient service revenue per treatment $ 365.24 $ 359.24 $ 6.00 1.7 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.
U.S. dialysis average patient service revenue per treatment increased primarily driven by increases in both commercial mix and rates, an increase in the Medicare base rate in 2022, and the continued shift to Medicare Advantage plans, partially offset by the reinstatement of 1% Medicare sequestration beginning April 1, 2022 through June 30, 2022 and 2% Medicare sequestration beginning July 1, 2022 and thereafter.

64

Operating expenses and charges:

------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------ ------------- ---- ------ ------ ------- - ----- - --- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions, except per treatment data)
Patient care costs $ 7,334 $ 7,153 $ 181 2.5 %
General and administrative(1) 1,038 926 111 12.0 %
Depreciation and amortization 691 643 48 7.5 %
Equity investment income (28) (30) 2 6.7 %
Total operating expenses and charges $ 9,034 $ 8,692 $ 343 3.9 %
Patient care costs per treatment $ 253.31 $ 241.47 $ 11.84 4.9 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers

(1)General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 included advocacy costs of approximately $51 million incurred to counter union policy efforts, including a California statewide ballot initiative (CA Proposition 29).
Charges impacting operating income
Closure costs. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we incurred higher than normal charges for center capacity closures. These closures were the result of a strategic review of our outpatient clinic capacity requirements and utilization, which have been impacted both by declines in our patient census in some markets due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as by our initiatives toward, and advances in, increasing the proportion of our home dialysis patients.
Our 2022 charges for U.S. dialysis center closures were approximately $86 million, which increased our patient care costs by $21 million, our general and administrative expenses by $19 million and our depreciation and amortization expense by $46 million. By comparison, 2021 charges for U.S. dialysis center closures were approximately $18 million, which increased our patient care costs by $2 million, our general and administrative expenses by $3 million and our depreciation and amortization expense by $12 million. These capacity closures costs included net losses on assets retired, lease costs, asset impairments and accelerated depreciation and amortization.
We will continue to optimize our U.S. dialysis center footprint through center mergers and/or closures and expect our center closure rates to remain at elevated levels over the next several quarters.
Severance costs. During the fourth quarter of 2022, we committed to a plan to increase efficiencies and cost savings in certain general and administrative support functions. As a result of this plan, we recognized expenses related to termination and other benefit commitments in our U.S. dialysis business of $17 million.
Patient care costs. U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers and consist principally of compensation expenses including labor and benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers.
U.S. dialysis patient care costs per treatment increased primarily due to increases in compensation expenses including increased wage rates and contract wages. Other drivers of this increase include increases in other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, including increases in utilities expense partially due to lower expense in 2021 related to our virtual power purchase arrangements, as well as center closure costs, as described above, insurance expenses and costs related to travel. In addition, our fixed other direct operating expenses negatively impacted patient care costs per treatment due to our decrease in treatments in 2022. These increases were partially offset by decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs, health benefit expenses and medical supply costs.
General and administrative expenses. U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to increases in advocacy costs to counter union policy efforts, compensation expenses including increased wage rates and severance costs, as described above, travel costs, center closure, as described above, and higher IT-related costs. This increase in U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses was partially offset by gains recognized on the sale of our self-developed properties, and decreases in professional fees and contributions to our charitable foundation.
Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense is directly impacted by the number of dialysis centers and the information technology that we develop and acquire as well as changes in useful lives. U.S. dialysis depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2022 primarily due to accelerated depreciation for expected center closures, as described above, increased depreciation and amortization for hardware associated with our new clinical system and other corporate technology projects and the development of new centers.

65

Equity investment income. U.S. dialysis equity investment income decreased primarily due to a decline in profitability at certain nonconsolidated dialysis partnerships.
Operating income and adjusted operating income

---------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------- ------ ----- ------- - ----- ------ -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Operating income $ 1,565 $ 1,975 $ (410) (20.8) %
Adjusted operating income(1) $ 1,668 $ 1,993 $ (325) (16.3) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.
U.S. dialysis operating income was negatively impacted by center closure and severance costs, as described above. Operating income and adjusted operating income decreased compared to 2021 primarily due to decreased dialysis treatments and increases in compensation expenses, advocacy costs, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, costs related to travel, depreciation expense related to IT projects and insurance expenses, each described above. Operating income and adjusted operating income were positively impacted by an increase in our average patient service revenue per treatment, as described above, as well as decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs, gains on sale of our self-developed properties and decreases in health benefit expenses and medical supply costs.

Other - Ancillary services
Our other operations include ancillary services that are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2022, these consisted primarily of our U.S. integrated kidney care (IKC) business, certain U.S. other ancillary businesses (including our clinical research programs, transplant software business, and venture investment group), and our international operations.
These ancillary services, including our international operations, generated revenues of approximately $1.101 billion in 2022, representing approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues.
As of December 31, 2022, DaVita IKC provided integrated care and disease management services to approximately 42,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 15,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements. We also expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include, among other things, healthcare services not related to dialysis.
For a discussion of the risks related to IKC and our ancillary services, see the discussion in the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, "The U.S. ancillary services and strategic initiatives and international operations that we operate or invest in now or in the future..." and "If we are not able to successfully implement our strategy with respect to our integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives..."
As of December 31, 2022, our international dialysis business owned or operated 350 outpatient dialysis centers located in 11 countries outside of the U.S. For 2022, total revenues generated from our international operations were approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues.

66

Ancillary services results of operations

------------------------------------ ----------------------- ----- ------------- --- ------ ----- ------- - ------- - ------ -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Revenues:
U.S. IKC $ 378 $ 349 $ 29 8.3 %
U.S. other ancillary 23 22 1 4.5 %
International 700 676 24 3.6 %
Total ancillary services revenues $ 1,101 $ 1,047 $ 54 5.2 %

Operating (loss) income:
U.S. IKC $ (125) $ (111) $ (14) (12.6) %
U.S. other ancillary (9) 3 (12) (400.0) %
International(1) 37 42 (5) (11.9) %
Total ancillary services loss $ (97) $ (66) $ (31) (47.0) %

Adjusted operating (loss) income(2):
U.S. IKC $ (124) $ (111) $ (13) (11.7) %
U.S. other ancillary (9) 3 (12) (400.0) %
International(1) 44 42 2 4.8 %
Total adjusted operating loss: $ (89) $ (66) $ (23) (34.8) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)The reported operating income and adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, includes foreign currency (losses) gains embedded in equity method income recognized from our APAC joint venture of approximately $(0.3) million and $3.3 million, respectively.
(2)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating (loss) income by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.
Revenues:
Our IKC revenues were impacted by an increase in shared savings, including savings from new programs, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from our special needs plans. Our other U.S. ancillary services revenues increased due to revenues from our newly acquired transplant software business, partially offset by decreased revenues in our clinical research programs. Our international revenues increased primarily due to acquisition-related growth, partially offset by the impact of increased mortality over recent periods on our patient population.
Charges impacting operating income - Severance and other costs.
During the fourth quarter of 2022, similar to U.S. dialysis, we committed to a plan to increase efficiencies and cost savings in certain general and administrative support functions and other overhead costs. As a result of this plan, we recognized expenses related to termination and other benefit commitments in our IKC business and these expenses and other charges in our international operations of $0.5 million and $7.5 million, respectively.
Operating loss and adjusted operating loss:
Our IKC operating loss and adjusted operating loss increased primarily due to continued investments in our integrated care support functions, partially offset by an increase in shared savings and improved performance in our special needs plans. Our other U.S. ancillary services operating loss was impacted by a benefit received from run-off of a legacy business recognized in 2021 and decreased revenues in our clinical research programs in 2022. Our international operating income was impacted by severance and other costs in one of our international businesses, as described above. International operating income and adjusted operating income were impacted by acquisition-related growth, partially offset by the impact of increased mortality over recent periods on our patient population and losses on foreign exchange compared to gains in the prior year.

67

Corporate administrative support
Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation expense, as well as professional fees, for departments which provide support to all of our various operating lines of business. Corporate administrative support expenses are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated income statement.
Corporate administrative support expenses increased $18 million primarily driven by increased legal fees and compensation expenses. These increases were partially offset by decreased long-term incentive compensation expense.

Corporate-level charges

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---- ------------- ---- ------ --- ------- --- ---- ----- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Debt expense $ 357 $ 285 $ 72 25.3 %

Other (loss) income, net $ (16) $ 6 $ (22) 366.7 %
Effective income tax rate 20.5 % 20.2 % 0.3 %
Effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc.(1) 26.5 % 23.8 % 2.7 %
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 221 $ 233 $ (12) (5.2) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc., see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.
Debt expense
Debt expense increased primarily due to an increase in our overall weighted average effective interest rate and weighted average credit facility balance outstanding, which included draws on our revolving line of credit during 2022. Our overall weighted average effective interest rate on all debt, including the effect of interest rate caps and amortization of debt discount, was 3.96% in 2022 compared to 3.28% in 2021. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the components of our debt and changes in them since 2021.
Other (loss) income
Other (loss) income consists primarily of interest income on cash and cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized on investments, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income decreased primarily due to increased losses on investments in 2022, partially offset by an increase in interest income.
Provision for income taxes
Our effective income tax rate and effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. increased in 2022 primarily due to increases in nondeductible advocacy expenses, foreign tax provision expense and a reduction in benefits from stock-based compensation. These increases were partially offset by benefits recognized in 2022 for uncertain tax positions outside the statute of limitations and a reduction in tax expense recognized in 2021 for deferred re-measurement. Additionally, our effective income tax rate was impacted by the portion of earnings attributable to our non-controlling interests.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
The decrease in income attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2022 compared to 2021 was due to a decrease in earnings at certain U.S. dialysis partnerships.

 Accounts receivable
Our consolidated accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 were $2.132 billion and $1.958 billion, respectively, representing approximately 68 days and 62 days of revenue (DSO), respectively. The increase in consolidated DSO resulted primarily from an increase of five days of DSO in our U.S. dialysis business, primarily due to delays in collections related to certain payors, temporary billing holds and changes in payor mix related to the continued shift to Medicare Advantage plans for which average collection times are longer than that of Medicare. Our DSO calculation is based on the most recent quarter’s average revenues per day. There were no significant changes during 2022 from 2021 in the

68

carrying amount of accounts receivable outstanding over one year old or in the amounts pending approval from third-party payors.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, our patient services accounts receivable balances that are more than six months old represented approximately 18% and 16%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable balances outstanding. Substantially all revenue realized for patient services is received from government and commercial payors, as discussed above. Less than 1% of our revenues in both periods were classified as patient pay.
Amounts pending approval from third-party payors associated with Medicare bad debt claims as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, other than the standard monthly billing, consisted of approximately $111 million and $133 million, respectively, and are classified as other receivables. A significant portion of our Medicare bad debt claims are typically paid to us before the Medicare fiscal intermediary audits the claims but are subject to subsequent adjustment based upon the actual results of those audits. Such audits typically occur one to four years after the claims are filed.

Liquidity and capital resources
The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash:

----------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ------------- ---------- ------ ------- ----------- - ------- - ------- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2022 2021 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities:
Net income $ 782 $ 1,212 $ (430) (35.5) %
Non-cash items in net income 783 860 (77) (9.0) %
Other working capital changes 66 (108) 174 161.1 %
Other (66) (33) (33) (100.0) %
 $ 1,565 $ 1,931 $ (366) (19.0) %

Net cash used in investing activities:
Capital expenditures:
Routine maintenance/IT/other $ (431) $ (421) $ (10) (2.4) %
Developments and relocations (172) (220) 48 21.8 %
Acquisition expenditures (57) (187) 130 69.5 %
Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 109 56 53 94.6 %

Other (78) (12) (66) (550.0) %
 $ (630) $ (785) $ 155 19.7 %

Net cash used in financing activities:
Debt (payments) issuances, net $ (11) $ 754 $ (765) (101.5) %
Deferred financing and debt redemption costs — (9) 9 100.0 %
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (268) (244) (24) (9.8) %
Contributions from noncontrolling interests 15 32 (17) (53.1) %
Stock award exercises and other share issuances (37) (60) 23 38.3 %
Share repurchases (802) (1,539) 737 47.9 %
Other (17) (17) — — %
 $ (1,121) $ (1,083) $ (38) (3.5) %

Total number of shares repurchased 8,094,661 13,877,193 (5,782,532) (41.7) %

Free cash flow(1) $ 817 $ 1,133 $ (316) (27.9) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of our free cash flow, see the "Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures" section below.

69

Consolidated cash flows
Consolidated cash flows from operating activities for 2022 and 2021 were $1,565 million and $1,931 million, respectively. The decrease in cash flow from continuing operations was primarily driven by decreased earnings from operations and increases in tax and interest payments, partially offset by timing of working capital items.
Cash flows used for investing activities in 2022 decreased $155 million compared to 2021 primarily due to decreases in acquisition expenditures combined with an increase in proceeds from the sale of self-developed properties, which was principally driven by the sale of one of our self-developed properties.
Cash flows used in financing activities increased $38 million in 2022 compared to 2021. Significant sources of cash during 2022 included a net draw of $165 million on our revolving line of credit. Significant uses of cash during 2022 consisted primarily of regularly scheduled mandatory principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $98 million on Term Loan A and $27 million on Term Loan B-1 and additional required principal payments under other debt arrangements. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2022 we used cash to repurchase 8,094,661 shares of our common stock.
By comparison, 2021 included the issuance of $1,000 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes as an add-on offering to our 4.625% senior notes due 2030 which were issued at an offering price of 101.750% of the principal amount in February 2021. Significant uses of cash during 2021 consisted primarily of the repayment in full of $75 million of borrowings under our revolving line of credit, net payments of regularly scheduled mandatory principal amounts due under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $88 million on Term Loan A and $27 million on Term Loan B-1 and additional required principal payments under other debt arrangements. In addition, we incurred bond issuance costs of approximately $9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021 we used cash to repurchase 13,877,193 shares of our common stock.
Dialysis center capacity and growth
We are typically able to increase our capacity by extending hours at our existing dialysis centers, expanding our existing dialysis centers, relocating our dialysis centers, developing new dialysis centers and by acquiring dialysis centers. The development of a typical new outpatient dialysis center generally requires approximately $2.0 million for leasehold improvements and other capital expenditures. Based on our experience, a new outpatient dialysis center typically opens within a year after the property lease is signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second year after Medicare certification, and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an existing outpatient dialysis center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability and cash flows are generally accelerated and more predictable. To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide management and administrative services to outpatient dialysis centers in which we own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties in return for management fees.
The table below shows the growth in our dialysis operations by number of dialysis centers owned or operated:

---------------------------------------------------------- ----- ------------- ----- ---- ---- ---
 U.S. International
 2022 2021 2022 2021
Number of centers operated at beginning of year 2,815 2,816 339 321
Acquired centers 5 19 11 17
Developed centers 39 42 6 7
Net change in non-owned managed or administered centers(1) (1) 3 5 —
Sold and closed centers(2) (22) (11) (9) (5)
Closed centers(3) (112) (54) (2) (1)
Number of centers operated at end of year 2,724 2,815 350 339

(1)Represents dialysis centers which we manage or provide administrative services to but in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties, including our Asia Pacific joint venture centers.
(2)Represents dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed for which the majority of patients were not retained.
(3)Represents dialysis centers that were closed for which the majority of patients were retained and transferred to one of our other existing outpatient dialysis centers.

70

Stock repurchases
The following table summarizes our common stock repurchases during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021:

---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ---- ------ - ------
 Year ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 (dollars in millions and shares in thousands, except per share data)

Shares 8,095 13,877
Amounts paid $ 788 $ 1,546
Average paid per share $ 97.33 $ 111.41

Subsequent to December 31, 2022, we did not repurchase any shares through February 22, 2023. We retired all shares of common stock held in treasury effective December 31, 2022 and 2021.
See further discussion of our share repurchase activity and authorizations in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
Available liquidity
As of December 31, 2022, our cash balance was $244 million and we held approximately $78 million in short-term investments. At that time we also had $165 million outstanding and $835 million available on our $1.0 billion revolving line of credit under our senior secured credit facilities. Credit available under this revolving line of credit is reduced by the amount of any letters of credit outstanding thereunder, of which there were none as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022 we separately had approximately $109 million in letters of credit outstanding under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility.
See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and their interest rates.
The COVID-19 pandemic and certain economic and marketplace conditions, including inflationary and labor pressures, have driven increased pressure on our cash flows. As of the date of this report, we have not experienced a material deterioration in our liquidity position as a result of COVID-19 or those global economic and market conditions. The ultimate impact of the pandemic and those economic and market conditions will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict.
We believe that our cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, including from amounts available under our senior secured credit facilities and our access to the capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our scheduled debt service under the terms of our debt agreements and other obligations for the foreseeable future, including the next 12 months. Our primary recurrent sources of liquidity are cash from operations and cash from borrowings, which are subject to general, economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as described in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "The level of our current and future debt..."

Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures
The following tables provide reconciliations of adjusted operating income (loss) to operating income (loss) as presented on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis for our U.S. dialysis reportable segment as well as for our U.S. IKC business, our U.S. other ancillary services, our international business, and for our total ancillary services which combines them and is disclosed as our other segments category, in addition to our corporate administrative support. These non-GAAP or "adjusted" measures are presented because management believes these measures are useful adjuncts to, but not alternatives for, our GAAP results.
Specifically, management uses adjusted operating income (loss) to compare and evaluate our performance period over period and relative to competitors, to analyze the underlying trends in our business, to establish operational budgets and forecasts and for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this non-GAAP measure is also useful to investors and analysts in evaluating our performance over time and relative to competitors, as well as in analyzing the underlying trends in our business. We also believe this presentation enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations.
In addition, our effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. excludes noncontrolling owners' income, which primarily relates to non-tax paying entities. We believe this adjusted effective income tax rate is useful to management, investors and analysts in evaluating our performance and establishing expectations for income taxes incurred on our ordinary results attributable to DaVita Inc.

71

Finally, our free cash flow from continuing operations represents net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations less distributions to noncontrolling interests and all capital expenditures (including development capital expenditures, routine maintenance and information technology), plus contributions from noncontrolling interests and proceeds from the sale of self-developed properties. Management uses this measure to assess our ability to fund acquisitions and meet our debt service obligations and we believe this measure is equally useful to investors and analysts as an adjunct to cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations and other measures under GAAP.
It is important to bear in mind that these non-GAAP "adjusted" measures are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, nor as substitutes for, their most comparable GAAP measures.

-------------------------------- ---------------------------- -------- ------------------ ---------- ------------------------ ------------- ----- - --- ------------ - - -- - -- - ---- - ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31, 2022
 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration
 U.S. IKC U.S. Other International Total Consolidated
 (dollars in millions)
Operating income (loss) $ 1,565 $ (125) $ (9) $ 37 $ (97) $ (130) $ 1,339

Center closure charges 86 3 3 89
Severance and other costs 17 — 5 5 1 23

Adjusted operating income (loss) $ 1,668 $ (124) $ (9) $ 44 $ (89) $ (129) $ 1,450

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

-------------------------------- ---------------------------- -------- ------------------ ---------- ------------------------ ------------- ----- - - ------------ - -- - ---- - ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31, 2021
 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration
 U.S. IKC U.S. Other International Total Consolidated
 (dollars in millions)
Operating income (loss) $ 1,975 $ (111) $ 3 $ 42 $ (66) $ (112) $ 1,797
Center closure charges 18 18

Adjusted operating income (loss) $ 1,993 $ (111) $ 3 $ 42 $ (66) $ (112) $ 1,815

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- --- ---- ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 (dollars in millions)
Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 966 $ 1,518
Less: Noncontrolling owners’ income primarily attributable to non-tax paying entities (222) (234)
Income from continuing operations before income taxes attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 744 $ 1,284

Income tax expense for continuing operations $ 198 $ 307
Income tax attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) (1)
Income tax expense from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 197 $ 306

Effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. 26.5 % 23.8 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

72

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 (dollars in millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,565 $ 1,931
Adjustments to reconcile net cash provided by continuing operating activities to free cash flow from continuing operations:
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (268) (244)
Contributions from noncontrolling interests 15 32
Expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology (431) (421)
Expenditures for development (172) (220)
Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 109 56
Free cash flow $ 817 $ 1,133

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

Off-balance sheet arrangements and aggregate contractual obligations
In addition to the debt obligations and operating lease liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, we have commitments associated with letters of credit as well as certain working capital funding obligations associated with our equity investments in nonconsolidated dialysis ventures that we manage and some we manage that are wholly-owned by third parties.
We also have potential obligations to purchase the noncontrolling interests held by third parties in many of our majority-owned dialysis partnerships and other nonconsolidated entities. These obligations are in the form of put provisions that are exercisable at the third-party owners’ discretion within specified periods as outlined in each specific put provision. For additional information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
The following is a summary of these cash contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2022:

------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----- --------- --- --------- ----- ---------- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ------
 2023 2024-2025 2026-2027 Thereafter Total
 (dollars in millions)
Debt and leases:
Long-term debt(1):
Principal payments $ 205 $ 1,599 $ 2,602 $ 4,289 $ 8,695
Interest payments on credit facilities and senior notes 354 701 465 515 2,035
Financing leases(2) 26 57 60 131 274
Operating leases, including imputed interest(2) 493 953 734 1,175 3,355
 $ 1,078 $ 3,310 $ 3,861 $ 6,110 $ 14,359
Partnership interests subject to put provisions:(3)
On-balance sheet:
Noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions 1,129 123 55 42 1,349
Off-balance sheet:
Non-owned and minority owned put provisions 88 3 — — 91
 $ 1,217 $ 126 $ 55 $ 42 $ 1,440

(1)See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and related interest rates.
(2)See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our leases and related interest rates.
(3)Represents amounts for which we are contractually committed, should the outside partner exercise its put option.
As of December 31, 2022 we had outstanding letters of credit in the aggregate amount of approximately $109 million under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility.
As of December 31, 2022 we have outstanding purchase agreements with various suppliers to purchase set amounts of dialysis equipment, parts, pharmaceuticals, and supplies. If we fail to meet the minimum purchase commitments under these contracts during any year, we are required to pay the difference to the supplier. For additional information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.

73

We also have certain potential commitments to provide working capital funding, if necessary, to certain nonconsolidated dialysis businesses that we manage and in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. For additional information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Additionally, we expect our 2023 capital expenditures to be in alignment with 2022 capital expenditures.
In addition, we have approximately $54 million of existing long-term income tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, which are excluded from the table above as reasonably reliable estimates of their timing cannot be made.
Finally, on May 25, 2022, we entered into an agreement with Medtronic, Inc. and one of its subsidiaries (collectively, Medtronic) to form a new, independent kidney care-focused medical device company (NewCo). The transaction is expected to close in 2023, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. At close, we will make a cash payment to Medtronic of approximately $75 million, subject to certain customary adjustments prior to the closing, and will contribute certain other non-cash assets to NewCo valued at approximately $25 million. Additionally, at close, each of DaVita and Medtronic will contribute approximately $200 million in cash to launch NewCo. We also agreed to pay Medtronic additional consideration of up to $300 million if certain regulatory and commercial milestones are achieved between 2024 and 2028.

Contingencies
The information in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report is incorporated by reference in response to this item.

Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments
Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities, contingencies and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions (redeemable equity interests). All significant estimates, judgments and assumptions are developed based on the best information available to us at the time made and are regularly reviewed and updated when necessary. Actual results will generally differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Changes in estimates are reflected in our financial statements in the period of change based upon on-going actual experience trends or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Certain accounting estimates, including those concerning revenue recognition and accounts receivable, fair value estimates for goodwill and noncontrolling interests, accounting for income taxes, and loss contingencies are considered to be critical to evaluating and understanding our financial results because they involve inherently uncertain matters and their application requires the most difficult and complex judgments and estimates. For additional information, see Part II Item 15, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" – Note 1 – "Organization and summary of significant accounting policies" as referred from Part II Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
U.S. dialysis revenue recognition and accounts receivable. There are significant estimating risks associated with the amount of U.S. dialysis revenue that we recognize in a given reporting period. Payment rates are often subject to significant uncertainties related to wide variations in the coverage terms of the commercial healthcare plans under which we receive payments. In addition, ongoing insurance coverage changes, geographic coverage differences, differing interpretations of contract coverage, and other payor issues complicate the billing and collection process. The measurement and recognition of revenue requires the use of estimates of the amounts that will ultimately be realized considering, among other items, retroactive adjustments that may be associated with regulatory reviews, audits, billing reviews and other matters.
Revenues associated with Medicare and Medicaid programs are recognized based on (a) the payment rates that are established by statute or regulation for the portion of the payment rates paid by the government payor (e.g., 80% for Medicare patients) and (b) for the portion not paid by the primary government payor, the estimated amounts that will ultimately be collectible from other government programs providing secondary coverage (e.g., Medicaid secondary coverage), the patient’s commercial health plan secondary coverage, or the patient. Our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare are subject to certain variations under Medicare’s single bundled payment rate system whereby our reimbursements can be adjusted for certain patient characteristics and other variable factors. Our revenue recognition depends upon our ability to effectively capture, document and bill for Medicare’s base payment rate and these other factors. In addition, as a result of the potential range of variations that can occur in our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare under the single bundled payment rate system, our revenue recognition is subject to a greater degree of estimating risk.

74

Commercial healthcare plans, including contracted managed-care payors, are billed at our usual and customary rates; however, revenue is recognized based on estimated net realizable revenue for the services provided. Net realizable revenue is estimated based on contractual terms for the patients covered under commercial healthcare plans with which we have formal agreements, non-contracted commercial healthcare plan coverage terms if known, estimated secondary collections, historical collection experience, historical trends of refunds and payor payment adjustments (retractions), inefficiencies in our billing and collection processes that can result in denied claims for payments, the estimated timing of collections, changes in our expectations of the amounts that we expect to collect and regulatory compliance matters. Determining applicable primary and secondary coverage for our approximately 199,400 U.S. dialysis patients at any given point in time, together with the changes in patient coverages that occur each month, requires complex, resource-intensive processes. Collections, refunds and payor retractions typically continue to occur for up to three years or longer after services are provided.
We generally expect the range of our U.S. dialysis revenue estimating risk to be within 1% of revenue, which can represent as much as approximately 5% of our U.S. dialysis business’s adjusted operating income. Changes in estimates are reflected in the then-current financial statements based on on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Changes in revenue estimates for prior periods are separately disclosed and reported if material to the current reporting period and longer term trend analyses, and have not been significant.
Revenues for laboratory services, which are integrally related to our dialysis services, are recognized in the period services are provided at the estimated net realizable amounts to be received.
Certain fair value estimates. Fair value measurements and estimates affect, or potentially affect, a variety of elements in the Company's financial statements. Two of the elements most significantly impacted by fair value estimates are the Company's goodwill impairment assessments and remeasurements of its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions balance.
Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed for impairment when changes in circumstances warrant and at least annually. An impairment charge is recorded when and to the extent a reporting unit's carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value. Changes in circumstance that may trigger a goodwill impairment assessment for one of our business units can include, among others, changes in the legal environment, addressable market, business strategy, development or business plans, reimbursement structure or rates, operating performance, future prospects, relationships with partners, interest rates and/or market value indications for the subject business. We use a variety of factors to assess changes in the financial condition, future prospects and other circumstances for businesses subject to goodwill impairment assessment. However, these assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a sensitivity summary on the Company's reporting units considered at risk of goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2022.
The Company is also required to remeasure its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions to estimated fair value each reporting period. These estimates also require substantive judgment on meaningful uncertainties concerning this significant balance. See Notes 17 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the Company's approach to these valuations, the variables and uncertainties involved, and the sensitivity of these valuations to changes in a primary aggregate valuation metric.
Accounting for income taxes. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous state and foreign jurisdictions, and changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. The actual impact of any such laws or regulations could be materially different from our current estimates.
Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdictions from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, results of recent operations, and assumptions about the amount of future federal, state, and foreign pre-tax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgments and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. To the extent that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance is established. The allowance is regularly reviewed and updated for changes in circumstances that would cause a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax assets.
Loss contingencies. As discussed in Notes 1 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements, we operate in a highly regulated industry and are party to various lawsuits, claims, qui tam suits, governmental investigations and audits (including,

75

without limitation, investigations or other actions resulting from our obligation to self-report suspected violations of law), contract disputes and other legal proceedings. Assessments of such matters can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. We record accruals for loss contingencies on such matters to the extent that we determine an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for further discussion.

Significant new accounting standards
See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for information regarding certain recent financial accounting standards that have been issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[see Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[see Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) and products. Royalty expense is generally based provisions. of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was w...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Notes 17 and 24]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[Notes 1 and 16]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[see Part II Item 15]:
Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 52

[Part I, Item 3]:
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 48

[PART II

Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part II Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part I Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part II Item 15]:
Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 52

[Part II Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[described in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[as described in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" As described in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, we are party to a senior secured credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), which consists of an up to $1 billion secured revolving line of credit, a secured term loan A facility and a secured term loan B-1 facility. Our long-term indebtedness also includes $4.250 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes.
Our senior secured credit facilities bear, and other indebtedness we may incur in the future may bear, interest at a variable rate. As a result, at any given time interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities and any other variable rate debt could be higher or lower than current levels. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and therefore net income and associated cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.
Our indebtedness levels and the required payments on such indebtedness may also be impacted by developments related to LIBOR replacement. The variable interest rates payable under our senior secured credit facilities have historically been linked to LIBOR as the benchmark for establishing such rates. We expect that the LIBOR benchmark will cease to exist after June 30, 2023. Our senior secured credit facilities include mechanics to facilitate the adoption by us and our lenders of an alternative benchmark rate for use in place of LIBOR and through this mechanism or other amendments or agreements with our lenders we expect to reference a replacement index that measures the cost of borrowing cash overnight, backed by U.S. Treasury securities (Secured Overnight Financing Rate or SOFR) or a variation thereof; however, no assurance can be made that we and our lenders, or any lenders in a subsequent refinancing of our credit facilities, will agree on such an alternative rate and, even if agreed upon, such alternative rate may not perform in a manner similar to LIBOR and may result in interest rates that are higher or lower than those that would have resulted had LIBOR remained in effect, which could impact our cost of capital.
Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts, including, without limitation, any strategic acquisitions or investments we may make in the future, to repurchase our stock at the levels intended or announced and to meet our other liquidity needs such as for working capital or capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash. This depends not only on the success of our business but is also subject to economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurances that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our working capital and other liquidity needs, including those described above. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to service our outstanding indebtedness or to meet our working capital or other liquidity needs, including those described above, we would be required to refinance, restructure, or otherwise amend some or all of such indebtedness, sell assets, change or reduce our intended or announced uses or strategy for capital deployment, including, without limitation, for stock repurchases, reduce capital expenditures, planned expansions or other strategic initiatives, or raise additional cash through the sale of our equity or equity-related securities. We cannot make any assurances that any such refinancing, restructurings, amendments, sales of assets, or issuances of equity or equity-related securities can be accomplished or, if accomplished, will be on favorable terms or would raise sufficient funds to meet these obligations or our other liquidity needs.

50

In addition, we may continue to incur indebtedness in the future, and the amount of that additional indebtedness may be substantial. Although the Credit Agreement includes covenants that could limit our indebtedness, we currently have, and expect to continue to have, the ability to incur substantial additional debt. The risks described in this risk factor could intensify as new debt is added to current debt levels or if we incur any new debt obligations that subject us to restrictive covenants that limit our financial and operational flexibility. Any breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Other risks related to our ability to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and for other intended purposes, include, for example:
•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;
•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate;
•expose us to interest rate volatility that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and our ability to service our indebtedness;
•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and
•limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to refinance existing debt on favorable terms when otherwise available or at all.
Any failure to pay any of our indebtedness when due or any other default under our credit facilities or our other indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could trigger cross default or cross acceleration provisions in our other debt instruments, thereby permitting the holders of that other indebtedness to demand immediate repayment or cease to make future extensions of credit, and, in the case of secured indebtedness, to take possession of and sell the collateral securing such indebtedness to satisfy our obligations.
The borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and senior indentures are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries, and borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our and certain of our domestic subsidiaries']:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

['s existing authorization by $2.0 billion. We are authorized to make purchases from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including without limitation, through accelerated share repurchase transactions, derivative transactions, tender offers, Rule 10b5-1 plans or any combination of the foregoing, depending upon market conditions and other considerations.
As of February 22, 2023, we have a total of $1.596 billion available under the current repurchase authorization for additional share repurchases. Although this share repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date, we remain subject to share repurchase limitations, including under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities.

Item 6.        Reserved

55

Item 7.        Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Forward-looking statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and as such are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "]:
Item 6. [Reserved] 43

['s impact on the CKD patient population and our patient population, including on the mortality of these patients; the availability, acceptance, impact and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, treatments and therapies; the pandemic’s continuing impact on our revenue and non-acquired growth due to lower treatment volumes; the potential negative impact on our commercial mix or the number of patients covered by commercial insurance plans; continued increased COVID-related costs; supply chain challenges of the pandemic on us may persist even after the pandemic subsides. COVID-19 has also intensified certain of the aforementioned general economic and marketplace conditions and developments in the U.S. and global economies, including labor market conditions, inflation and monetary policies, among others. We expect that these conditions will continue to impact our business in 2023.
For additional discussion discussion in Part I Item 1. Business under the headings, "]:
Item 1 Business 1

[" as well as the risk factors in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors, including, among others, the risks under the headings, "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value. Changes in circumstance that may trigger a goodwill impairment assessment for one of our business units can circumstances for businesses subject to goodwill impairment assessment. However, these assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a sensitivity summary on the Company']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

["); how and whether regulators and legislators will

56

respond to the Marietta decision including, without limitation, whether they will issue regulatory guidance or adopt new legislation; how courts will interpret other anti-discriminatory provisions that may apply to restrictive plan designs; whether there could be other potential negative impacts of the Marietta decision; and the timing of each of these items;
•our ability to attract, retain and motivate teammates and our ability to manage operating cost increases or productivity decreases whether due to union organizing activities, legislative or other changes, demand for labor, volatility and uncertainty in the labor market, the current challenging and highly competitive labor market conditions, or other reasons;
•U.S. and global economic and marketplace conditions, interest rates, inflation, unemployment, labor market conditions, and evolving monetary policies, and our ability to respond to these challenging conditions, including among other things our ability to successfully identify cost savings opportunities and to implement cost savings initiatives such as ongoing initiatives that increase our use of third-party service providers to perform certain activities, initiatives that relate to clinic optimization and capacity utilization improvement, and procurement opportunities, among other things;
•our ability to successfully implement our strategies with respect to integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives and home based dialysis in the desired time frame and in a complex, dynamic and highly regulated environment, including, among other things, maintaining our existing business; meeting growth expectations; recovering our investments; entering into agreements with payors, third party vendors and others on terms that are competitive and, as appropriate, prove actuarially sound; structuring operations, agreements and arrangements to comply with evolving rules and regulations; finding, training and retaining appropriate staff; and further developing our integrated care and other capabilities to provide competitive programs at scale;
•a reduction in government payment rates under the Medicare End Stage Renal Disease program, state Medicaid or other government-based programs and the impact of the Medicare Advantage benchmark structure;
•noncompliance by us or our business associates with any privacy or security laws or any security breach by us or a third party involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information;
•legal and compliance risks, such as our continued compliance with complex, and at times, evolving government regulations and requirements;
•the impact of the political environment and related developments on the current healthcare marketplace and on our business, including with respect to the Affordable Care Act, the exchanges and many other core aspects of the current healthcare marketplace, as well as the composition of the U.S. Supreme Court and the current presidential administration and congressional majority;
•changes in pharmaceutical practice patterns, reimbursement and payment policies and processes, or pharmaceutical pricing, including with respect to hypoxia inducible factors, among other things;
•our ability to develop and maintain relationships with physicians and hospitals, changing affiliation models for physicians, and the emergence of new models of care or other initiatives introduced by the government or private sector that, among other things, may erode our patient base and impact reimbursement rates;
•our ability to complete acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions that we might announce or be considering, on terms favorable to us or at all, or to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, or to successfully operate any acquired businesses, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, or to successfully expand our operations and services in markets outside the United States, or to businesses or products outside of dialysis services;
•continued increased competition from dialysis providers and others, and other potential marketplace changes, including without limitation increased investment in and availability of funding to new entrants in the dialysis and pre-dialysis marketplace;
•the variability of our cash flows, including without limitation any extended billing or collections cycles; the risk that we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash in the future to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; and the risk that we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due, on terms favorable to us or at all;

57

•factors that may impact our ability to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and the timing of any such stock repurchases, as well as our use of a considerable amount of available funds to repurchase stock;
•risks arising from the use of accounting estimates, judgments and interpretations in our financial statements;
•impairment of our goodwill, investments or other assets;
•our aspirations, goals and disclosures related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters, including, among other things, evolving regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards, measurements and reporting requirements; the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability standards; and our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent in our labor markets; and
•the other risk factors, trends and uncertainties set forth in Part I, Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in any subsequent reports that we file or furnish with the SEC from time to time.
The following should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements.

58

Company overview
Our principal business is to provide dialysis and related lab services to patients in the United States, which we refer to as our U.S. dialysis business. We also operate our U.S. integrated kidney care (IKC) business, our U.S. other ancillary services, and our international operations, which we collectively refer to as our ancillary services, as well as our corporate administrative support. Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the U.S. for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease (ESRD) or end stage kidney disease (ESKD).
On June 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our prior DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business to Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc. The effects of the DMG sale have been reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented and DMG is not included below in this Management']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" On treatment volume, we continue to face pressure primarily driven by the impact of COVID-19 on the mortality rates of dialysis patients, as well as the direct and indirect impact of COVID-19 on our missed treatment rate and new admissions. We anticipate that this pressure also will be magnified by continued slowing industry growth and continued competitive activity in 2023. On reimbursement rate, we expect growth in aggregate, primarily due to the increase in Medicare payment rates under the ESRD Prospective Payment System as well as a continuing increase in anticipated Medicare Advantage enrollment due to the 21st Century Cures Act, partially offset by a full year of the resumption of Medicare sequestration. On cost, we continue to expect increasing pressure on wage rates and other costs due to the challenging labor market and inflationary conditions and increased severance costs as we focus on efficiencies in our administrative support functions partially offset by continued anticipated savings on pharmaceutical costs and a decrease in depreciation and amortization. We expect to incur significantly less advocacy costs in 2023 than we experienced in 2022. We also expect to continue making investments to expand our ability to offer home-based dialysis service options and further advance our integrated care and value-based care initiatives in 2023. Finally, considerable uncertainty exists surrounding the continued development of the various governmental laws, regulations and other requirements that impact our business.

59

The discussion below includes analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020, in its Part II, Item 7, "]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[' average reimbursement by a productivity-adjusted market basket increase of 3.0% in 2023.
Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a significant driver of our total average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment. Commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) represent approximately 33% of U.S. dialysis patient services revenues.
For discussion of government reimbursement, the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, Medicare Advantage and commercial reimbursement, see the discussion in Part I. Item 1. Business under the heading "]:
Item 1 Business 1

[" For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with commercial payors, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" section below.
U.S. dialysis operating income was negatively impacted by center closure and severance costs, as described above. Operating income and adjusted operating income decreased compared to 2021 primarily due to decreased dialysis treatments and increases in compensation expenses, advocacy costs, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, costs related to travel, depreciation expense related to IT projects and insurance expenses, each described above. Operating income and adjusted operating income were positively impacted by an increase in our average patient service revenue per treatment, as described above, as well as decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs, gains on sale of our self-developed properties and decreases in health benefit expenses and medical supply costs.

Other - Ancillary services
Our other operations include ancillary services that are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2022, these consisted primarily of our U.S. integrated kidney care (IKC) business, certain U.S. other ancillary businesses (including our clinical research programs, transplant software business, and venture investment group), and our international operations.
These ancillary services, including our international operations, generated revenues of approximately $1.101 billion in 2022, representing approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues.
As of December 31, 2022, DaVita IKC provided integrated care and disease management services to approximately 42,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 15,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements. We also expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include, among other things, healthcare services not related to dialysis.
For a discussion of the risks related to IKC and our ancillary services, see the discussion in the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20