================================================================================
CIK: 0000277948
Company Name: CSX CORP
Filing Date: 2023-02-15
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 09:50:18
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition.

Other Information
CSX makes available on its website www.csx.com, free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The information on the CSX website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company has posted its code of ethics on its website, which is also available to any shareholder who requests it. This Form 10-K and other SEC filings made by CSX are also accessible through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

CSX has included the certifications of its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“the Act”) as Exhibit 31, as well as Section 906 of the Act as Exhibit 32 to this Form 10-K report.

For additional information concerning business conducted by the Company during 2022, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.6

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

The risks set forth in the following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Company's forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently does not deem to be material also may materially impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Regulatory, Legislative and Legal

New legislation or regulatory changes could impact the Company's earnings or restrict its ability to independently negotiate prices.
Legislation passed by Congress, new regulations issued by federal agencies or executive orders issued by the President of the United States could significantly affect the revenues, costs, including income taxes, and profitability of the Company's business. In addition, statutes or regulations imposing price constraints or affecting rail-to-rail competition could adversely affect the Company's profitability.

Government regulation and compliance risks may adversely affect the Company's operations and financial results.
The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies, including the STB, FRA, PHMSA, TSA, EPA and other state, provincial and federal regulatory agencies for a variety of economic, health, safety, labor, environmental, tax, legal and other matters. New or modified rules or regulations by these agencies could increase the Company's operating costs, adversely impact revenue or reduce operating efficiencies and affect service performance. Noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations could erode public confidence in the Company and can subject the Company to fines, penalties and other legal or regulatory sanctions.

CSXT, as a common carrier by rail, is required by law to transport hazardous materials, which could expose the Company to significant costs and claims.
A train accident involving the transport of hazardous materials could result in significant claims arising from personal injury, property or natural resource damage, environmental penalties and remediation obligations. Such claims, if insured, could exceed existing insurance coverage or insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Under federal regulations, CSXT is required to transport hazardous materials under the legal duty referred to as the common carrier mandate.

CSXT is also required to comply with regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials. In November 2008, the TSA issued final rules placing significant new security and safety requirements on passenger and freight railroad carriers, rail transit systems and facilities that ship hazardous materials by rail. Noncompliance with these rules can subject the Company to significant penalties and could be a factor in litigation arising out of a train accident. Finally, legislation preventing the transport of hazardous materials through certain cities could result in network congestion and increase the length of haul for hazardous substances, which could increase operating costs, reduce operating efficiency or increase the risk of an accident involving the transport of hazardous materials.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.7

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

The Company may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures.
As part of its railroad and other operations, the Company is subject to various claims and lawsuits related to disputes over commercial practices, labor and unemployment matters, occupational and personal injury claims, property damage, environmental and other matters. The Company may experience material judgments or incur significant costs to defend existing and future lawsuits. Although the Company maintains insurance to cover some of these types of claims and establishes reserves when appropriate, final amounts determined to be due on any outstanding matters may exceed the Company's insurance coverage or differ materially from the recorded reserves. Additionally, the Company could be impacted by adverse developments not currently reflected in the Company's reserve estimates.

Operational, Safety and Business Disruption

An epidemic or pandemic and the initiatives to reduce its transmission could adversely affect the Company's business.
The Company could be materially and adversely affected by a public health crisis, including a widespread epidemic or pandemic. During a health crisis, policies and initiatives may be instituted by the public and private sector to reduce transmission, such as closures of businesses and manufacturing facilities, the promotion of social distancing, the adoption of working from home by companies and institutions, and travel restrictions. These policies or initiatives could adversely affect demand for the commodities and products that the Company transports, including import and export volume.

In addition, initiatives to reduce transmission could result in supply chain disruptions, which could impact volumes and make it more difficult for the Company to serve its customers. Moreover, operations are negatively affected when a significant number of employees are quarantined as the result of exposure to a contagious illness. To the extent a public health crisis adversely affects the Company's business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described herein.

The Company relies on the security, stability and availability of its technology systems to operate its business.
The Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. The security, stability and availability of the Company’s and its key third-party vendors’ technology systems are critical to its ability to operate safely and effectively and to compete within the transportation industry. A successful data breach, cyber-attack, or the occurrence of any similar incident that impacts the Company’s or its key third-party vendors’ information technology systems could result in a service interruption, train accident, misappropriation of confidential or proprietary information (including personal information), process failure, or other operational difficulties. A disruption or compromise of the Company’s information technology systems, even for short periods of time, and any resulting theft or compromise of Company confidential or proprietary information (including personal information), could adversely affect the Company’s business or reputation, create significant legal, regulatory or financial exposure and have a material adverse impact on CSX’s business, financial condition or operations.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.8

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

The Company, its third-party vendors and other companies in the rail and transportation industries have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, data breaches, cyber-attacks and other similar incidents. These incidents may include, among other things, malware, ransomware, distributed denial of service attacks, social engineering, phishing, theft, malfeasance or improper access by employees or third-party vendors, human error, fraud, or other modes of attack or disruption. Attacks of these nature are increasing in frequency, levels of persistence, intensity and sophistication. Further, the Company may be at increased risk of a cyber-attack as a result of being a component of the critical U.S. infrastructure. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities, data breaches, cyber-attacks or other similar incidents. A public health crisis could also increase the risk that the Company or its third-party vendors may experience cybersecurity incidents as a result of employees, third-party vendors and other third parties with which they interact working remotely on less secure systems and environments.

Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its information technology systems, it may not be able to prevent or anticipate all data breaches, cyber-attacks or other similar incidents, detect or react to such incidents in a timely manner or adequately remediate any such incident. While CSX’s security protocols have detected attempts to gain unauthorized access to the Company’s information technology systems, none of such attempts have resulted in any material breach of or disruption to the Company’s systems. For example, CSX has experienced distributed denial of service attacks that have resulted in brief system disruptions, but none have resulted in access to CSX systems. Additionally, despite routine security assessment of the Company’s key third-party vendors, some vendors have experienced cyber-attacks in the past, but none of such attacks have had a material adverse impact on CSX’s business or operations. Due to applicable laws and regulations or contractual obligations, CSX may be held responsible for data breaches, cyber-attacks or other similar incidents attributed to its third-party vendors as they relate to the information CSX shares with them.

Additionally, if CSX is unable to acquire, develop or implement new technology, it may suffer a competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service.

Network or supply chain constraints could have a negative impact on service, operating efficiency or volume of shipments.
CSXT could experience rail network difficulties related to: (i) locomotive or crew shortages; (ii) labor shortages or other service disruptions in the supply chain affecting trucking, ports, handling facilities, customer facilities or other railroads; (iii) unpredictable increases in demand; (iv) extreme weather conditions; (v) regulatory changes resulting in forced access or impacting where and how fast CSXT can transport freight or maintain routes; (vi) reductions in availability of pooled equipment, including chassis; (vii) impacts from changes in network capacity or structure; or (viii) increased passenger activities, which could impact CSXT's operational fluidity, leading to deterioration of service, asset utilization and overall efficiency.

Future acts of terrorism, war or regulatory changes to combat the risk of terrorism may cause significant disruptions in the Company's operations.
Terrorist attacks, along with any government response to those attacks, may adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. CSXT's rail lines, other key infrastructure and information technology systems may be targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror or war. This risk could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. In addition, premiums charged for some or all of the insurance coverage currently maintained by the Company could increase dramatically, or the coverage may no longer be available.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.9

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Furthermore, in response to the heightened risk of terrorism, federal, state and local governmental bodies are proposing and, in some cases, have adopted legislation and regulations relating to security issues that impact the transportation industry. For example, the Department of Homeland Security adopted regulations that require freight railroads to implement additional security protocols when transporting hazardous materials. Complying with these or future regulations could continue to increase the Company's operating costs and reduce operating efficiencies.

Severe weather or other natural occurrences could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures in excess of available insurance coverage.
The Company's operations may be affected by external factors such as severe weather and other natural occurrences, including floods, hurricanes, fires and earthquakes. As a result, the Company's rail network may be damaged, its workforce may be unavailable, fuel costs may rise and significant business interruptions could occur. In addition, the performance of locomotives and railcars could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions. Hurricanes as well as storm and flooding events have impacted the Company's network in the past, leading to interrupted service and damage to track and equipment. Changes in weather patterns caused by climate change are expected to increase the frequency, severity or duration of certain adverse weather conditions.

Insurance maintained by the Company to protect against loss of business and other related consequences resulting from these natural occurrences is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of the Company's damages or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance, if any natural occurrence leads to a catastrophic interruption of service, the Company may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption in operations.

Competitive, Economic and Financial

The Company faces competition from other transportation providers.
The Company experiences competition in pricing, service, reliability and other factors from various transportation providers including railroads and motor carriers that operate similar routes across its service area and, to a less significant extent, barges, ships and pipelines. Other transportation providers generally use public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by governmental entities, while CSXT and other railroads must build and maintain rail networks largely using internal resources. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation such as through the use of automation, autonomy or electrification, or legislation providing for less stringent size or weight restrictions on trucks, could negatively impact the Company's competitive position. Additionally, any future consolidation in the rail industry could materially affect the regulatory and competitive environment in which the Company operates.

Global economic conditions could negatively affect demand for commodities and other freight.
A decline or disruption in general domestic and global economic conditions that affects demand for the commodities and products the Company transports, including import and export volume, could reduce revenues or have other adverse effects on the Company's cost structure and profitability. For example, slower rates of economic growth in Asia, contraction of European economies, and changes in the global supply of seaborne coal or price of seaborne coal have adverse impacts on U.S. export coal volume and result in lower coal revenue for CSX. Additionally, changes to trade agreements or policies could result in reduced import and export volumes due to increased tariffs and lower consumer demand. If the Company experiences significant declines in demand for its transportation services with respect to one or more commodities and products or continues to experience the impacts of inflation, the Company may experience reduced revenue and increased operating costs, workforce adjustments, and other related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.10

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Changing dynamics in the U.S. and global energy markets could negatively impact profitability.
Over time, changing dynamics in the U.S. and global energy markets, including the impacts of regulation and alternative fuel sources, have resulted in lower energy production from coal-fired power plants in CSX's service territory. Changes in natural gas prices, or other factors impacting demand for electricity, could impact future power generation at coal-fired plants, which would affect the Company's domestic coal volumes and revenues.

Weaknesses in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact the Company’s access to capital.
The Company regularly relies on capital markets for the issuance of long-term debt instruments, commercial paper and bank financing from time to time. Instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including credit markets, or the deterioration of the Company’s financial condition due to internal or external factors, could restrict or prohibit access and could increase financing costs. A significant deterioration of the Company’s financial condition could also reduce credit ratings and could limit or affect its access to external sources of capital and increase the costs of short and long-term debt financing.

Availability of Critical Supplies and Labor

The unavailability of critical resources could adversely affect the Company’s operational efficiency and ability to meet demand.
Marketplace conditions for resources like locomotives as well as the availability of qualified personnel, particularly engineers and conductors, could each have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to meet demand for rail service. Although the Company strives to maintain adequate resources and personnel for the current business environment, unpredictable increases in demand for rail services or extreme weather conditions may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular period.

Disruption to a key railroad industry supplier could negatively affect operating efficiency and increase costs.
The capital intensive and unique nature of core rail equipment (including rail, ties, freight cars and locomotives) limits the number of railroad equipment suppliers. If any of the current manufacturers stops production or experiences a supply shortage, CSXT could experience a significant cost increase or material shortage. In addition, a few critical railroad suppliers are foreign and, as such, adverse developments in international relations, new trade regulations, disruptions in international shipping or increases in global demand could make procurement of these supplies more difficult or increase CSXT's costs. Additionally, if a fuel supply shortage were to arise, the Company would be negatively impacted.

Failure to complete negotiations on collective bargaining agreements could result in strikes and/or work stoppages.
Most of CSX's employees are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements are either bargained for nationally by the National Carriers Conference Committee or locally between CSX and the union. Such agreements are negotiated over the course of several years and previously have not resulted in any extended work stoppages. Under the Railway Labor Act's procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods and the possibility of an intervention by the President of the United States), during negotiations neither party may take action until the procedures are exhausted. If, however, CSX is unable to negotiate acceptable agreements, the employees covered by the Railway Labor Act could strike, which could result in loss of business and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.11

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Climate Change and Environmental

The Company’s operations and financial results could be negatively impacted by climate change and regulatory and legislative responses to climate change.
There is potential for operational impacts from changing weather patterns or rising sea levels in the Company's operational territory, which could impact the Company's network or other assets.

Climate change and other emissions-related laws and regulations have been proposed and, in some cases adopted, on the federal, state, provincial and local levels. These final and proposed laws and regulations take the form of restrictions, caps, taxes or other controls on emissions. In particular, the EPA has issued various regulations and may issue additional regulations targeting emissions, including rules and standards governing emissions from certain stationary sources and from vehicles. Any of these pending or proposed laws or regulations, including any proposed or implemented under the Biden administration, could adversely affect the Company's operations and financial results by, among other things: (i) reducing coal-fired electricity generation due to mandated emission standards; (ii) reducing the consumption of coal as a viable energy resource in the United States and Canada; (iii) increasing the Company's fuel, capital and other operating costs and negatively affecting operating and fuel efficiencies; and (iv) making it difficult for the Company's customers in the U.S. and Canada to produce products in a cost competitive manner. Any of these factors could reduce the amount of shipments the Company handles and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations that may result in significant costs.
The Company is subject to wide-ranging federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions into the air, ground and water; the handling, storage, use, generation, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials; the clean-up of hazardous material and petroleum releases and the health and safety of our employees. If the Company violates or fails to comply with these laws and regulations, CSX could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. The Company can also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to any hazardous substances for which CSX is responsible. In certain circumstances, environmental liability can extend to formerly owned or operated properties, leased properties, adjacent properties and properties owned by third parties or Company predecessors, as well as to properties currently owned, leased or used by the Company.

The Company has been, and may in the future be, subject to allegations or findings to the effect that it has violated, or is strictly liable under, environmental laws or regulations, and such violations can result in the Company's incurring fines, penalties or costs relating to the cleanup of environmental contamination. Although the Company believes it has appropriately recorded current and long-term liabilities for known and reasonably estimable future environmental costs, it could incur significant costs that exceed reserves or require unanticipated cash expenditures as a result of any of the foregoing. The Company also may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown or future environmental contamination.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

None

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.12

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Item 2.  Properties

The Company’s properties primarily consist of track and its related infrastructure, locomotives and freight cars and equipment. These categories and the geography of the network are described below.

Track and Infrastructure
Serving 26 states, the District of Columbia, and the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec, the CSXT rail network serves, among other markets, New York, Philadelphia and Boston in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic, the southeast markets of Atlanta, Miami and New Orleans, and the midwestern markets of St. Louis, Memphis and Chicago.

CSXT’s track structure includes mainline track, connecting terminals and yards, track within terminals and switching yards, sidings used for passing trains, track connecting CSXT's track to customer locations and turnouts that divert trains from one track to another. Total track miles, which reflect the size of CSXT’s network that connects markets, customers and western railroads, are greater than CSXT’s approximately 20,000 route miles. At December 2022, the breakdown of track miles was as follows:

----------------------------- ------
 Track
 Miles
Single Mainline Track 19,879
Other Mainline Track 5,662
Terminals and Switching Yards 9,308
Passing Sidings and Turnouts 901
Total 35,750

In addition to its physical track structure, the Company operates numerous yards and terminals for rail and intermodal service. These serve as points of connectivity between the Company and its local customers and as sorting facilities where railcars and intermodal containers are received, classed for destination and placed onto outbound trains, or arrive and are delivered to the customer. The Company’s largest yards and terminals based on 2022 volume (number of railcars or intermodal containers processed) are listed below.

------------------------------------------ -------------
Yards and Terminals Annual Volume
Waycross, GA 931,488
Bedford Park Intermodal Terminal (Chicago) 886,636
Selkirk, NY 636,750
Nashville, TN 627,868
Cincinnati, OH 622,906
Avon, IN (Indianapolis) 574,775
Walbridge, OH (Toledo) 372,880
Fairburn, GA Intermodal Terminal (Atlanta) 358,416
Louisville, KY 352,029
Chicago 59th St. Intermodal Terminal 308,421

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.13

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Network Geography
CSXT’s operations are primarily focused on four major transportation networks and corridors that are defined geographically and by commodity flows below.

Interstate 90 (I-90) Corridor – This CSXT corridor links Chicago and the Midwest to metropolitan areas in New York and New England. This route, also known as the “waterlevel route,” has minimal hills and grades and nearly all of it has two main tracks (referred to as double track). These engineering attributes permit the corridor to support high-speed service across intermodal, automotive and merchandise commodities. This corridor is a primary route for import traffic coming from the far east through western ports moving eastward across the country, through Chicago and into the population centers in the Northeast. The I-90 Corridor is also a critical link between ports in New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania and consumption markets in the Midwest. This route carries goods from all three of the Company’s major rail markets – merchandise, intermodal and coal.

Interstate 95 (I-95) Corridor – The CSXT I-95 Corridor connects Charleston, Jacksonville, Miami and many other cities throughout the Southeast with the heavily populated mid-Atlantic and northeastern cities of Baltimore, Philadelphia and New York. CSXT primarily transports food and consumer products, as well as metals and chemicals along this line. It is the leading rail corridor along the eastern seaboard south of the District of Columbia and provides access to major eastern ports.

Southeastern Corridor – This critical part of the network runs between CSXT’s western gateways of Chicago, St. Louis and Memphis through the cities of Nashville, Birmingham, and Atlanta and markets in the Southeast. The Southeastern Corridor is the premier rail route connecting these key cities, gateways, and markets and positions CSXT to efficiently handle projected traffic volumes of intermodal, automotive and general merchandise traffic. The corridor also provides direct rail service between the coal reserves of the southern Illinois basin and the demand for coal in the Southeast.

Coal Network – The CSXT coal network connects the coal mining operations in the Appalachian mountain region and Illinois basin with industrial areas in the Southeast, Northeast and Mid-Atlantic, as well as many river, lake, and deep water port facilities. The domestic coal market has declined significantly over the last decade and export coal remains subject to a high degree of volatility. CSXT’s coal network remains well positioned to supply utility markets in both the Northeast and Southeast and to transport coal shipments for export outside of the U.S. Most of the export coal the Company transports is used for steelmaking, while the majority of domestic coal the Company ships is used for electricity generation.

See the following page for a map of the CSX Rail Network. Also included on the map, "CSX Operating Agreement" indicates areas within which CSX can operate through trackage rights beyond the CSX network.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.14

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

CSX Rail Network

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.15

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Locomotives
As of December 2022, CSXT owns or long-term leases more than 3,600 locomotives. From time to time, the Company also short-term leases locomotives based on business needs. Freight locomotives are used primarily to pull trains while switching locomotives are used in yards. Auxiliary units are typically used to provide extra traction for heavy trains in hilly terrain. Of owned locomotives, approximately 68% were in active service as of December 31, 2022, and the remainder were in storage to be utilized as needed. Storing locomotives and equipment allows the Company to quickly adjust its active fleet based on demand and other factors while avoiding delays due to supply limitations or excessive lead times to acquire additional equipment. As of December 2022, CSXT’s fleet of owned or long-term leased locomotives consisted of the following types:

----------------- ----------- - --- ------------------ --
 Locomotives % Average Age(years)
Freight 3,194 89 % 23
Switching 237 6 % 45
Auxiliary Units 177 5 % 29
Total locomotives 3,608 100 % 25

Equipment
The Company owns or long-term leases rail equipment, including several types of freight cars and intermodal containers. Of total owned and long-term leased equipment, approximately 91% was in active service as of December 31, 2022, and the remainder were in storage to be utilized as needed. As of December 2022, the Company’s owned and long-term leased equipment consisted of the following:

--------------------- --------------- - --- -
Equipment Number of Units %
Gondolas 18,613 40 %
Multi-level Flat Cars 10,736 23 %
Open-top Hoppers 6,403 14 %
Covered Hoppers 6,366 13 %
Box Cars 3,745 8 %
Flat Cars 565 1 %
Other Cars 596 1 %
Subtotal Freight Cars 47,024 100 %
Containers 19,405
Total Equipment 66,429

At any time, approximately two-thirds of the railcars on the CSXT system are not owned or leased by the Company. Examples of these include railcars owned by other railroads (which are utilized by CSXT), shipper-furnished or private cars (which are generally used only in that shipper’s service), multi-level railcars used to transport automobiles (which are shared between railroads) and double-stack railcars, or well cars (which are industry pooled), that allow for two intermodal containers to be loaded one above the other.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.16

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

    The Company’s revenue-generating equipment, either owned or long-term leased, primarily consists of freight cars and containers as described below.

Gondolas – Support CSXT’s metals markets and provide transport for woodchips and other bulk commodities.  Some gondolas are equipped with special hoods for protecting products like coil and sheet steel.

Multi-level flat cars – Transport finished automobiles and are differentiated by the number of levels: bi-levels for large vehicles such as pickup trucks and SUVs and tri-levels for sedans and smaller automobiles.

Covered hoppers – Have a permanent roof and are segregated based upon commodity density. Lighter bulk commodities such as grain, fertilizer, flour, salt, sugar, clay and lime are shipped in large cars called jumbo covered hoppers. Heavier commodities like cement, ground limestone and industrial sand are shipped in small cube covered hoppers.

Open-top hoppers – Transport heavy dry bulk commodities such as coal, coke, stone, sand, ores and gravel that are resistant to weather conditions.

Box cars – Include a variety of tonnages, sizes, door configurations and heights to accommodate a wide range of finished products, including paper, auto parts, appliances and building materials.  Insulated box cars deliver food products, canned goods, beer and wine.

Flat cars – Used for shipping intermodal containers and trailers or bulk and finished goods, such as lumber, pipe, plywood, drywall and pulpwood.

Other cars – Primarily leased refrigerator cars and slab steel cars.

Containers – Weather-proof boxes used for bulk shipment of freight, primarily in intermodal service.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

    For further details, please refer to Note 8. Commitments and Contingencies of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosure

Not Applicable

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.17

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Executive officers of the Company are elected by the CSX Board of Directors and generally hold office until the next annual election of officers. There are no family relationships or any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which such officer was elected. As of the date of this filing, the executive officers’ names, ages and business experience are:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name and Age Business Experience During Past Five Years
Joseph R. Hinrichs, 56President and Chief Executive Officer Hinrichs, a leader with more than 30 years of experience in the global automotive, manufacturing, and energy sectors, was named President and Chief Executive Officer in September 2022. Hinrichs previously worked at Ford Motor Company from 2000 to 2020, most recently serving as President of Ford's global automotive business. In that role, he led the company’s automotive operations, overseeing Ford’s global business units and the Ford and Lincoln brands. He also led Ford’s automotive skill teams, overseeing product development, purchasing, manufacturing, labor affairs, marketing and sales, government affairs, information technology, sustainability, safety and environmental engineering. Other positions he held at Ford include President of Global Operations, President of the Americas, President of Asia Pacific and Africa, Chairman and CEO of Ford China, and Chairman & CEO of Ford Canada. Over the past four years, Hinrichs has also served in multiple advisory and board roles of various companies.
Sean R. Pelkey, 43Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Pelkey was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in January 2022 after serving as Vice President and Acting Chief Financial Officer since June 2021. Prior to these roles, Pelkey held the role of Vice President Finance & Treasury since 2017. In his current role, he is responsible for all financial aspects of the Company's business including financial and economic analysis, accounting, tax, treasury, real estate and purchasing activities.Prior to 2017, he has held the positions of AVP Capital Markets and Director Performance Analysis. During his 17 years with CSX, Mr. Pelkey has held a variety of other roles, including financial planning and technology finance.
Kevin S. Boone, 45Executive Vice President and Chief Sales & Marketing Officer Boone was named Executive Vice President and Chief Sales & Marketing Officer in June 2021 after serving as Chief Financial Officer since May 2019. In his current role, he is responsible for the commercial organization. Mr. Boone has more than 20 years of experience in finance, accounting, mergers and acquisitions, and transportation performance analysis. He joined CSX in September 2017 as Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Chief Investor Relations Officer and was later named Vice President, Marketing and Strategy leading research and data analysis to advance growth strategies for CSX. Before joining CSX in 2017, Mr. Boone worked as a Senior Equity Research Analyst at Janus Capital. He also served as a Vice President at Morgan Stanley in equity research and an associate at Merrill Lynch in the mergers and acquisitions group.
Jamie J. Boychuk, 45Executive Vice President of Operations Boychuk has served as CSXT's Executive Vice President of Operations since October 2019. In this role, he is responsible for transportation, network operations including terminals, mechanical, engineering and labor relations.Since joining CSXT in 2017, he has held the positions of Senior Vice President of Network, Engineering, Mechanical and Intermodal Operations; Vice President of Scheduled Railroading; and Assistant Vice President of Transportation Support. Mr. Boychuk previously worked at Canadian National Railway, where he served for 20 years in various operational roles of increasing responsibility, including sub-region General Manager.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.18

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name and Age Business Experience During Past Five Years
Stephen Fortune, 53Executive Vice President and Chief Digital and Technology Officer Fortune was named CSX's Executive Vice President and Chief Digital and Technology Officer in April 2022. In this role, he is responsible for leading the Company's technology strategy development and all aspects of CSX's information technology systems operations, including cybersecurity.Prior to joining CSX with nearly 20 years of information technology experience, he spent 30 years at BP, most recently as Chief Information Officer of the global BP group.
Nathan D. Goldman, 65Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer Goldman has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, and Corporate Secretary of CSX since November 2017. In this role, he directs the Company’s legal affairs, government relations, risk management, public safety, environmental, and audit functions.During his 19 years with the Company, Mr. Goldman has previously served as Vice President of Risk Compliance and General Counsel and has overseen work in compliance, risk management and safety programs.
Diana B. Sorfleet, 58Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Sorfleet was named Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in July 2018. In this role, her responsibilities include human resources, people systems and analytics, total rewards, facilities and aviation.During her 11 years with the Company, Ms. Sorfleet has previously served as Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining CSX, she worked in human resources for 20 years.
Angela C. Williams, 48Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Williams has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of CSX since March 2018. She is responsible for financial and regulatory reporting, freight billing and collections, payroll, accounts payable and various other accounting processes.During her 19 years with the Company, she previously served as Assistant Vice President - Assistant Controller and in other various accounting roles. With more than 25 years of experience, Williams held various accounting and auditing positions prior to joining CSX. Ms. Williams is a Certified Public Accountant in the state of Florida.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.19

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information
CSX’s common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which is its principal trading market, and is traded over-the-counter and on exchanges nationwide. The official trading symbol is “CSX.”

Description of Common and Preferred Stock
A total of 5.4 billion shares of common stock are authorized, of which 2,066,350,050 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2022. Each share is entitled to one vote in all matters requiring a vote of shareholders. There are no preemptive rights, which are privileges extended to select shareholders that would allow them to purchase additional shares before other members of the general public in the event of an offering. At January 31, 2023, the latest practicable date that is closest to the filing date, there were 22,453 common stock shareholders of record. The weighted average of common shares outstanding, which was used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, was 2,141 million as of December 31, 2022. (See Note 2, Earnings Per Share.) A total of 25 million shares of preferred stock is authorized, none of which is currently outstanding.

    The following table sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the dividends declared on CSX common stock.

---- ------- ----- --- --- ----- --- ---- ----- - ----- - -----
 Quarter
 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Year
2022 $ 0.100 $ 0.100 $ 0.100 $ 0.100 $ 0.400
2021 $ 0.093 $ 0.093 $ 0.093 $ 0.093 $ 0.372

Stock Performance Graph
The cumulative shareholder returns, assuming reinvestment of dividends, on $100 invested at December 31, 2017 are illustrated on the graph below. The Company references the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index (“S&P 500 ®”), and the Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index, which provide comparisons to a broad-based market index and other companies in the transportation industry.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.20

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
CSX Purchases of Equity Securities

The Company continues to repurchase shares under the $5 billion program announced in July 2022. Total repurchase authority remaining as of December 31, 2022 was $3.3 billion. For more information about share repurchases, see Note 2, Earnings Per Share. Share repurchase activity of $1.0 billion for the fourth quarter 2022 was as follows:

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------------- - -------------
CSX Purchases of Equity Securities for the Quarter
Fourth Quarter Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs
Beginning Balance $ 4,292,997,017
October 1 - October 31, 2022 22,101,430 $ 27.50 22,101,430 3,685,141,410
November 1 - November 30, 2022 6,810,351 29.80 6,810,351 3,482,205,188
December 1 - December 31, 2022 6,710,050 31.33 6,710,050 3,271,977,916
Ending Balance 35,621,831 $ 28.66 35,621,831 $ 3,271,977,916

Item 6.  Reserved

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.21

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

TERMS USED BY CSX

When used in this report, unless otherwise indicated by the context, these terms are used to mean the following:

Car hire - A charge paid by one railroad for its use of cars belonging to another railroad or car owner.

Class I freight railroad - One of the largest line haul freight railroads as determined based on operating revenue; the exact revenue required to be in each class is periodically adjusted for inflation by the Surface Transportation Board. Smaller railroads are classified as Class II or Class III.

Common carrier mandate - A federal mandate that requires U.S. railroads to accommodate reasonable requests from shippers to carry any freight, including hazardous materials.

Demurrage - A charge assessed by railroads for the use of rail cars by shippers or receivers of freight beyond a specified free time.

Department of Transportation ("DOT") - A U.S. government agency with jurisdiction over matters of all modes of transportation.

Depreciation study - Conducted by a third-party specialist and analyzed by management, a periodic statistical analysis of fixed asset service lives, salvage values, accumulated depreciation, and other factors for group assets along with a comparison of similar asset groups at other companies.

Double-stack - Stacking containers two-high on specially equipped cars.

Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) - A U.S. government agency that has regulatory authority with respect to environmental law.

Federal Railroad Administration ("FRA") - The branch of the DOT that is responsible for developing and enforcing railroad safety regulations, including safety standards for rail infrastructure and equipment.

Free cash flow - The calculation of a non-GAAP measure by using net cash provided by operating activities and adjusting for property additions and certain other investing activities. Free cash flow is a measure of cash available for paying dividends, share repurchases and principal reduction on outstanding debt.

Group-life depreciation - A type of depreciation in which assets with similar useful lives and characteristics are aggregated into groups. Instead of calculating depreciation for individual assets, depreciation is calculated as a whole for each group.

Incidental charges - Charges for switching, demurrage, storage, etc.

Intermodal - A flexible way of transporting freight over highway, rail and water without being removed from the original transportation equipment, namely a container or trailer.

Mainline - The main track thoroughfare, exclusive of terminals, yards, sidings and turnouts.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.22

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”) - An agency within the DOT that, together with the FRA, has broad jurisdiction over railroad operating standards and practices, including hazardous materials requirements.

Positive Train Control ("PTC") - An interoperable train control system designed to prevent train-to-train collisions, over-speed derailments, incursions into established work-zone limits, and train diversions onto another set of tracks.

Revenue adequacy - The achievement of a rate of return on investment at least equal to the industry cost of investment capital, as measured by the STB.

Shipper - A customer shipping freight via rail.

Siding - Track adjacent to the mainline used for passing trains.

Staggers Act of 1980 - Congressional law that significantly deregulated the rail industry, replacing the regulatory structure in existence since the 1887 Interstate Commerce Act. Where previously rates were controlled by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Staggers Act allowed railroads to establish their own rates for shipments, enhancing their ability to compete with other modes of transportation.

Surface Transportation Board ("STB") - An independent governmental adjudicatory body administratively housed within the DOT, responsible for the economic regulation of interstate surface transportation within the United States.

Switching - Putting cars in a specific order, placing cars for loading, retrieving empty cars or adding or removing cars from a train at an intermediate point.

Terminal - A facility, typically owned by a railroad, for the handling of freight and for the breaking up, making up, forwarding and servicing of trains.

Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) - A component of the Department of Homeland Security with broad authority over railroad operating practices that may have homeland security implications.

TTX Company ("TTX") - A company that provides its owner-railroads with standardized fleets of intermodal, automotive and general use railcars at time and mileage rates. CSX owns about 20 percent of TTX's common stock, and the remainder is owned by the other leading North American railroads and their affiliates.

Turnout - A track that diverts trains from one track to another.

Yard - A system of tracks, other than main tracks and sidings, used for making up trains, storing cars and other purposes.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.23

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
2022 HIGHLIGHTS
• Revenue of $14.9 billion increased $2.3 billion or 19% versus the prior year.
• Expenses of $8.8 billion increased $1.9 billion or 27% year over year.
• Operating income of $6.0 billion increased $429 million or 8% year over year.
• Operating ratio of 59.5% increased 420 basis points from 55.3%.
• Earnings per diluted share of $1.95 increased $0.27 or 16% year over year.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following section generally discusses the Company's results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. A discussion regarding results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, can be found in Part II, Item 7 of CSX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2022.

2022 vs. 2021 Results of Operations

------------------------------ ----------- ------ ---- ------- -------- ------ -------- ----- ----- --- -- -
 Years Ended
 2022 2021 $ Change % Change
(Dollars in Millions)
Revenue $ 14,853 $ 12,522 $ 2,331 19 %
Expense
Labor and Fringe 2,861 2,550 (311) (12)
Purchased Services and Other 2,685 2,135 (550) (26)
Fuel 1,626 913 (713) (78)
Depreciation and Amortization 1,500 1,420 (80) (6)
Equipment and Other Rents 396 364 (32) (9)
Gains on Property Dispositions (238) (454) (216) (48)
Total Expense 8,830 6,928 (1,902) (27)
Operating Income 6,023 5,594 429 8
Interest Expense (742) (722) (20) (3)
Other Income - Net 133 79 54 68
Income Tax Expense (1,248) (1,170) (78) (7)
Net Earnings $ 4,166 $ 3,781 $ 385 10

Earnings Per Diluted Share $ 1.95 $ 1.68 $ 0.27 16 %
Operating Ratio 59.5 % 55.3 % (420) bps

Appointment of New Chief Executive Officer
On September 15, 2022, CSX announced that, as part of a planned succession process, its Board of Directors appointed Joseph R. Hinrichs as the Company’s new President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors, effective September 26, 2022.

Acquisition of Pan Am Systems, Inc.
On June 1, 2022, CSX acquired Pan Am for a purchase price of $600 million funded through a combination of common stock valued at $422 million and cash totaling $178 million. Accordingly, the consolidated 2022 results include the results of Pan Am's operations after the acquisition date. For further details, refer to Note 17, Business Combinations.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.24

CSX CORPORATION
PART II

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------- ----- ---------------- ---- - ---- ----- -------- ----- - ------ --- -------- -- ----- - ----- -- ----- -- -
Volume and Revenue (Unaudited)
Volume (Thousands of units); Revenue (Dollars in Millions); Revenue Per Unit (Dollars)
 Volume Revenue Revenue Per Unit
 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change

Chemicals 641 659 (3) % $ 2,584 $ 2,421 7 % $ 4,031 $ 3,674 10 %
Agricultural and Food Products 481 467 3 % 1,664 1,461 14 % 3,459 3,128 11 %
Automotive 338 318 6 % 1,054 886 19 % 3,118 2,786 12 %
Minerals 337 325 4 % 658 587 12 % 1,953 1,806 8 %
Forest Products 291 296 (2) % 996 918 8 % 3,423 3,101 10 %
Metals and Equipment 267 277 (4) % 828 796 4 % 3,101 2,874 8 %
Fertilizers 203 229 (11) % 455 470 (3) % 2,241 2,052 9 %
Total Merchandise 2,558 2,571 (1) % 8,239 7,539 9 % 3,221 2,932 10 %
Intermodal 2,963 2,976 — % 2,306 2,039 13 % 778 685 14 %
Coal 697 706 (1) % 2,434 1,790 36 % 3,492 2,535 38 %
Trucking (a) — — — % 966 410 136 % — — — %
Other — — — % 908 744 22 % — — — %
Total 6,218 6,253 (1) % $ 14,853 $ 12,522 19 % $ 2,389 $ 2,003 19 %

(a) Effective third quarter 2021, Trucking revenue is comprised of revenue from the operations of Quality Carriers, which was acquired by CSX effective July 1, 2021.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.25

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Revenue
Total revenue increased by $2.3 billion in 2022, or 19%, when compared to the previous year primarily due to higher fuel recovery, pricing gains that include the benefit of higher export coal benchmark rates, and the inclusion of Quality Carriers’ results.

Merchandise Volume
Chemicals - Decreased due to lower shipments of crude oil and other energy-related commodities as well as waste.

Agricultural and Food Products – Increased as a result of higher shipments of ethanol, sweeteners and vegetable oils, and grain.

Automotive - Increased due to higher North American vehicle production as semiconductor availability has improved.

Minerals - Increased due to higher shipments of aggregates driven by construction demand.

Forest Products – Decreased due to lower shipments of pulpboard and building products.

Metals and Equipment - Decreased primarily due to lower steel shipments, partially offset by higher scrap shipments and equipment moves.

Fertilizers - Decreased due to declines in short-haul and long-haul phosphate shipments.

Intermodal Volume
Lower domestic shipments due to continued supply-side constraints, more subdued seasonal demand than prior year and a softening truck market were mostly offset by increased international shipments.

Coal Volume
Domestic coal decreased due to lower shipments of utility coal, including the impacts of limited coal availability during mine disruptions during the year, as well as lower steel and industrial shipments. Export coal decreased due to lower shipments of thermal coal, partially driven by reduced capacity at Curtis Bay coal pier due to an outage at a portion of the facility. The facility is now back at full capacity.

Trucking Revenue
Trucking revenue increased $556 million versus prior year due to the inclusion of Quality Carriers’ results and higher fuel surcharge.

Other Revenue
Other revenue was $164 million higher than prior year driven by increases in revenue for intermodal storage and equipment usage, increases in demurrage and higher affiliate revenue.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.26

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Expense
In 2022, total expenses increased $1.9 billion, or 27%, compared to prior year. Descriptions of each expense category as well as significant year-over-year changes are described below.

Labor and Fringe expenses include employee wages and related payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension, other post-retirement benefits and incentive compensation. These expenses increased $311 million due to the following items:
•The impacts of agreements reached with labor unions as well as inflation totaled $199 million. Of the total, $32 million relates to labor and benefits in prior years.
•The inclusion of Quality Carriers' operations for the full year in 2022 versus a portion of the year in 2021 resulted in increased costs of $74 million.
•Incentive compensation costs decreased $29 million primarily due to the impact of accelerated expense for eligible employees in the prior year.
•Other costs increased $67 million primarily due to hiring and retention costs, the inclusion of Pan Am's operations and other non-significant items.

Purchased Services and Other expenses consist primarily of contracted services to maintain infrastructure and equipment, terminal and pier services, purchased trucking and other transportation, and professional services. This category also includes costs related to materials, travel, casualty claims, environmental remediation, train accidents, property and sales tax, utilities and other items. Total purchased services and other expenses increased $550 million driven by the following:
•The inclusion of Quality Carriers' operations for the full year in 2022 versus a portion of the year in 2021 drove $280 million of additional costs.
•Higher operating support costs, primarily due to inflation, higher intermodal terminal costs and an increased active locomotive fleet, drove an increase of $182 million.
•Adjustments to environmental reserves resulted in $21 million higher expense.
•All other costs increased $67 million primarily due to several non-significant items including Pan Am's operations and acquisition-related costs.

Fuel expense includes locomotive diesel fuel as well as non-locomotive fuel. This expense is largely driven by the market price and locomotive consumption of diesel fuel. Fuel expense increased $713 million primarily due to a 66% price increase in locomotive fuel prices and the inclusion of non-locomotive fuel used for trucking.

Depreciation expense primarily relates to recognizing the costs of capital assets, such as locomotives, railcars and track structure, over their respective useful lives, which are reviewed periodically as part of depreciation studies. This expense is impacted primarily by the capital expenditures made each year. Depreciation expense increased $80 million primarily due to a larger net asset base, which includes Quality Carriers' assets, as well as the impacts of a 2022 equipment depreciation study.

Equipment and Other Rents expense includes rent paid for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies, net of rents received by CSXT for use of its equipment. This category of expenses also includes expenses for short-term and long-term leases of locomotives, railcars, containers, tractors and trailers, offices and other rentals. These expenses increased $32 million primarily due to increased car hire costs as well as the addition of Quality Carriers' costs. Car hire costs increased due to higher days per load and inflation, partially offset by lower volume.

Gains on Property Dispositions decreased to $238 million in 2022 from $454 million in 2021 primarily due to lower gains from the sale of property rights to the Commonwealth of Virginia. Related to this transaction, CSX recognized gains of $144 million in 2022 and $349 million in 2021.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.27

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Interest Expense
Interest Expense includes interest on long-term debt, equipment obligations and finance leases. Interest expense increased $20 million primarily as a result of higher average debt balances, partially offset by increased capitalized interest.

Other Income - Net
Other Income - Net includes investment gains, losses and interest income, as well as components of net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit cost and other non-operating activities. Other income increased $54 million primarily due to higher interest income, driven by increased rates, and an increase in net pension benefit credits during 2022.

Income Tax Expense
Income Tax Expense increased $78 million primarily due to higher earnings before income taxes, partially offset by favorable adjustments to deferred state taxes and favorable state legislative changes.

Net Earnings and Earnings per Diluted Share
Net Earnings increased $385 million to $4.2 billion, and earnings per diluted share increased $0.27 to $1.95, due to the factors mentioned above. Average shares outstanding was lower as a result of share repurchase activity during the year and had a favorable impact on earnings per diluted share.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.28

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
NON-GAAP MEASURES (Unaudited)
CSX reports its financial results in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). CSX also uses certain non-GAAP measures that fall within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G and Regulation S-K Item 10(e), which may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparison to prior reported results. Non-GAAP measures do not have standardized definitions and are not defined by GAAP. Therefore, CSX’s non-GAAP measures are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. The presentation of these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or as superior to the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to corresponding GAAP measures are below.

Free Cash Flow
Management believes that free cash flow is useful to investors as it is important in evaluating the Company’s financial performance. More specifically, free cash flow measures cash generated by the business after reinvestment. This measure represents cash available for both equity and bond investors to be used for dividends, share repurchases or principal reduction on outstanding debt. Free cash flow is calculated by using net cash from operations and adjusting for property additions and proceeds from property dispositions. This measure should be considered in addition to, rather than a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. Free cash flow before dividends decreased $101 million year-over-year to $3.7 billion primarily due to higher property additions and lower proceeds and advances from property dispositions, mostly attributable to the sale of property rights to the Commonwealth of Virginia. These decreases were partially offset by higher net cash provided by operating activities.

The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure).

------------------------------------------------ ----------- ----- ---- ------- - -----
 Years Ended
 2022 2021
(Dollars in Millions)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 5,619 $ 5,099
Property Additions (2,133) (1,791)
Proceeds and Advances from Property Dispositions 246 529
Other Investing Activities (a) n/a (4)
Free Cash Flow, before Dividends (Non-GAAP) $ 3,732 $ 3,833

(a) Effective first quarter 2022, the results of other investing activities are no longer included in free cash flow. Prior year has not been restated as the change is immaterial.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.29

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
OPERATING STATISTICS (Estimated)
Certain operating statistics are estimated and can continue to be updated as actuals settle. The methodology for calculating train velocity, dwell, cars online and trip plan performance differs from that used by the Surface Transportation Board. The Company will continue to report these metrics to the Surface Transportation Board using the prescribed methodology.

-------------------------------------- ------------ - ---- ------- ---------------------------- ---- -
 Fiscal Years
 2022 2021 Improvement/ (Deterioration)
Operations Performance
Train Velocity (Miles per hour)(a) 16.1 17.9 (10) %
Dwell (Hours)(a) 11.3 10.7 (6) %
Cars Online(a) 138,074 131,564 (5) %
On-Time Originations(a) 60 % 75 % (20) %
On-Time Arrivals(a) 52 % 66 % (21) %
Carload Trip Plan Performance(a) 64 % 69 % (7) %
Intermodal Trip Plan Performance(a) 90 % 87 % 3 %
Fuel Efficiency 0.99 0.96 (3) %

Revenue Ton-Miles (Billions)
Merchandise 126.0 126.3 — %
Coal 33.8 35.4 (5) %
Intermodal 30.0 31.5 (5) %
Total Revenue Ton-Miles 189.8 193.2 (2) %

Total Gross Ton-Miles (Billions) 375.5 376.0 — %

Safety
FRA Personal Injury Frequency Index(a) 0.96 0.96 — %
FRA Train Accident Rate(a) 3.18 3.22 1 %

(a) These metrics do not include results from the network acquired from Pan Am. These metrics will be updated to include the Pan Am network results as data becomes available.

Key Performance Measures Definitions:
Train Velocity - Average train speed between origin and destination in miles per hour (does not include locals, yard jobs, work trains or passenger trains). Train velocity measures the profiled schedule of trains (from departure to arrival and all interim time), and train profiles are periodically updated to align with a changing operation.
Dwell - Average amount of time in hours between car arrival to and departure from the yard.
Cars Online - Average number of active freight rail cars on lines operated by CSX, excluding rail cars that are being repaired, in storage, those that have been sold, or private cars dwelling at a customer location more than one day.
On-Time Originations - Percent of scheduled road trains that depart the origin yard on-time or ahead of schedule.
On-Time Arrivals - Percent of scheduled road trains that arrive at the destination yard on-time to within two hours of scheduled arrival. Carload Trip Plan Performance - Percent of measured cars destined for a customer that arrive at or ahead of the original estimated time of arrival, notification or interchange (as applicable).
Intermodal Trip Plan Performance - Percent of measured containers destined for a customer that arrive at or ahead of the original estimated time of arrival, notification or interchange (as applicable).
Fuel Efficiency - Gallons of locomotive fuel per 1,000 gross ton-miles.
Revenue Ton-Miles (RTM's) - The movement of one revenue-producing ton of freight over a distance of one mile.
Gross Ton-Miles (GTM's) - The movement of one ton of train weight over one mile. GTM's are calculated by multiplying total train weight by distance the train moved. Total train weight is comprised of the weight of the freight cars and their contents.
FRA Personal Injury Frequency Index - Number of FRA-reportable injuries per 200,000 man-hours.
FRA Train Accident Rate - Number of FRA-reportable train accidents per million train-miles.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.30

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
The Company is committed to continuous improvement in safety and service performance through training, innovation and investment. Training and safety programs are designed to prevent incidents that can adversely impact employees, customers and communities. Technological innovations that can detect and avoid many types of human factor incidents are designed to serve as an additional layer of protection for the Company's employees. Continued capital investment in the Company's assets, including track, bridges, signals, equipment and detection technology also supports safety performance.

The Company remains focused on safety, service, and controlling costs. Train velocity declined 10% relative to 2021. Dwell increased by 6% and cars online increased 5% in 2022. Compared to 2021, intermodal trip plan performance improved 3%, while carload trip plan performance decreased 7%. CSX has seen an improvement in service metrics in the last quarter of 2022 and expects that trend to continue in 2023.

From a safety perspective, the FRA personal injury index was flat compared to prior year while the train-accident rate improved by 1%. Safety remains a top priority at CSX, and the Company is committed to reducing risk and enhancing the overall safety of its employees, customers and communities in which the Company operates.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Liquidity is a company’s ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet both current and future needs for obligations as they mature and to provide for planned capital expenditures, including those to address regulatory and legislative requirements. To have a complete picture of a company’s liquidity, its sources and uses of cash, balance sheet and external factors should be reviewed.

Significant Cash Flows
The following charts highlight the operating, investing and financing components of the change in cash and cash equivalents for operating, investing and financing activities for full years 2022 and 2021.

In 2022, the Company generated $5.6 billion of cash from operating activities, which was $520 million more than prior year primarily driven by higher cash-generating income, partially offset by less favorable working capital activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.1 billion, an increase in net spend of $254 million from the prior year primarily as a result of higher property additions and lower proceeds and advances from property dispositions, partially offset by decreased costs for business acquisitions. Cash used in financing activities was $3.8 billion, which represents a decrease in net spend of $343 million from the prior year mostly driven by the issuance of long-term debt as well as lower repayments of debt, partially offset by higher share repurchases.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.31

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Sources of Cash and Liquidity
The Company has multiple sources of liquidity, including cash generated from operations and financing sources. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC on February 16, 2022, which may be used to issue debt or equity securities at CSX’s discretion, subject to market conditions and CSX Board authorization. While CSX seeks to give itself flexibility with respect to cash requirements, there can be no assurance that market conditions would permit CSX to sell such securities on acceptable terms at any given time, or at all. In 2022, CSX issued $2.0 billion of long-term debt. See Note 10, Debt and Credit Agreements for more information.

CSX has access to a $1.2 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility backed by a diverse syndicate of banks that expires in March 2024. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no outstanding balances under this facility. The Company also has a commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility, under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no outstanding debt under the commercial paper program.

Uses of Cash
CSX uses current cash balances for general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures, working capital requirements, reduction or refinancing of outstanding indebtedness, redemptions and repurchases of CSX common stock, dividends to shareholders, acquisitions and other business opportunities, and contributions to the Company's qualified pension plan.

In 2022, CSX continued to invest in its business to create long-term value for shareholders. The Company is committed to maintaining and improving its existing infrastructure and to positioning itself for long-term, profitable growth through optimizing network and terminal capacity. Funds used for property additions are further described below.

-------------------------------------------- ----------- ----- ---- ----- ----- ---
 Years Ended
Capital Expenditures (Dollars in Millions) 2022 2021
Track $ 1,000 $ 876
Bridges, Signals and Other 673 567
Total Infrastructure 1,673 1,443
Strategic Projects and Commercial Facilities 251 194
Locomotives 104 89
Freight Cars 75 29
Regulatory (including PTC) 30 36
Total Capital Expenditures $ 2,133 1,791

Planned capital investments for 2023 are expected to be approximately $2.3 billion. Of the 2023 investment, approximately 75% is expected to be used to sustain the core infrastructure and operating equipment. The remaining amounts will be used to promote profitable growth, including projects supporting service enhancements and productivity initiatives. CSX intends to fund capital investments primarily through cash generated from operations.

CSX is continually evaluating market and regulatory conditions that could affect the Company’s ability to generate sufficient returns on capital investments. CSX may revise its future estimates for capital spending as a result of changes in business conditions, tax legislation or the enactment of new laws or regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Form 10-K).

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.32

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
CSX is committed to returning cash to shareholders. Capital structure, capital investments and cash distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, are reviewed at least annually by the Board of Directors. On February 14, 2023, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a 10% increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.11 per common share effective March 2023. Management's assessment of market conditions and other factors guides the timing and volume of repurchases. Future share repurchases are expected to be funded by cash on hand, cash generated from operations and debt issuances.

Material Changes in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Working Capital
CSX's balance sheet reflects its strong capital base and the impact of CSX's balanced approach in deploying capital for the benefit of its shareholders, which includes investments in infrastructure, dividend payments and share repurchases. Further, CSX is well positioned from a liquidity standpoint. The Company ended the year with $2.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.

Total assets as well as total liabilities and shareholders' equity increased $1.4 billion from prior year end. The increase in total assets was primarily due to a $1.2 billion increase in net properties and a $193 million increase in investments in affiliates and other companies, partially offset by a reduction in cash of $281 million. The increase in net properties was primarily attributable to capital expenditures as well as fixed assets acquired as part of the Pan Am transaction. In addition, the increase in investments in affiliates and other companies includes the impact of the acquired interest in Pan Am Southern, LLC as well as higher values of several affiliates. See Note 17, Business Combinations, for more details on purchase accounting.

Total liabilities increased $2.3 billion from prior year end primarily due to the issuance of $2.0 billion in long-term debt and a $186 million increase in deferred taxes due to accelerated tax depreciation and the impact of the Pan Am acquisition. These increases were partially offset by debt repayments of $186 million. Total shareholders' equity decreased $875 million from prior year end primarily driven by share repurchases of $4.7 billion and dividends paid of $852 million, partially offset by net earnings of $4.2 billion and $422 million of common stock issued to acquire Pan Am.

Working capital is considered a measure of a company’s ability to meet its short-term needs. CSX had a working capital surplus of $1.4 billion at December 2022 and $1.6 billion at December 2021, a decrease of $262 million. Current assets decreased primarily driven by the net decline in cash of $281 million described above, partially offset by the $165 million increase in accounts receivable. Current liabilities increased primarily due to the $167 million increase in accounts payable.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.33

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
The Company’s working capital balance varies due to factors such as the timing of scheduled debt payments and changes in cash and cash equivalent balances. Although the Company currently has a surplus, a working capital deficit is not unusual for CSX or other companies in the industry and does not indicate a lack of liquidity. The Company continues to maintain adequate current assets to satisfy current liabilities and maturing obligations when they come due. Furthermore, CSX has sufficient financial capacity, including its revolving credit facility, commercial paper program and shelf registration statement to manage its day-to-day cash requirements and any anticipated obligations. The Company from time to time accesses the credit markets for additional liquidity.

Completed Transactions
Acquisition of Pan Am Systems, Inc.
On June 1, 2022, CSX completed its acquisition of Pan Am. The closing price of $600 million was funded through a combination of common stock valued at $422 million and cash totaling $178 million, subject to certain customary purchase price adjustments. Total cash consideration paid to acquire the business includes a $30 million deposit paid in fourth quarter 2020. For further details, refer to Note 17, Business Combinations.

Acquisition of Quality Carriers, Inc.
On July 1, 2021, CSX acquired Quality Carriers, Inc. for a purchase price of $544 million in cash. This transaction was funded by cash on hand. For further details, refer to Note 17, Business Combinations.

Sale of Property Rights to the Commonwealth of Virginia
On March 26, 2021, the Company entered into a comprehensive agreement to sell certain property rights in three CSX-owned line segments to the Commonwealth of Virginia (“Commonwealth”) over three phases for a total of $525 million. As of December 31, 2022, all three phases are closed. Gains and proceeds in 2022 and 2021 related to this transaction are summarized in the following table. For further details, refer to Note 6, Properties.

--------------------- ----------- ---- --- - ---
 Years Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Gains $ 144 $ 349
Proceeds 125 400

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.34

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Credit Ratings
Credit ratings reflect an independent agency’s judgment on the likelihood that a borrower will repay a debt obligation at maturity. The ratings reflect many considerations, such as the nature of the borrower’s industry and its competitive position, the size of the company, its liquidity and access to capital and the sensitivity of a company’s cash flows to changes in the economy. The two largest rating agencies, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), use alphanumeric codes to designate their ratings. The highest quality rating for long-term credit obligations is AAA and Aaa for S&P and Moody’s, respectively. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency.

The cost and availability of unsecured financing are materially affected by CSX's long-term credit ratings. CSX's credit ratings remained stable during 2022. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, S&P's long-term rating on CSX was BBB+ (Stable), and Moody's was Baa1 (Stable). Ratings of BBB- and Baa3 or better by S&P and Moody’s, respectively, reflect ratings on debt obligations that fall within a band of credit quality considered to be investment grade. If CSX's credit ratings were to decline to below investment-grade levels, the Company could experience significant increases in its interest cost for new debt. In addition, a decline in CSX’s credit ratings to below investment grade levels could adversely affect the market’s demand, and thus the Company’s ability to readily issue new debt. The Company is committed to maintaining an investment-grade credit profile.

Guaranteed Notes Issued By CSXT
In 2007, CSXT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSX Corporation, issued in a registered public offering $381 million of secured equipment notes maturing in 2023. CSX Corporation has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the notes. At CSXT’s option, CSXT may redeem any or all of the notes, in whole or in part, at any time, at the redemption price including premium. In the case of loss or destruction of any item of equipment securing the notes, if CSXT does not substitute another item of equipment for the item suffering such loss or destruction, CSXT will be required to redeem the notes in part at par. The guarantee of the notes will rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future senior obligations of CSX Corporation and will be effectively subordinated to all future secured indebtedness of CSX Corporation to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness. The guarantee is subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain customary conditions. As of December 31, 2022, the principal balance of these secured equipment notes was $139 million.

In accordance with SEC rules, including amendments adopted in 2020, CSX is not required to present separate condensed consolidating financial information for wholly-owned subsidiaries who issued or guaranteed notes. Additionally, presentation of combined summary financial information regarding subsidiary issuers and guarantors is not required because the assets, liabilities and results of operations of the combined issuers and guarantors of the notes are not materially different from the corresponding amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.35

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, OTHER COMMITMENTS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
Contractual Obligations
CSX is party to contractual arrangements that obligate the Company to make future cash payments. These obligations impact the Company’s liquidity and capital resource needs. The Company’s contractual obligations primarily consist of long-term debt and related interest payments, purchase commitments, leases, other-post employment benefits and agreements with Conrail.

•As of December 31, 2022, the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities. See Note 10, Debt and Credit Agreements, for additional information related to future debt payments. Future interest payments associated with outstanding debt total $14.8 billion, with $771 million payable in 2023.
•Purchase commitments consist of CSX’s long-term locomotive maintenance program and other commitments to purchase technology, communications, railcar maintenance and other services. See Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information about future payments related to purchase commitments.
•Capital expenditures include investments related to public-private partnerships. These partnership investments are typically for projects that are partially or wholly reimbursed to CSX through government awards or other funding sources. Project contribution commitments that are not reimbursable total $80 million as of December 31, 2022.
•The Company’s leases include property, equipment, and line leases. See Note 7, Leases, for additional information about future payments related to leases.
•Other post-employment benefits include estimated other post-retirement medical and life insurance payments and payments under non-qualified pension plans that are unfunded. See Note 9, Employee Benefit Plans, for additional information about future payments under such plans.
•Conrail owns rail infrastructure and operates for the joint benefit of CSX and NS. This is known as the shared asset area. Conrail charges fees for right-of-way usage, equipment rentals and transportation, switching and terminal service charges in the shared asset area. See Note 15, Investment in Affiliates and Related-Party Transactions, for additional information about future payments related to agreements with Conrail.

Other Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Other commitments total $178 million and primarily consist of guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds, none of which are individually significant. These off-balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

LABOR AGREEMENTS
Approximately 17,100 of the Company's approximately 22,500 employees are members of a rail labor union. As of December 2, 2022, all 12 rail unions at CSX that participated in national bargaining were covered by national agreements with the Class I railroads and CSX-specific agreements that will remain in effect through December 31, 2024.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.36

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires that management make estimates in reporting the amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and certain revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates. These estimates and assumptions are discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis. Significant estimates using management judgment are made for the following areas:
•personal injury and environmental reserves;
•pension plan accounting;
•depreciation policies for assets under the group-life method; and
•goodwill and other intangible assets.

Personal Injury and Environmental Reserves
Personal Injury
Personal Injury reserves of $126 million and $118 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively, represent liabilities for employee work-related and third-party injuries. CSXT retains an independent actuary to assist management in assessing the value of personal injury claims. The methodology used by the actuary includes a development factor to reflect growth or reduction in the value of these personal injury claims. It is based largely on CSXT's historical claims and settlement experience. Actual results may vary from estimates due to the number, type and severity of the injury, costs of medical treatments and uncertainties in litigation. For additional details, including a description of our related accounting policies, see Note 5, Casualty, Environmental and Other Reserves, in the consolidated financial statements.

Environmental
Environmental reserves were $161 million and $108 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Company is a party to various proceedings related to environmental issues, including administrative and judicial proceedings involving private parties and regulatory agencies. The Company has been identified as a potentially responsible party at approximately 240 environmentally impaired sites. The Company reviews its potential liability with respect to each site identified, giving consideration to a number of factors such as:
•type of clean-up required;
•nature of the Company’s alleged connection to the location (e.g., generator of waste sent to the site or owner or operator of the site);
•extent of the Company’s alleged connection (e.g., volume of waste sent to the location and other relevant factors); and
•number, connection and financial viability of other named and unnamed potentially responsible parties at the location.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.37

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

Conditions that are currently unknown could, at any given location, result in additional exposure, the amount and materiality of which cannot presently be reasonably estimated. For additional details, including a description of our related accounting policies, see Note 5, Casualty, Environmental and Other Reserves, in the consolidated financial statements.

Pension Plan Accounting
The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans principally for salaried, management personnel. For employees hired prior to 2003, the plans provide eligible employees with retirement benefits based predominantly on years of service and compensation rates near retirement. For employees hired between 2003 and 2019, benefits are determined based on a cash balance formula, which provides benefits by utilizing interest and pay credits based upon age, service and compensation. Beginning in 2020, the CSX Pension Plan was closed to new participants. As of December 2022, the projected benefit obligation for the Company’s pension plans was $2.4 billion. For information related to the funded status of the Company's pension plans, see Note 9, Employee Benefit Plans.

The accounting for these plans is subject to the guidance provided in the Compensation-Retirement Benefits Topic in the ASC. This rule requires that management make certain assumptions relating to the following:
•discount rates used to measure future obligations and interest expense;
•long-term rate of return on plan assets; and
•other assumptions.

The Company engages independent actuaries to compute the amounts of liabilities and expenses relating to these plans subject to the assumptions that the Company determines are appropriate based on historical trends, current market rates and future projections. These amounts are reviewed by management.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.38

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

Discount Rates
Discount rates affect the amount of liability recorded and the service and interest cost components of pension expense. Discount rates reflect the rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled, or in other words, how much it would cost the Company to buy enough high quality bonds to generate cash flow equal to the Company's expected future benefit payments. The Company determines the discount rate based on the market yield as of year-end for high quality corporate bonds whose maturities match the plans' expected benefit payments.

The Company measures the service and interest cost components of the net pension benefits expense by using individual spot rates matched with separate cash flows for each future year. Under the spot rate approach, individual spot discount rates along the same high quality corporate bonds yield curve used to measure the pension benefit liabilities are applied to the relevant projected cash flows at the relevant maturity.

The weighted average discount rate used by the Company to value its pension obligations was 5.02% and 2.78% as of December 2022, and December 2021, respectively. As of December 2022, the estimated duration of pension benefits is approximately 10 years.

Each year, the discount rate is reevaluated and adjusted using the current market interest rates for high quality corporate bonds to reflect the best estimate of the current effective settlement rates. In general, if interest rates decline or rise, the assumed discount rate will change.

Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets
The expected long-term average rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. In estimating that rate, the Company gives appropriate consideration to the returns being earned by the plan assets in the funds and the rates of return expected to be available for reinvestment as well as the current and projected asset mix of the funds. Management, with the assistance of an outsourced investment manager, balances market expectations obtained from various investment managers with both market and actual plan historical returns to develop a reasonable estimate of the expected long-term rate of return on assets. As this assumption is long term, the annual review may result in less frequent adjustment than other assumptions used in pension accounting. The long-term rate of return on plan assets used by the Company to value its benefit cost for the subsequent plan year was 6.75% in both 2022 and 2021.

Other Assumptions
The calculations made by the actuaries also include assumptions relating to mortality rates, turnover, retirement age and salary inflation rates. These assumptions are based upon historical data, recent plan experience and industry trends and are determined by management.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.39

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

2023 Estimated Pension Expense
Net periodic pension benefit expense for 2023 is expected to be a credit of $1 million. Net periodic pension benefit expense for 2023 is expected to include service cost expense of $24 million. Service cost expense is included in labor and fringe on the consolidated income statement and all other components of net pension expense are included in other income - net. Net periodic pension expense in 2022 was a credit of $41 million. The net decrease in the expected credit is primarily due to impacts from recent unfavorable pension asset experience, partially offset by the increase in discount rates.

The following sensitivity analysis illustrates the effects of a 1% change in certain assumptions on the 2023 estimated pension expense:

------------------------ --------------- --
(Dollars in Millions) Pension Expense
Discount Rate $ 16
Long-term Rate of Return $ 24

Depreciation Policies for Assets Utilizing the Group-Life Method
The depreciable assets of the Company are depreciated using either the group-life or straight-line method of accounting, which are both acceptable depreciation methods in accordance with GAAP. The Company depreciates its railroad assets, including main-line track, locomotives and freight cars, using the group-life method of accounting. Assets depreciated under the group-life method comprise 84% of total fixed assets of $48.1 billion on a gross basis at December 31, 2022. The remaining depreciable assets of the Company, including non-railroad assets and assets under finance leases, are depreciated using the straight-line method on a per asset basis. Land is not depreciated.

Management performs a review of depreciation expense and useful lives on a regular basis. Under the group-life method, the service lives and salvage values for each group of assets are determined by completing periodic depreciation studies and applying management’s methods to determine the service lives of its properties. There are several factors taken into account during the depreciation study and they include:
•statistical analysis of historical life and salvage data for each group of property;
•statistical analysis of historical retirements for each group of property;
•evaluation of current operations;
•evaluation of technological advances and maintenance schedules;
•previous assessment of the condition of the assets;
•management's outlook on the future use of certain asset groups;
•expected net salvage to be received upon retirement; and
•comparison of assets to the same asset groups with other companies.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.40

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

The STB requires depreciation studies be performed every three years for equipment assets (e.g., locomotives and freight cars) and every six years for road and track assets (e.g., bridges, signals, rail, ties, and ballast). The Company completed a depreciation study for its road and track assets in 2020 and for equipment assets in 2022, both of which resulted in changes to accumulated depreciation, service lives, salvage values, and other related factors for certain assets. The 2022 equipment study resulted in an expected increase in annual depreciation expense of approximately $80 million primarily due to deferred losses on assets depreciated using the group-life method. Recent experience with depreciation studies has resulted in changes to accumulated depreciation and depreciation rates that did not materially affect the Company's depreciation expense of $1.4 billion in both 2021 and 2020.

A 1% change in the average estimated useful life of all group-life assets would result in an approximate $12 million change to the Company’s annual depreciation expense. There were no significant changes to the company's asset lives as a result of the 2022 and 2020 studies. For additional details, including a more detailed description of our related accounting policies, see Note 6, Properties, in the consolidated financial statements.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets
As of December 2022, the Company had $502 million of Goodwill and Other Intangibles - Net. In applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, management must determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in order to properly allocate purchase price consideration between depreciable and amortizable assets and goodwill. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. Estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future and the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital.

CSX evaluates goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or sooner if indicators of impairment exist. In performing the qualitative impairment assessment, CSX considers relevant events and conditions, including but not limited to: macroeconomic trends, industry and market conditions, overall financial performance, company-specific events, and legal and regulatory factors. If the qualitative assessments indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible assets are less than their carrying amounts, the Company would perform a quantitative impairment test. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill or intangible asset exceeded the fair value under the quantitative test, an impairment loss would be recorded. Measurement of the fair value of a reporting unit could be based on one or more of the following fair value measures: amounts at which the unit as a whole could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, present value techniques of estimated future cash flows, valuation techniques based on multiples of earnings or revenue, or a similar performance measure.

New Accounting Pronouncements and Changes in Accounting Policy
 See Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies under the caption “New Accounting Pronouncements and Changes in Accounting Policy.”

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.41

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
    Certain statements in this report and in other materials filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made by the Company, are forward-looking statements. The Company intends for all such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act may contain, among others, statements regarding:
•projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, margins, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes or other financial items;
•expectations as to results of operations and operational initiatives;
•expectations as to the effect of claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity;
•management's plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, capital expenditures, workforce levels, dividends, share repurchases, safety and service performance, proposed new services and other matters that are not historical facts, and management's expectations as to future performance and operations and the time by which objectives will be achieved; and
•future economic, industry or market conditions or performance and their effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "will," "should," “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate,” “preliminary” and similar expressions. The Company cautions against placing undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect its good faith beliefs with respect to future events and are based on information currently available to it as of the date the forward-looking statement is made.  Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the timing when, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved.

Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual performance or results could differ materially from those anticipated by any forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.

The following important factors, in addition to those discussed in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements:
•legislative, regulatory or legal developments involving transportation, including rail or intermodal transportation, the environment, hazardous materials, taxation, international trade and initiatives to further regulate the rail industry;
•the outcome of litigation, claims and other contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, those related to fuel surcharge, environmental matters, taxes, shipper and rate claims subject to adjudication, personal injuries and occupational illnesses;
•changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation, as well as the impact of international trade agreements and tariffs) and the level of demand for products carried by CSXT;

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.42

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
•natural events such as severe weather conditions, including floods, fire, hurricanes and earthquakes, a pandemic crisis affecting the health of the Company's employees, its shippers or the consumers of goods, or other unforeseen disruptions of the Company's operations, systems, property, equipment or supply chain;
•competition from other modes of freight transportation, such as trucking, and competition and consolidation or financial distress within the transportation industry generally;
•the cost of compliance with laws and regulations that differ from expectations as well as costs, penalties and operational and liquidity impacts associated with noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations;
•the impact of increased passenger activities in capacity-constrained areas, including potential effects of high speed rail initiatives, or regulatory changes affecting when CSXT can transport freight or service routes;
•unanticipated conditions in the financial markets that may affect timely access to capital markets and the cost of capital, as well as management's decisions regarding share repurchases;
•changes in fuel prices, surcharges for fuel and the availability of fuel;
•the impact of natural gas prices on coal-fired electricity generation;
•the impact of global supply and price of seaborne coal on CSX's export coal market;
•availability of insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or insufficient insurance coverage to cover claims or damages;
•the inherent business risks associated with safety and security, including the transportation of hazardous materials or a cybersecurity attack which would threaten the availability and vulnerability of information technology;
•adverse economic or operational effects from actual or threatened war or terrorist activities and any governmental response;
•loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees;
•labor and benefit costs and labor difficulties, including stoppages affecting either the Company's operations or customers' ability to deliver goods to the Company for shipment;
•the Company's success in implementing its strategic, financial and operational initiatives, including acquisitions;
•the impact of conditions in the real estate market on the Company's ability to sell assets;
•changes in operating conditions and costs, including the impacts of inflation, or commodity concentrations;
•the impacts of a public health crisis and any policies or initiatives instituted in response; and
•the inherent uncertainty associated with projecting economic and business conditions.

Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified elsewhere in this report and in CSX's other SEC reports, which are accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and the Company's website at www.csx.com. The information on the CSX website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.43

CSX CORPORATION
PART II

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[refer to Note 8]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105 Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[refer to Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[refer to Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[refer to Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[refer to Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105 Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106 The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[see Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[see Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[see Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[see Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[discussed in Part II, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[PART I

Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[PART I

Item 2]:
Item 2. Properties 48

[PART II
Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[PART II
Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part II, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Exhibit 31]:
[Reference to Exhibit 31]

[Exhibit 32 to this Form 10-K]:
[Reference to Exhibit 32]

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.6

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

The risks set forth in the following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s incurring fines, penalties or costs relating to the cleanup of environmental contamination. Although the Company believes it has appropriately recorded current and long-term liabilities for known and reasonably estimable future environmental costs, it could incur significant costs that exceed reserves or require unanticipated cash expenditures as a result of any of the foregoing. The Company also may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown or future environmental contamination.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

None

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.12

CSX CORPORATION
PART I

Item 2.  Properties

The Company’s properties primarily consist of track and its related infrastructure, locomotives and freight cars and equipment. These categories and the geography of the network are described below.

Track and Infrastructure
Serving 26 states, the District of Columbia, and the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec, the CSXT rail network serves, among other markets, New York, Philadelphia and Boston in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic, the southeast markets of Atlanta, Miami and New Orleans, and the midwestern markets of St. Louis, Memphis and Chicago.

CSXT’s track structure includes mainline track, connecting terminals and yards, track within terminals and switching yards, sidings used for passing trains, track connecting CSXT']:
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39

['s assets, including track, bridges, signals, equipment and detection technology also supports safety performance.

The Company remains focused on safety, service, and controlling costs. Train velocity declined 10% relative to 2021. Dwell increased by 6% and cars online increased 5% in 2022. Compared to 2021, intermodal trip plan performance improved 3%, while carload trip plan performance decreased 7%. CSX has seen an improvement in service metrics in the last quarter of 2022 and expects that trend to continue in 2023.

From a safety perspective, the FRA personal injury index was flat compared to prior year while the train-accident rate improved by 1%. Safety remains a top priority at CSX, and the Company is committed to reducing risk and enhancing the overall safety of its employees, customers and communities in which the Company operates.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Liquidity is a company’s ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet both current and future needs for obligations as they mature and to provide for planned capital expenditures, including those to address regulatory and legislative requirements. To have a complete picture of a company’s liquidity, its sources and uses of cash, balance sheet and external factors should be reviewed.

Significant Cash Flows
The following charts highlight the operating, investing and financing components of the change in cash and cash equivalents for operating, investing and financing activities for full years 2022 and 2021.

In 2022, the Company generated $5.6 billion of cash from operating activities, which was $520 million more than prior year primarily driven by higher cash-generating income, partially offset by less favorable working capital activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.1 billion, an increase in net spend of $254 million from the prior year primarily as a result of higher property additions and lower proceeds and advances from property dispositions, partially offset by decreased costs for business acquisitions. Cash used in financing activities was $3.8 billion, which represents a decrease in net spend of $343 million from the prior year mostly driven by the issuance of long-term debt as well as lower repayments of debt, partially offset by higher share repurchases.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.31

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Sources of Cash and Liquidity
The Company has multiple sources of liquidity, including cash generated from operations and financing sources. The Company filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC on February 16, 2022, which may be used to issue debt or equity securities at CSX’s discretion, subject to market conditions and CSX Board authorization. While CSX seeks to give itself flexibility with respect to cash requirements, there can be no assurance that market conditions would permit CSX to sell such securities on acceptable terms at any given time, or at all. In 2022, CSX issued $2.0 billion of long-term debt. See Note 10, Debt and Credit Agreements for more information.

CSX has access to a $1.2 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility backed by a diverse syndicate of banks that expires in March 2024. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no outstanding balances under this facility. The Company also has a commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility, under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no outstanding debt under the commercial paper program.

Uses of Cash
CSX uses current cash balances for general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures, working capital requirements, reduction or refinancing of outstanding indebtedness, redemptions and repurchases of CSX common stock, dividends to shareholders, acquisitions and other business opportunities, and contributions to the Company']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[' equity increased $1.4 billion from prior year end. The increase in total assets was primarily due to a $1.2 billion increase in net properties and a $193 million increase in investments in affiliates and other companies, partially offset by a reduction in cash of $281 million. The increase in net properties was primarily attributable to capital expenditures as well as fixed assets acquired as part of the Pan Am transaction. In addition, the increase in investments in affiliates and other companies includes the impact of the acquired interest in Pan Am Southern, LLC as well as higher values of several affiliates. See Note 17, Business Combinations, for more details on purchase accounting.

Total liabilities increased $2.3 billion from prior year end primarily due to the issuance of $2.0 billion in long-term debt and a $186 million increase in deferred taxes due to accelerated tax depreciation and the impact of the Pan Am acquisition. These increases were partially offset by debt repayments of $186 million. Total shareholders']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

['s pension plans, see Note 9, Employee Benefit Plans.

The accounting for these plans is subject to the guidance provided in the Compensation-Retirement Benefits Topic in the ASC. This rule requires that management make certain assumptions relating to the following:
•discount rates used to measure future obligations and interest expense;
•long-term rate of return on plan assets; and
•other assumptions.

The Company engages independent actuaries to compute the amounts of liabilities and expenses relating to these plans subject to the assumptions that the Company determines are appropriate based on historical trends, current market rates and future projections. These amounts are reviewed by management.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.38

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Critical Accounting Estimates, continued

Discount Rates
Discount rates affect the amount of liability recorded and the service and interest cost components of pension expense. Discount rates reflect the rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled, or in other words, how much it would cost the Company to buy enough high quality bonds to generate cash flow equal to the Company']:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106 The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

['s goodwill or intangible on multiples of earnings or revenue, or a similar performance measure.

New Accounting Pronouncements and Changes in Accounting Policy
 See Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies under the caption “New Accounting Pronouncements and Changes in Accounting Policy.”

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.41

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
    Certain statements in this report and in 1995 and the provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act may contain, among others, statements regarding:
•projections and estimates of earnings, revenues, margins, volumes, rates, cost-savings, expenses, taxes or other financial items;
•expectations as to results of operations and operational initiatives;
•expectations as to the effect of claims, lawsuits, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements on the Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[" “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate,” “preliminary” and similar expressions. The Company cautions against placing undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect its good faith beliefs with respect to future events and are based on information currently available to it as of the date the forward-looking statement is made.  Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the timing when, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved.

Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual performance or results could differ materially from those anticipated by any forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. If the Company does update any forward-looking statement, no inference should be drawn that the Company will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statements.

The following important factors, in addition to those discussed in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements:
•legislative, regulatory or legal developments involving transportation, including rail or intermodal transportation, the environment, hazardous materials, taxation, international trade and initiatives to further regulate the rail industry;
•the outcome of litigation, claims and other contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, those related to fuel surcharge, environmental matters, taxes, shipper and rate claims subject to adjudication, personal injuries and occupational illnesses;
•changes in domestic or international economic, political or business conditions, including those affecting the transportation industry (such as the impact of industry competition, conditions, performance and consolidation, as well as the impact of international trade agreements and tariffs) and the level of demand for products carried by CSXT;

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.42

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
•natural events such as severe weather conditions, including floods, fire, hurricanes and earthquakes, a pandemic crisis affecting the health of the Company']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s information technology systems operations, including cybersecurity.Prior to joining CSX with nearly 20 years of information technology experience, he spent 30 years at BP, most recently as Chief Information Officer of the global BP group.
Nathan as Vice President of Risk Compliance and General Counsel and has overseen work in compliance, risk management and safety programs.
Diana B. Sorfleet, 58Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative facilities and aviation.During her 11 years with the Company, Ms. Sorfleet has previously served as Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining CSX, she worked in human resources for 20 years.
Angela in the state of Florida.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.19

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information
CSX’s common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which is its principal trading market, and is traded over-the-counter and on exchanges nationwide. The official trading symbol is “CSX.”

Description of Common and Preferred Stock
A total of 5.4 billion shares of common stock are authorized, of which 2,066,350,050 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2022. Each share is entitled to one vote in all matters requiring a vote of shareholders. There are no preemptive rights, which are privileges extended to select shareholders that would allow them to purchase additional shares before other members of the general public in the event of an offering. At January 31, 2023, the latest practicable date that is closest to the filing date, there were 22,453 common stock shareholders of record. The weighted average of common shares outstanding, which was used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, was 2,141 million as of December 31, 2022. (See Note 2, Earnings Per Share.) A total of 25 million shares of preferred stock is authorized, none of which is currently outstanding.

    The following table sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the dividends declared on CSX common stock.

---- ------- ----- --- --- ----- --- ---- ----- - ----- - -----
 Quarter
 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Year
2022 $ 0.100 $ 0.100 $ 0.100 $ 0.100 $ 0.400
2021 $ 0.093 $ 0.093 $ 0.093 $ 0.093 $ 0.372

Stock Performance Graph
The cumulative shareholder returns, assuming reinvestment of dividends, on $100 invested at December 31, 2017 are illustrated on the graph below. The Company references the Standard & Poor']:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

['s results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. A discussion regarding results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, can be found in Part II, Item 7 of CSX']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

["). CSX also uses certain non-GAAP measures that fall within the meaning of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G and Regulation S-K Item 10(e), which may provide users of the financial information with additional meaningful comparison to prior reported results. Non-GAAP measures do not have standardized definitions and are not defined by GAAP. Therefore, CSX’s non-GAAP measures are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. The presentation of these non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or as superior to the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to corresponding GAAP measures are below.

Free Cash Flow
Management believes that free cash flow is useful to investors as it is important in evaluating the Company’s financial performance. More specifically, free cash flow measures cash generated by the business after reinvestment. This measure represents cash available for both equity and bond investors to be used for dividends, share repurchases or principal reduction on outstanding debt. Free cash flow is calculated by using net cash from operations and adjusting for property additions and proceeds from property dispositions. This measure should be considered in addition to, rather than a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. Free cash flow before dividends decreased $101 million year-over-year to $3.7 billion primarily due to higher property additions and lower proceeds and advances from property dispositions, mostly attributable to the sale of property rights to the Commonwealth of Virginia. These decreases were partially offset by higher net cash provided by operating activities.

The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure).

------------------------------------------------ ----------- ----- ---- ------- - -----
 Years Ended
 2022 2021
(Dollars in Millions)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 5,619 $ 5,099
Property Additions (2,133) (1,791)
Proceeds and Advances from Property Dispositions 246 529
Other Investing Activities (a) n/a (4)
Free Cash Flow, before Dividends (Non-GAAP) $ 3,732 $ 3,833

(a) Effective first quarter 2022, the results of other investing activities are no longer included in free cash flow. Prior year has not been restated as the change is immaterial.

CSX 2022 Form 10-K p.29

CSX CORPORATION
PART II
OPERATING STATISTICS (Estimated)
Certain operating statistics are estimated and can continue to be updated as actuals settle. The methodology for calculating train velocity, dwell, cars online and trip plan performance differs from that used by the Surface Transportation Board. The Company will continue to report these metrics to the Surface Transportation Board using the prescribed methodology.

-------------------------------------- ------------ - ---- ------- ---------------------------- ---- -
 Fiscal Years
 2022 2021 Improvement/ (Deterioration)
Operations Performance
Train Velocity (Miles per hour)(a) 16.1 17.9 (10) %
Dwell (Hours)(a) 11.3 10.7 (6) %
Cars Online(a) 138,074 131,564 (5) %
On-Time Originations(a) 60 % 75 % (20) %
On-Time Arrivals(a) 52 % 66 % (21) %
Carload Trip Plan Performance(a) 64 % 69 % (7) %
Intermodal Trip Plan Performance(a) 90 % 87 % 3 %
Fuel Efficiency 0.99 0.96 (3) %

Revenue Ton-Miles (Billions)
Merchandise 126.0 126.3 — %
Coal 33.8 35.4 (5) %
Intermodal 30.0 31.5 (5) %
Total Revenue Ton-Miles 189.8 193.2 (2) %

Total Gross Ton-Miles (Billions) 375.5 376.0 — %

Safety
FRA Personal Injury Frequency Index(a) 0.96 0.96 — %
FRA Train Accident Rate(a) 3.18 3.22 1 %

(a) These metrics do not include results from the network acquired from Pan Am. These metrics will be updated to include the Pan Am network results as data becomes available.

Key Performance Measures Definitions:
Train Velocity - Average train speed between origin and destination in miles per hour (does not include locals, yard jobs, work trains or passenger trains). Train velocity measures the profiled schedule of trains (from departure to arrival and all interim time), and train profiles are periodically updated to align with a changing operation.
Dwell - Average amount of time in hours between car arrival to and departure from the yard.
Cars Online - Average number of active freight rail cars on lines operated by CSX, excluding rail cars that are being repaired, in storage, those that have been sold, or private cars dwelling at a customer location more than one day.
On-Time Originations - Percent of scheduled road trains that depart the origin yard on-time or ahead of schedule.
On-Time Arrivals - Percent of scheduled road trains that arrive at the destination yard on-time to within two hours of scheduled arrival. Carload Trip Plan Performance - Percent of measured cars destined for a customer that arrive at or ahead of the original estimated time of arrival, notification or interchange (as applicable).
Intermodal Trip Plan Performance - Percent of measured containers destined for a customer that arrive at or ahead of the original estimated time of arrival, notification or interchange (as applicable).
Fuel Efficiency - Gallons of locomotive fuel per 1,000 gross ton-miles.
Revenue Ton-Miles (RTM']:
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers of the Registrant and Corporate Governance In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement. The Proxy Statement will be filed no later than May 1, 2023 with respect to the 2023 annual meeting of shareholders, except for the information regarding the executive officers of the Company. Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I of this report under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant."