================================================================================
CIK: 0000860731
Company Name: TYLER TECHNOLOGIES INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-22
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 11:30:19
================================================================================

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a comparison of our Results of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2020, and our Cash Flow discussion for the year ended December 2021, see “Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, as filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022.

CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical in nature and typically address future or anticipated events, trends, expectations or beliefs with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or business. Forward-looking statements often contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “plans,” “intends,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “projects,” “might,” “could” or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our forward-looking statements, but they are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from the expectations and beliefs reflected in the forward-looking statements. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and beliefs: (1) the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including its potential effects on the economic environment, our customers and our operations, as well as any changes to federal, state or local government laws, regulations or orders in connection with the pandemic; (2) changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our clients, primarily local and state governments, that could negatively impact information technology spending; (3) disruption to our business and harm to our competitive position resulting from cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities; (4) our ability to protect client information from security breaches and provide uninterrupted operations of data centers; (5) our ability to achieve growth or operational synergies through the integration of acquired businesses, while avoiding unanticipated costs and disruptions to existing operations; (6) material portions of our business require the internet infrastructure to be adequately maintained; (7) our ability to achieve our financial forecasts due to various factors, including project delays by our clients, reductions in transaction size, fewer transactions, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for service agreements; (8) general economic, political and market conditions, including inflation and changes in interest rates; (9) technological and market risks associated with the development of new products or services or of new versions of existing or acquired products or services; (10) competition in the industry in which we conduct business and the impact of competition on pricing, client retention and pressure for new products or services; (11) the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and dealing with the loss or retirement of key members of management or other key personnel; and (12) costs of compliance and any failure to comply with government and stock exchange regulations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business are described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW
General
We provide integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector. We develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the IT needs of public sector entities. We provide subscription-based services such as software as a service (“SaaS”), transaction-based fees primarily related to digital government services and online payment processing, and electronic document filing solutions (“e-filing”), which simplify the filing and management of court related documents. In addition, we provide professional IT services to our clients, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training, and for certain clients, product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for clients using our systems. Additionally, we provide property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.
We provide our software systems and related professional services and appraisal services through seven business units, which focus on the following products:
•financial management, education and planning, regulatory, and maintenance software solutions;
•financial management, municipal courts, planning, regulatory, and maintenance software solutions;
•courts and justice and public safety software solutions;
•data and insights solutions;
•appraisal and tax software solutions, land and vital records management software solutions, and property appraisal services;
•development platform solutions including case management and business process management; and
•digital government and payments solutions.

25

In accordance with ASC 280-10, Segment Reporting, we report our results in two reportable segments. The Enterprise Software (“ES”) reportable segment provides public sector entities with software systems and services to meet their information technology and automation needs for mission-critical “back-office” functions such as: financial management and education; planning, regulatory and maintenance; courts and justice; public safety; data and insights; appraisal and tax software solutions; land and vital records management software solutions; and property appraisal services. The Platform Technologies (“PT”) reportable segment provides public sector entities with software solutions to perform transaction processing, streamline data processing, and improve operations and workflows such as digital government and payments solutions and development platform solutions.
We evaluate performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment operating income. We define segment operating income for our business units as income before non-cash amortization of intangible assets associated with their acquisitions, interest expense, and income taxes. Segment operating income includes intercompany transactions. The majority of intercompany transactions relate to contracts involving more than one unit and are valued based on the contractual arrangement. Corporate segment operating loss primarily consists of compensation costs for the executive management team, certain shared services staff, and share-based compensation expense for the entire company. Corporate segment operating income also includes revenues and expenses related to a company-wide user conference.
As of January 1, 2022, the appraisal and tax software solutions, land and vital records management software solutions, and property appraisal service business unit, which was previously reported in the Appraisal & Tax ("A&T") reportable segment, was moved to the ES reportable segment. The digital government and payments solutions, which was previously reported in the NIC reportable segment, and development platform solutions moved to the PT reportable segment to reflect changes in the way in which management makes operating decisions, allocates resources, and manages the growth and profitability of the Company. As a result of the changes in our reportable segments, the former A&T and NIC reportable segments are no longer considered separate segments. Prior period amounts for the ES and PT reportable segments have been adjusted to reflect the segment change. See Note 17, "Segment and Related Information," in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Certain amounts for previous years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. We have elected to present amortization of software development, previously included in the cost of revenues software licenses and royalties line item, in a separate category line item on the consolidated statements of income for all reporting periods presented. Previously disclosed as selling, general and administrative expense is now disclosed in separate line items: sales and marketing expense and general and administrative expense on the consolidated statements of income for all reporting periods presented.
Recent Acquisitions
2022
On October 31, 2022, we acquired Rapid Financial Solutions, LLC, a principal provider of reliable, scalable, and secure payments with best-in-class card issuance and digital disbursement capabilities. The total purchase price, net of cash acquired of $2.2 million, was approximately $67.7 million, consisting of $51.2 million paid in cash, $18.2 million of common stock, and $500,000 related to working capital holdbacks, subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
On February 8, 2022, we acquired US eDirect Inc. (US eDirect), a leading provider of technology solutions for campground and outdoor recreation management. The total purchase price, net of cash acquired of $6.4 million, was approximately $116.5 million, consisting of $118.8 million paid in cash and approximately $4.1 million related to indemnity holdbacks.
2021
On September 9, 2021, we acquired all the equity interest of Ultimate Information Systems, Inc. (dba Arx). Arx is a cloud-based platform which creates accessible technology to enable a modern-day police force that is fully transparent, accountable, and a trusted resource to the community it serves. The total purchase price, net of cash acquired, was approximately $12.8 million.
On September 1, 2021, we acquired VendEngine, Inc (VendEngine), a cloud-based software provider focused on financial technology for the corrections market. The total purchase price, net of cash acquired of $1.7 million, was approximately $83.6 million, consisting of $81.6 million paid in cash, and approximately $3.8 million related to indemnity holdbacks.
On April 21, 2021, we acquired NIC, a leading digital government solutions and payment company that primarily serves federal and state government agencies. The total purchase price, net of cash acquired of $331.8 million, was approximately $2.0 billion, consisting of cash paid of $2.3 billion and $1.9 million of purchase consideration related to the conversion of unvested restricted stock awards.
On March 31, 2021, we completed two acquisitions, Glass Arc, Inc. (dba ReadySub) and DataSpec, Inc. (DataSpec), for the combined purchase price of $12.1 million.

26

2022 Operating Results
For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, total revenues increased 16% compared to the prior period. Excluding the 2022 impact of recent acquisitions1, total revenues increased 4% compared to prior period. Revenues from acquisitions contributed 12.4% of growth for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022.
Subscriptions revenue grew 29.0% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, due to an ongoing shift toward a cloud-based, software as a service business model, as well as the inclusion of transaction-based revenue from NIC’s digital government and payments processing businesses. Excluding the 2022 impact of recent acquisitions1, subscriptions revenue increased 6.3% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022.
The majority of our revenues are comprised of revenues from subscriptions and maintenance, which we consider to be recurring revenues. Annualized recurring revenues ("ARR") is calculated based on quarter-to-date end total recurring revenues multiplied by four. ARR was $1.50 billion and $1.39 billion as of December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. ARR increased 8% compared to the prior period, due to an increase in subscriptions revenue due to an ongoing shift toward SaaS arrangements.
For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, total revenues include COVID-related subscriptions revenue of $10.8 million from NIC’s Tour Health offering and professional services revenue of $40.2 million from pandemic unemployment and Virginia rent relief offerings. These programs all ended in 2022 and we do not expect to generate COVID-related subscriptions revenue and professional services revenue in future periods.
We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following:
Revenues – We derive our revenues from five primary sources: subscription-based arrangements; maintenance; professional services; sale of software licenses and royalties; and appraisal services. Subscriptions and maintenance are considered recurring revenue sources and comprised approximately 80% of our revenues in 2022. The number of new SaaS clients and the number of existing clients who convert from our traditional software arrangements to our SaaS model are a significant driver of our revenue growth, together with new software license sales and maintenance rate increases. We monitor ARR which is calculated based on quarter-to-date end total recurring revenues multiplied by four. As of December 31, 2022, ARR was $1.50 billion. In addition, we also monitor our customer base and turnover, which historically is very low. During 2022, based on our number of customers, turnover was approximately 2%.
Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins – Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in connection with providing software implementation, subscription-based services, maintenance and support, and appraisal services to our clients. We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses and royalties, subscription-based services, and maintenance and support. Our appraisal projects are cyclical in nature, and we often employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project. As of December 31, 2022, our total employee count included in cost of revenues increased to 5,021 from 4,746 at December 31, 2021, including 56 employees who joined us through acquisitions completed since December 31, 2021.
Sales and Marketing (“S&M”) Expense – The primary components of S&M expense include sales personnel salaries and share-based compensation expense, sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, and allocated depreciation, facilities, and IT support. Sales commissions typically fluctuate with revenues and share-based compensation expense generally increases based increased level of awards issues during the period and as the market price of our stock increases. Other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues.
General and Administrative (“G&A”) Expense – The primary components of G&A expense include personnel salaries and share-based compensation expense for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third party professional fees, travel-related expenses, insurance, allocation of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. Share-based compensation expense generally increases as the market price of our stock increases. Other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues.
Liquidity and Cash Flows – The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. Uses of cash include acquisitions, capital investments in property and equipment and discretionary purchases of treasury stock. Our working capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash receipts from clients in advance of revenue being earned. In recent years,

1 Excludes the 2022 incremental impact as a result of not having the recent acquisition for a full fiscal year.

27

we have also received significant amounts of cash from employees exercising stock options and contributing to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Balance Sheet – Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred revenue balances are important indicators of our business.
Outlook
The local government software market continues to be active with sales activity trending at or near pre-pandemic levels in most sectors of our business, and our backlog at December 31, 2022 reached $1.89 billion, a 5% increase from the prior period. We expect to continue to achieve solid growth in revenues and earnings. With our strong financial position and cash flow, we plan to continue to make significant investments in product development and accelerating our move to the cloud to better position us to continue to expand our addressable market and strengthen our competitive position over the long term. The expenses associated with the cloud transition are expected to pressure operating margins in 2023 and 2024.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingencies. The Notes to the Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the application of the progress toward completion methods of revenue recognition, estimated standalone selling price ("SSP") for distinct performance obligations, the fair value amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets, determination of share-based compensation expense and allowance for losses and sales adjustments. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
We believe the following critical accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.
Revenue Recognition. We earn revenues from software licenses, royalties, subscription-based services, professional services, post-contract customer support (“PCS” or “maintenance”), hardware, and appraisal services. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps:
•Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer
•Identification of the performance obligations in the contract
•Determination of the transaction price
•Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract
•Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation
Our software arrangements with customers contain multiple performance obligations that range from software licenses and SaaS arrangements, installation, training, and consulting to software modification and customization to meet specific customer needs (services), hosting, and PCS. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately when they are distinct. We evaluate whether separate performance obligations can be distinct or should be accounted for as one performance obligation. Arrangements that include professional services, such as training or installation, are evaluated to determine whether the customer can benefit from the services either on their own or together with other resources readily available to the customer and whether the services are separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Many of our software arrangements involve “off-the-shelf” software. We recognize the revenue allocable to "off-the-shelf" software licenses and specified upgrades at a point in time when control of the software license transfers to the customer, unless the software is not considered distinct. We consider off-the-shelf software to be distinct when it can be added to an arrangement with minor changes in the underlying code, it can be used by the customer for the customer’s purpose upon installation, and remaining services such as training are not considered highly interdependent or highly interrelated to the product's functionality.

28

For arrangements that involve significant production, modification or customization of the software, or where professional services are otherwise not considered distinct, we recognize revenue over time by measuring progress-to-completion. We measure progress-to-completion primarily using labor hours incurred as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. These arrangements are often implemented over an extended period and occasionally require us to revise total cost estimates. Amounts recognized in revenue are calculated using the progress-to-completion measurement after giving effect to any changes in our cost estimates. Changes to total estimated contract costs, if any, are recorded in the period they are determined. Estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recorded in the period in which we first determine that a loss is apparent. When professional services are distinct, the fee allocable to the service element is recognized over the time we perform the services and is billed on a time and material or milestones basis.
Subscription-based services consist of revenues derived from SaaS arrangements, transaction and payment processing, electronic filing transactions, and digital government services. Revenue from subscription-based services is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that our service is made available to the customer. For SaaS arrangements, we evaluate whether the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty and whether the customer can feasibly maintain the software on the customer’s hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third-party to host the software. We allocate contract value to each performance obligation of the arrangement that qualifies for treatment as a distinct element based on estimated SSP. We recognize SaaS arrangements ratably over the terms of the arrangements, which range from one to ten years, but are typically for periods of three to five years. For professional services associated with certain SaaS arrangements, we have concluded that the services are not distinct, and we recognize the revenue ratably over the remaining contractual period once we have provided the customer access to the software. We record amounts that have been invoiced in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenues, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met.
For transaction and payments revenue and e-filing transaction fees, we have the right to charge the customer an amount that directly corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date. Therefore, we recognize revenue for these services over time based on the amount billable to the customer in accordance with the 'as invoiced' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18. In some cases, we are paid on a fixed fee basis and recognize the revenue ratably over the contractual period. Typically, the structure of our arrangements does not give rise to variable consideration. However, in those instances whereby variable consideration exists, we include in our estimates, additional revenue for variable consideration when we believe we have an enforceable right, the amount can be estimated reliably and its realization is probable.
The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. We determine the SSP based on our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors, including the value of our contracts, the applications sold, customer demographics, and the number and types of users within our contracts. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine SSP using the expected cost-plus margin approach. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for sales adjustments and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
We maintain allowances for losses and sales adjustments, which losses are recorded against revenues at the time the loss is incurred. Since most of our clients are domestic governmental entities, we rarely incur a credit loss resulting from the inability of a client to make required payments. Events or changes in circumstances that indicate the carrying amount for the allowances for losses and sales adjustments may require revision, include, but are not limited to, managing our client’s expectations regarding the scope of the services to be delivered and defects or errors in new versions or enhancements of our software products. Our allowance for losses and sales adjustments of $14.8 million and $12.1 million at December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021, respectively, does not include provisions for credit losses. As of January 1, 2020, we adopted ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, and primarily evaluated our historical experience with credit losses related to trade and other receivables. Because we rarely experience credit losses with our clients, we have not recorded a material reserve for credit losses.
In connection with certain of our contracts, we have recorded retentions receivable or unbilled receivables consisting of costs and estimated profit in excess of billings as of the balance sheet date. Many of the contracts which give rise to unbilled receivables at a given balance sheet date are subject to billings in the subsequent accounting period. We review unbilled receivables and related contract provisions to ensure we are justified in recognizing revenue prior to billing the customer and that we have objective evidence which allows us to recognize such revenue. In addition, we have a sizable amount of deferred revenue, which represents billings in excess of revenue earned. The majority of this liability consists of subscriptions and maintenance billings for which payments are made in advance and the revenue is ratably earned over the subscription or maintenance billing period, generally one year. We also have deferred revenue for those contracts in which we receive a deposit and the conditions in which to record revenue for the service or product have not been met. On a periodic basis, we review by customer the detail components of our deferred revenue to ensure our accounting remains appropriate.

29

Business Combinations. Accounting for the acquisition of a business requires the allocation of the purchase price to the various assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their respective fair values. The determination of fair value requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, and in making these determinations, management uses all available information.
For tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination, management estimates the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on quoted market prices, the carrying value of the acquired assets and widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows and market multiple analyses. The assumptions made in performing these valuations include, but are not limited to, discount rates, future revenues and operating costs, projections of capital costs, and other assumptions believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants.
Due to the specialized nature of these calculations, we engage third-party specialists to assist management in evaluating our assumptions as well as appropriately measuring the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We adjust the preliminary purchase price allocation, as necessary, up to one year after the acquisition closing date as we obtain new information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the closing date. If actual results are materially different than the assumptions we used to determine fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed through a business combination as well as the estimated useful lives of the acquired intangible assets, it is possible that adjustments to the carrying values of such assets and liabilities will have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.
Intangible Assets and Goodwill. Our business acquisitions typically result in the creation of goodwill and other intangible asset balances, and these balances affect the amount and timing of future period amortization expense, as well as expense we could possibly incur as a result of an impairment charge. The cost of acquired companies is allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess allocated to goodwill. Accordingly, we have a significant balance of acquisition date intangible assets, including software, customer related intangibles, trade name, leases and goodwill. These intangible assets (other than goodwill) are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We currently have no intangible assets with indefinite lives other than goodwill.
We assess goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We begin with the qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value before applying the quantitative assessment described below. When testing goodwill for impairment quantitatively, we first compare the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized. The fair values calculated in our impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions (Level 3 inputs). The assumptions that are used are based upon what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by comparing the total of the fair value of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization.
During the fourth quarter, as part of our annual impairment test as of October 1, we performed qualitative assessments for the reporting units containing the recently acquired data and insights, digital government and payments solutions, and development platform solutions, and concluded no impairment existed as of our annual assessment date. Approximately $1.7 billion, or 70%, of total goodwill as of December 31, 2022, relates to these reporting units, which as a result of these recent acquisitions, do not have significant excess fair values over carrying values. We performed qualitative assessments for the remaining reporting units in which we determined that it not more likely than not that the fair value exceeded the carrying value; therefore, we did not perform a Step 1 quantitative impairment test. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis did not result in an impairment charge. During 2022, we have recorded no impairment to goodwill as no triggering events or change in circumstances indicating a potential impairment has occurred as of period-end.
Determining the fair value of our reporting units involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions and considerable management judgment. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable at the time, but such assumptions are subject to inherent uncertainty. Changes in market conditions or other factors outside of our control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could cause us to change key assumptions and our judgment about a reporting unit’s prospects. Similarly, in a specific period, a reporting unit could significantly underperform relative to its historical or projected future operating results. Either situation could result in a meaningfully different estimate of the fair value of our reporting units, and a consequent future impairment charge.

30

All intangible assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of other intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount to estimated undiscounted future cash flows. The assessment of recoverability or of the estimated useful life for amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of estimated future operating cash flows is not achieved. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; and reductions in growth rates. In addition, products, capabilities, or technologies developed by others may render our software products obsolete or non-competitive. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets. During 2022, we did not identify any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of our intangible assets may not be recoverable.
Recent adoption of new accounting pronouncements
In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-08 - Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers (ASC 805) (“ASU 2021-08”). ASU 2021-08 requires an acquirer in a business combination to recognize and measure contract assets and contract liabilities (deferred revenue) from acquired contracts using the revenue recognition guidance in Topic 606. Under this "Topic 606 approach," the acquirer applies the revenue model as if it had originated the contracts. This is a departure from the current requirement to measure contract assets and contract liabilities at fair value. ASU 2021-08 is effective for all public business entities in annual and interim periods starting after December 15, 2022, and early adoption is permitted. An entity that early adopts should apply the amendments (1) retrospectively to all business combinations for which the acquisition date occurs on or after the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period of early application and (2) prospectively to all business combinations that occur on or after the date of initial application. We early adopted as of January 1, 2022. The adoption of ASU 2021-08 resulted in no adjustments to the fair value of the deferred revenue balances assumed in our 2022 acquisitions. See Note 2, “Acquisitions,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
Recent Accounting Guidance not yet Adopted
There were no new not yet adopted accounting pronouncements currently issued that would affect the Company or have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations in future periods.

31

ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OTHER
The following discussion compares the historical results of operations on a basis consistent with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.

------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- - ---- ----- ---- ----- -
 Percentage of Total RevenuesYears Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Revenues:
Subscriptions 54.7 % 49.3 % 31.4 %
Maintenance 25.3 29.8 41.9
Professional services 13.1 13.2 16.7
Software licenses and royalties 3.2 4.6 6.5
Appraisal services 1.9 1.7 1.9
Hardware and other 1.8 1.4 1.6
Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0
Cost of revenues:
Subscriptions, maintenance, and professional services 51.6 50.3 45.8
Software licenses, royalties, and amortization of acquired software 3.1 3.1 3.2
Amortization of software development 0.4 0.1 —
Appraisal services 1.3 1.2 1.4
Hardware and other 1.3 0.8 1.1
Sales and marketing expense 7.3 7.4 8.8
General and administrative expense 14.4 17.1 14.4
Research and development expense 5.7 5.9 7.9
Amortization of customer and trade name intangibles 3.3 2.8 1.9
Operating income 11.6 11.3 15.5
Interest expense (1.5) (1.5) (0.1)
Other income, net 0.1 0.1 0.3
Income before income taxes 10.2 9.9 15.7
Income tax provision (benefit) 1.3 (0.2) (1.8)
Net income 8.9 % 10.1 % 17.5 %

2022 Compared to 2021
Revenues
Recent Acquisitions
On October 31, 2022, we acquired Rapid Financial Solutions, LLC (Rapid), a provider of reliable, scalable, and secure payments with best-in-class card issuance and digital disbursement capabilities. On February 8, 2022, we acquired US eDirect Inc. (US eDirect), a leading provider of technology solutions for campground and outdoor recreation management. On April 21, 2021, we acquired NIC, Inc., a leading digital government solutions and payment company that serves federal, state and local government agencies. US eDirect and Rapid are operated as a part of the digital government and payment solutions business unit (also known as the NIC division) and the results of NIC, US eDirect, and Rapid from their respective dates of acquisition, are included with the operating results of the PT segment.

32

The following table details revenues for the NIC division for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2022 and 2021, which are presented in our consolidated statements of income from the date of acquisition and included in the operating results of the PT reportable segment (in thousands).

------------------------------- ------ ------- ---- ------ - -------
 2022 2021
Revenues:
Subscriptions $ 470,904 $ 344,692
Maintenance 810 560
Professional services 50,006 23,665
Software licenses and royalties — —
Appraisal services — —
Hardware and other — —
Total revenues $ 521,720 $ 368,917

Subscriptions.
The following table sets forth a comparison of our subscriptions revenue for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

-------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ------ ------- - ------- --------- - ------- -- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
ES $ 526,323 $ 425,078 $ 101,245 24 %
PT 485,981 359,357 126,624 35
Total subscriptions revenue $ 1,012,304 $ 784,435 $ 227,869 29 %

Less: Revenue from recent acquisitions 2 (178,363) — (178,363)
Total subscriptions revenue excluding acquisitions $ 833,941 $ 784,435 $ 49,506 6 %

Subscriptions revenue consists of revenue derived from our SaaS arrangements and transaction-based fees primarily related to digital government services and payment processing. We also provide electronic document filing solutions (“e-filing”) that simplify the filing and management of court related documents for courts and law offices. E-filing revenue is derived from transaction fees and fixed fee arrangements.
Subscriptions revenue grew 29% compared to 2021, primarily due to the inclusion of transaction-based revenues from NIC including Rapid and US eDirect from the respective dates of acquisition. Excluding the incremental impact of recent acquisitions, subscriptions revenue increased 6%. New SaaS clients as well as existing clients who converted to our SaaS model provided the majority of the subscriptions revenue increase. In 2022, we added 609 new SaaS clients and 336 existing clients elected to convert to our SaaS model. Our mix of new software contracts in 2022 was approximately 23% perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 77% subscription-based arrangements compared to total new client mix in 2021 of approximately 33% perpetual software license arrangements and approximately 67% subscription-based arrangements.
Total subscriptions revenue derived from transaction-based fees was $600.8 million and $454.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase of $146.0 million or 32% is attributable to inclusion of the NIC division, including Rapid and US eDirect transaction-based revenues from the respective dates of acquisition. Transaction-based revenue from the NIC division was $470.9 million and $344.7 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Excluding NIC, transaction-based fees contributed $19.8 million to the increase in subscriptions revenue due to the increased volumes of online payments and e-filing services in 2022.

2 Excludes the 2022 incremental impact as a result of not having the recent acquisition for a full fiscal year.

33

Maintenance.
The following table sets forth a comparison of our maintenance revenue for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

------------------------------------------------ ------ ------- ------ ------ - ------- -------- - ------- --- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
ES $ 444,143 $ 439,589 $ 4,554 1 %
PT 24,312 34,698 (10,386) (30)
Total maintenance revenue $ 468,455 $ 474,287 $ (5,832) (1) %

Less: Revenue from recent acquisitions 2 (689) — (689)
Total maintenance revenue excluding acquisitions $ 467,766 $ 474,287 $ (6,521) (1) %

We provide maintenance and support services for our software products and certain third-party software. Maintenance revenue decreased 1% compared to the prior period. Maintenance revenue declined mainly due to attrition related to a legacy case management solution and clients converting from on-premises license arrangements to SaaS, partially offset by annual maintenance rate increases and maintenance associated with new software license sales.
Annualized Recurring Revenues
Subscriptions and maintenance are considered recurring revenue sources. Annualized recurring revenues ("ARR") is calculated based on quarter-end total recurring revenues multiplied by four. ARR was $1.50 billion and $1.39 billion as of December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. ARR increased 8% compared to the prior period due to an increase in subscriptions revenue resulting from an ongoing shift toward SaaS arrangements.
Professional services.
The following table sets forth a comparison of our professional services revenue for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

---------------------------------------------------------- -------- ------- ------ ------ - ------- -------- - ------ -- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
ES $ 170,462 $ 165,396 $ 5,066 3 %
PT 72,655 43,995 28,660 65
Total professional services revenue $ 243,117 $ 209,391 $ 33,726 16 %

Less: Revenue from recent acquisitions 2 (17,073) — (17,073)
Total professional services revenue excluding acquisitions $ 226,044 $ 209,391 $ 16,653 8 %

Professional services revenue primarily consists of professional services billed in connection with implementing our software, converting client data, training client personnel, custom development activities and consulting. New clients who purchase our proprietary software licenses or subscriptions generally also contract with us to provide the related professional services. Existing clients also periodically purchase additional training, consulting and minor programming services.
Professional services revenue increased 16% compared to the prior year, primarily due to the inclusion of revenues from recent acquisitions from the date of acquisition. Excluding the incremental impact of recent acquisitions, professional services revenue increased 8%. The increase in professional services revenue is primarily attributed to higher revenues generated by the continued COVID pandemic-related rent relief services and the return of billable travel revenue as onsite services have increased since 2021. The increases are partially offset by more clients selecting our cloud solutions instead of our on-premises license arrangements which typically require more professional services.

34

Software licenses and royalties.
The following table sets forth a comparison of our software licenses and royalties revenue for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

-------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ------ ------ ----- - ------ ------- - -------- ---- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
ES $ 55,158 $ 66,816 $ (11,658) (17) %
PT 4,248 7,636 (3,388) (44)
Total software licenses and royalties revenue $ 59,406 $ 74,452 $ (15,046) (20) %

Less: Revenue from recent acquisitions 2 — — —
Total software licenses and royalties revenue excluding acquisitions $ 59,406 $ 74,452 $ (15,046) (20) %

Software licenses and royalties revenue decreased 20% compared to the prior period. The decline is primarily attributed to the shift in the mix of new software contracts toward more subscription-based agreements compared to the prior period.
Although the mix of new contracts between subscription-based and perpetual license arrangements may vary from quarter to quarter and year to year, we expect the decline in software license revenues will accelerate as we continue to shift our model away from perpetual licenses to SaaS. Subscription-based arrangements result in lower software license revenue in the initial year as compared to perpetual software license arrangements but generate higher overall revenue over the term of the contract.
Appraisal services.
The following table sets forth a comparison of our appraisal services revenue for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------ ------ - - ------ - - ----- -- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
ES $ 34,508 $ 27,788 $ 6,720 24 %
PT — — — —
Total appraisal services revenue $ 34,508 $ 27,788 $ 6,720 24 %

Less: Revenue from recent acquisitions 2 — — —
Total appraisal services revenue excluding acquisitions $ 34,508 $ 27,788 $ 6,720 24 %

In 2022, appraisal services revenue grew 24% compared to the prior period primarily due to relaxed travel restrictions allowing for the ramp-up of appraisal services for several new revaluation contracts which started in recent quarters. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states.
Cost of revenues and gross margins
The following table sets forth a comparison of the key components of our cost of revenues for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

----------------------------------------------------- ------ --------- ---- ------ ------ ------- ------ - ------- -- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
Subscriptions, maintenance, and professional services $ 953,897 $ 799,158 $ 154,739 19 %
Software licenses and royalties 6,083 3,552 2,531 71
Amortization of software development 6,507 2,325 4,182 180
Amortization of acquired software 52,192 45,601 6,591 14
Appraisal services 23,988 19,061 4,927 26
Hardware and other 23,674 12,946 10,728 83
Total cost of revenues $ 1,066,341 $ 882,643 $ 183,698 21 %

35

The following table sets forth a comparison of gross margin percentage by revenue type for the years ended December 31:

------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- - ---- ---- ------ ------ -
 2022 2021 Change
Subscriptions, maintenance, and professional services 44.7 % 45.6 % (0.9) %
Software licenses, royalties, software development, and acquired software (9.0) 30.9 (39.9)
Appraisal services 30.5 31.4 (0.9)
Hardware and other 27.0 41.0 (14.0)
Overall gross margin 42.4 % 44.6 % (2.2) %

Gross margin percentage by revenue type, excluding the incremental impact of recent acquisitions 2, for the years ended December 31:

------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- - ---- ---- ------ ------ -
 2022 2021 Change
Subscriptions, maintenance, and professional services 45.8 % 45.6 % 0.2 %
Software licenses, royalties, software development, and acquired software 7.1 30.9 (23.8)
Appraisal services 30.5 31.4 (0.9)
Hardware and other 27.9 41.0 (13.1)
Overall gross margin 43.8 % 44.6 % (0.8) %

Subscriptions, maintenance, and professional services. Cost of subscriptions, maintenance and professional services primarily consists of personnel costs related to installation of our software, conversion of client data, training client personnel and support activities and various other services such as custom client development, on-going operation of SaaS, digital government, and other transaction-based services such as e-filing. Other costs included are interchange fees required to process credit/debit card transactions and bank fees to process automated clearinghouse transactions related to our payments business. In 2022, the subscriptions, maintenance and professional services gross margin declined 0.9% compared to the prior period primarily due to several factors, including lower maintenance revenue resulting from attrition related to a legacy case management solution; a post-COVID return of low-margin revenues such as billable travel; higher personnel costs related to inflation, as well as costs related to onboarding new professional services employees who are not yet billable; and higher hosting costs related to our accelerated shift to the cloud. Our implementation and support staff grew by 225 employees since December 31, 2021, as we increased hiring to ensure that we are well-positioned to deliver our current backlog and anticipated new business. Excluding the incremental impact from recent acquisitions of $70 million, gross margin was 45.8% in 2022, a slight increase of 0.2% which is attributable to an increase in SaaS arrangements and the decline in low margin COVID-related transaction-based revenues compared to the prior period.
Software licenses, royalties, software development, and acquired software. Amortization expense for acquired software comprises the majority of costs of software licenses, royalties, software development, and acquired software. We do not have any direct costs associated with royalties. The gross margin for software licenses, royalties, software development, and acquired software was negative 9.0% in 2022 and 30.9% in 2021. Excluding the impact of amortization expense of acquired software, the margin was 78.8% in 2022 and 92.1% in 2021. The decline in software licenses, royalties, software development, and acquired software gross margin compared to the prior period is due to lower revenue from software licenses.
Appraisal services. Appraisal services revenue comprised approximately 1.9% of total revenues. The appraisal services gross margin decrease of 0.9% compared to 2021 is primarily due to higher personnel costs related to inflation, as well as increased low margin billable travel revenue. The appraisal services business is somewhat cyclical and driven in part by statutory revaluation cycles in various states.
Overall gross margin. Our 2022 blended gross margin decreased 2.2% compared to 2021, principally due to the inclusion of NIC’s revenues (including lower margin COVID related revenues), which historically have lower margins than Tyler’s software-related revenues. Excluding the incremental impact from recent acquisitions of $60 million, overall gross margin was 43.8% in 2022. The decrease of 0.8% in overall gross margin compared to the prior period is due to lower revenue from software licenses and maintenance, higher hosting costs related to our accelerated shift to the cloud, and higher personnel costs. Excluding employees from recent acquisitions, our implementation and support, and appraisal staff grew by 219 employees since December 31, 2021, as we increased hiring to ensure that we are well-positioned to deliver our current backlog and anticipated new business.

36

Sales and marketing expense
Sales and Marketing expense (“S&M”) consists primarily of salaries, employee benefits, travel, share-based compensation expense, commissions and related overhead costs for sales and marketing employees, as well as professional fees, trade show activities, advertising costs and other marketing costs. The following table sets forth a comparison of our S&M expenses for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

--------------------------- ---- ------- ------ - ------- - - ------ -- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
Sales and marketing expense $ 135,743 $ 118,624 $ 17,119 14 %

S&M as a percentage of revenue was 7.3% in 2022 compared to 7.4% in 2021. S&M expense increased approximately 14% compared to the prior period, primarily due to the inclusion of recent acquisitions’ S&M expense. Excluding the incremental impact of S&M expense from recent acquisitions of $5.6 million, S&M increased 10% compared to the prior period. Higher S&M expense is due to higher bonus and commission expense relating to improved operating results, increase in road show and user conference expenses, increase in travel-related expenses, and higher sales and marketing personnel costs from increased employee headcount.
General and administrative expense
General and administrative (“G&A”) expense consists primarily of personnel salaries and share-based compensation expense for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third party professional fees, travel-related expenses, insurance, allocation of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. The following table sets forth a comparison of our G&A expense for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

---------------------------------- ---- ------- ------ - ------- - - ------- --- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
General and administrative expense $ 267,324 $ 271,955 $ (4,631) (2) %

G&A as a percentage of revenue was 14.4% in 2022 compared to 17.1% in 2021. G&A expense decreased approximately 2% compared to the prior period. The decrease in G&A is primarily attributed to lower transaction costs related to recent acquisitions and lower share-based compensation expense. G&A includes $2.0 million of transaction expenses related to acquisitions completed in 2022 compared to $23.5 million of transaction expense related to acquisitions completed in 2021. During 2022, stock compensation expense declined $5.5 million compared to 2021, generally due to a lower fair value of each share-based award resulting from the decline in our stock price. The decreases are offset by inclusion of G&A expense from acquisitions of $21.5 million, higher bonus expense due to improved operating results, increases in amortization of software development for internal use, increases in travel-related expenses and other administrative costs, and higher personnel costs from increased employee headcount. In 2022, G&A expense also included $2.8 million related to lease restructuring and other asset write-offs.
Research and development expense
Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries, employee benefits and related overhead costs associated with new product development. The following table sets forth a comparison of our research and development expense for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

-------------------------------- ---- ------- ------ - ------ - - ------ -- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
Research and development expense $ 105,184 $ 93,481 $ 11,703 13 %

Research and development expense consists mainly of costs associated with development of new products and technologies from which we do not currently generate significant revenue.
Research and development expense as a percent of total revenue was 5.7% in 2022 compared to 5.9% in 2021. Research and development expense increased 13% in 2022 compared to the prior period, mainly due to a number of new Tyler product development initiatives across our product suites, including increased investments in research and development at recently acquired businesses.

37

Amortization of other intangibles
Other intangibles are comprised of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired that are allocated to acquired software and customer related, trade name, and leases acquired intangibles. The remaining excess purchase price is allocated to goodwill that is not subject to amortization. Amortization expense related to acquired software is included with cost of revenues while amortization expense of customer and trade name intangibles is recorded as operating expense. The estimated useful lives of other intangibles range from one to 25 years. The following table sets forth a comparison of our amortization of other intangibles for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

--------------------------------- ---- ------ ------ - ------ - - ------ -- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
Amortization of other intangibles $ 61,363 $ 44,849 $ 16,514 37 %

Amortization of other intangibles increased due to the impact of intangibles added with several acquisitions completed in 2022 and 2021.
Estimated annual amortization expense relating to customer related, trade name, and acquired lease intangibles, excluding acquired software for which the amortization expense is recorded as cost of revenues, for the next five years and thereafter is as follows (in thousands):

---------- ------- ------
 2023 $ 70,233
 2024 54,141
 2025 53,404
 2026 52,586
 2027 52,143
Thereafter 524,162

Interest expense
The following table sets forth a comparison of our interest expense for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

---------------- ---- -------- ------ - -------- - - ------- ---
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
Interest expense $ (28,379) $ (23,298) $ (5,081) 22%

Interest expense is comprised of interest expense and non-usage and other fees associated with our borrowings. The change in interest expense compared to the prior period is attributable to an increase in amortization expense related to debt issuance costs, resulting from our accelerated repayment of the term loans, coupled with an increase in interest rates compared to the prior period.
Other income, net
The following table sets forth a comparison of our other income, net for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

----------------- ---- ----- ------ - ----- - - --- ---
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
Other income, net $ 1,723 $ 1,544 $ 179 12%

Other income, net, is primarily comprised of interest income from invested cash. The change in other income, net, compared to the prior period is due to increased interest income generated from invested cash as a result of higher interest rates in 2022 compared to 2021.

38

Income tax provision
The following table sets forth a comparison of our income tax provision for the years ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

------------------------------ ---- ------ ------ ----- - ------- - - ------ ------- -
 Change
 2022 2021 $ %
Income tax provision (benefit) $ 23,353 $ (2,477) $ 25,830 (1,043) %

Effective income tax rate 12.4 % (1.6) %

The increase in the income tax provision and the effective income tax rate in 2022 compared to the prior period is principally driven by a decrease in excess tax benefits from share-based compensation and an increase in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, offset by an increase in research tax credit benefits. The share-based exercise and vesting activity in 2022 generated $7.8 million of excess tax benefits, while exercise and vesting activity in 2021 generated $47.7 million of excess tax benefits. The tax benefits related to research tax credits totaled $31.3 million in 2022 compared to $5.0 million in 2021, as a result of completing a multiyear research and development tax credit study during 2022.
The effective income tax rates for the periods presented were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 21% primarily due to excess tax benefits from share-based compensation and the tax benefits of research tax credits, offset by an increase in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, state income taxes, and non-deductible business expenses. Excluding the impact of the excess tax benefits, uncertain tax positions and research credits, our income tax provision and effective tax rate in 2022 would have been $54.1 million and 28.8%, respectively, and in 2021, would have been $50.6 million and 31.8%, respectively.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY
As of December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $173.9 million compared to $309.2 million at December 31, 2021. We also had $55.5 million invested in investment grade corporate bonds, municipal bonds and asset-backed securities as of December 31, 2022, compared to $98.7 million at December 31, 2021. These investments have varying maturity dates through 2027 and are held as available-for-sale. As of December 31, 2022, we had $395.0 million outstanding borrowings under our 2021 Credit Agreement and one outstanding letter of credit totaling $1.5 million in favor of a client contract. We believe our cash on hand, cash from operating activities, availability under our revolving line of credit, and access to the credit markets provide us with sufficient flexibility to meet our long-term financial needs.
The following table sets forth a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):

---------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ---- ----------- ---- --------- -------- - -------
 2022 2021 2020
Cash flows provided (used) by:
Operating activities $ 381,455 $ 371,753 $ 355,089
Investing activities (172,530) (2,090,935) (98,320)
Financing activities (344,239) 1,424,730 114,172
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (135,314) $ (294,452) $ 370,941

Net cash provided by operating activities continues to be our primary source of funds to finance operating needs and capital expenditures. Other potential capital resources include cash on hand, public and private issuances of debt or equity securities, and bank borrowings. It is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets in the future may be limited by economic conditions or other factors. We currently believe that our cash on hand, cash provided by operating activities, and available credit are sufficient to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, income tax obligations, and share repurchases for at least the next twelve months.
In 2022, operating activities provided cash of $381.5 million compared to $371.8 million in 2021. Operating activities that provided cash were primarily comprised of net income of $164.2 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization charges of $159.1 million, non-cash share-based compensation expense of $103.0 million and non-cash amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets of $13.0 million. Working capital, excluding cash, decreased approximately $60.6 million mainly due to timing of payments to and receipts from our government partners, timing of payments of payroll related taxes and vendor invoices, and deferred taxes associated with tax research credits and stock option activity during the period. These decreases were offset by the timing of tax payments, prepaid expenses, and increase in deferred revenue during the period. In general, changes in deferred revenue are cyclical and primarily driven by the timing of our maintenance renewal billings. Our renewal dates occur throughout the year, but our largest renewal billing cycles occur in the second and fourth quarters. Subscription renewals are billed throughout the year.

39

Days sales outstanding (DSO) in accounts receivable were 115 days at December 31, 2022, compared to 108 days at December 31, 2021. DSO is calculated based on quarter-end accounts receivable divided by the quotient of annualized quarterly revenues divided by 360 days. The increase in DSO compared to December 31, 2021, is attributed to slower payments from certain large clients and timing of receipts from our government partners.
Investing activities used cash of $172.5 million in 2022 compared to $2.1 billion in 2021. On October 31, 2022, we acquired Rapid Financial Solutions, LLC, for the total purchase price, net of cash acquired of $2.2 million, of approximately $67.7 million, consisting of $51.2 million paid in cash, $18.2 million of common stock, and $500,000 related to working capital holdbacks, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. On May 31, 2022, we completed the acquisition of Quatred, LLC for the total cash price of approximately $637,000. On February 8, 2022, we acquired US eDirect Inc, for the total purchase price, net of cash acquired of $6.4 million, of approximately $116.5 million, consisting of $118.8 million paid in cash and approximately $4.1 million related to indemnity holdbacks. During 2022, we also paid approximately $1.9 million in indemnity and working capital holdbacks related to acquisitions completed in late 2021. In addition, approximately $27.6 million of software development costs were capitalized. Approximately $22.5 million was invested in property and equipment, including $4.5 million related to real estate. The remaining additions were for computer equipment and furniture and fixtures in support of growth, particularly with respect to data centers supporting growth in our cloud-based offerings.
Investing activities used cash of $2.1 billion in 2021. We invested $77.5 million and received $131.4 million in proceeds from investment grade corporate bonds, municipal bonds and asset-backed securities with maturity dates ranging from 2022 through 2027. On March 31, 2021, we completed two acquisitions with the total purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $12.1 million paid in cash. On April 21, 2021, we completed the acquisition of NIC for the total purchase price of $2.0 billion, net of cash acquired of $331.8 million, including cash paid of $2.3 billion and $1.9 million of purchase consideration related to the conversion of unvested restricted stock awards. On September 1, 2021, we acquired VendEngine for the total purchase price, net of cash acquired of $1.7 million, of approximately $83.8 million consisting of $80.2 million paid in cash and approximately $5.4 million related to indemnity holdbacks, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. On September 9, 2021, we acquired all of the equity interest of Arx for the total purchase price, net of cash acquired, of approximately $12.8 million, of which $12.3 million was paid in cash and approximately $500,000 was accrued for indemnity holdbacks. Approximately $33.9 million was invested in property and equipment, including $12.8 million related to real estate. In addition, approximately $21.7 million of software development was capitalized in 2021. The remaining additions were for computer equipment and furniture and fixtures in support of internal growth, with the majority associated with our data centers supporting growth in our cloud-based offerings. These expenditures were funded from cash generated from operations.
Financing activities used cash of $344.2 million in 2022 compared to cash provided of $1.4 billion in 2021, primarily attributable to repayment of $360.0 million of term debt, partially offset by payments received from stock option exercises, net of withheld shares for taxes upon equity award and employee stock purchase plan activity.
Financing activities provided cash of $1.4 billion in 2021. Financing activities in 2021 were primarily comprised of proceeds from the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2021 Credit Agreement. On March 9, 2021, we issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes. The net proceeds from the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes were $591.4 million, net of initial purchasers’ discounts of $6.0 million and debt issuance costs of $2.6 million. On April 21, 2021, in connection with the completion of the NIC acquisition, the Company, as borrower, entered into a new 2021 Credit Agreement with various lenders consisting of an unsecured revolving credit facility of up to $500.0 million and unsecured term loans totaling $900.0 million. The net proceeds from the borrowings under the 2021 Credit Agreement were $1.1 billion, net of debt discounts of $7.2 million and debt issuance costs of $4.9 million and $6.4 million of commitment fees paid related to the terminated $1.6 billion unsecured bridge loan facility. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, we repaid $250.0 million of the unsecured revolving credit facility and $145.0 million of the term debt. The remainder of the financing activities was comprised of receipts of $109.9 million from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan activity. We also purchased approximately 33,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $13.0 million.
In February 2019, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 1.5 million shares of our common stock. The repurchase program, which was approved by our board of directors, was originally announced in October 2002 and was amended at various times from 2003 through 2019. As of February 22, 2023, we have authorization from our board of directors to repurchase up to 2.3 million additional shares of our common stock. Our share repurchase program allows us to repurchase shares at our discretion. Market conditions influence the timing of the buybacks and the number of shares repurchased, as well as the volume of employee stock option exercises. Share repurchases are generally funded using our existing cash balances and borrowings under our credit facility and may occur through open market purchases and transactions structured through investment banking institutions, privately negotiated transactions and/or other mechanisms. There is no expiration date specified for the authorization and we intend to repurchase stock under the plan from time to time.

40

As of December 31, 2022, we had $600 million in outstanding principal for the Convertible Senior Notes due 2026. Under our 2021 Credit Agreement, we had $395 million in outstanding principal for the Term Loans, no outstanding borrowings under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility, and an available borrowing capacity of $500 million as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, we had one outstanding letter of credit totaling $1.5 million. The letter of credit, which guarantees our performance under a client contract, renews automatically annually unless canceled in writing and expires in the third quarter of 2026. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, we repaid $360 million of the Term Loans under 2021 Credit Agreement.
We paid interest of $21.3 million in 2022, $17.7 million in 2021, including $6.4 million related to the senior unsecured bridge loan facility commitment fee in 2021, and $610,000 in 2020. See Note 6, “Debt,” to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2021 Credit Agreement.
We paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $38.5 million in 2022, $2.2 million in 2021, and $3.3 million in 2020. In 2022, stock option exercise activity generated net tax benefits of $7.8 million and reduced tax payments accordingly, as compared to $47.7 million and $60.2 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively.
For tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2022, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“TCJA”) eliminates the option to currently deduct research and development expenses and requires taxpayers to capitalize and amortize them over five years for research activities performed in the United States and 15 years for research activities performed outside the United States pursuant to IRC Section 174. Although Congress is considering legislation that would repeal or defer this capitalization and amortization requirement, it is not certain that this provision will be repealed or otherwise modified. If the requirement is not repealed or replaced, it will increase our U.S. federal and state cash tax payments and reduce cash flows in fiscal year 2023 and future years.
We anticipate that 2023 capital spending will be between $68 million and $70 million, including approximately $16 million related to real estate and approximately $37 million of software development. We expect the majority of the other capital spending will consist of computer equipment and software for infrastructure replacements and expansion. We also expect cash tax payments to be higher as a result of IRC Section 174. Capital spending and cash tax payments are expected to be funded from existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.
From time to time we engage in discussions with potential acquisition candidates. In order to pursue such opportunities, which could require significant commitments of capital, we may be required to incur debt or to issue additional potentially dilutive securities in the future. No assurance can be given as to our future acquisition opportunities and how such opportunities will be financed.
We lease office facilities for use in our operations, as well as transportation and other equipment. Most of our leases are non-cancelable operating lease agreements and they expire from one to 12 years. Some of these leases include options to extend for up to six years.
Our estimated future obligations consist of debt, uncertain tax positions, leases, and purchase commitments as of December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 6, “Debt,” Note 10, “Income Tax,” Note 14, “Leases,” and Note 16, “Commitment and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements for related discussions.

CAPITALIZATION
At December 31, 2022, our capitalization consisted of $987.4 million of outstanding debt and $2.6 billion of shareholders’ equity.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[Refer to Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[described in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, as filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022.

CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that are not historical in nature and typically address future or anticipated events, trends, expectations or beliefs with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or business. Forward-looking statements often contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “plans,” “intends,” “continues,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “projects,” “might,” “could” or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. We believe there is a reasonable basis for our forward-looking statements, but they are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results could differ materially from the expectations and beliefs reflected in the forward-looking statements. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and beliefs: (1) the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including its potential effects on the economic environment, our customers and our operations, as well as any changes to federal, state or local government laws, regulations or orders in connection with the pandemic; (2) changes in the budgets or regulatory environments of our clients, primarily local and state governments, that could negatively impact information technology spending; (3) disruption to our business and harm to our competitive position resulting from cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities; (4) our ability to protect client information from security breaches and provide uninterrupted operations of data centers; (5) our ability to achieve growth or operational synergies through the integration of acquired businesses, while avoiding unanticipated costs and disruptions to existing operations; (6) material portions of our business require the internet infrastructure to be adequately maintained; (7) our ability to achieve our financial forecasts due to various factors, including project delays by our clients, reductions in transaction size, fewer transactions, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for service agreements; (8) general economic, political and market conditions, including inflation and changes in interest rates; (9) technological and market risks associated with the development of new products or services or of new versions of existing or acquired products or services; (10) competition in the industry in which we conduct business and the impact of competition on pricing, client retention and pressure for new products or services; (11) the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and dealing with the loss or retirement of key members of management or other key personnel; and (12) costs of compliance and any failure to comply with government and stock exchange regulations. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business are described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements.

OVERVIEW
General
We provide integrated information management solutions and services for the public sector. We develop and market a broad line of software products and services to address the IT needs of public sector entities. We provide subscription-based services such as software as a service (“SaaS”), transaction-based fees primarily related to digital government services and online payment processing, and electronic document filing solutions (“e-filing”), which simplify the filing and management of court related documents. In addition, we provide professional IT services to our clients, including software and hardware installation, data conversion, training, and for certain clients, product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and support for clients using our systems. Additionally, we provide property appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.
We provide our software systems and related professional services and appraisal services through seven business units, which focus on the following products:
•financial management, education and planning, regulatory, and maintenance software solutions;
•financial management, municipal courts, planning, regulatory, and maintenance software solutions;
•courts and justice and public safety software solutions;
•data and insights solutions;
•appraisal and tax software solutions, land and vital records management software solutions, and property appraisal services;
•development platform solutions including case management and business process management; and
•digital government and payments solutions.

25

In accordance with ASC 280-10, Segment Reporting, we report our results in two reportable segments. The Enterprise Software (“ES”) reportable segment provides public sector entities with software systems and services to meet their information technology and automation needs for mission-critical “back-office” functions such as: financial management and education; planning, regulatory and maintenance; courts and justice; public safety; data and insights; appraisal and tax software solutions; land and vital records management software solutions; and property appraisal services. The Platform Technologies (“PT”) reportable segment provides development platform solutions.
We evaluate performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment operating income. We define segment operating income for our costs for the executive management team, certain shared services staff, and share-based compensation expense for the entire company. Corporate segment operating income also includes revenues and expenses related to a company-wide user conference.
As of January 1, 2022, the appraisal and tax software solutions, land and vital records management software solutions, and property appraisal service business unit, which was previously reported in the Appraisal & Tax ("]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[") reportable segment, was moved to the ES reportable segment. The digital government and payments solutions, which was previously reported in the NIC reportable segment, and development platform solutions moved to the PT reportable segment to reflect changes in the way in which management makes operating decisions, allocates resources, and manages the growth and profitability of the Company. As a result of the changes in our reportable segments, the former A&T and NIC reportable segments are no longer considered separate segments. Prior period amounts for the ES and PT reportable segments have been adjusted to reflect the segment change. See Note 17, "]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[") is calculated based on quarter-to-date end total recurring revenues multiplied by four. ARR was $1.50 billion and $1.39 billion as of December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. ARR increased 8% compared to the prior period, due to an increase in subscriptions revenue due to an ongoing shift toward SaaS arrangements.
For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, total revenues include COVID-related subscriptions revenue of $10.8 million from NIC’s Tour Health offering and professional services revenue of $40.2 million from pandemic unemployment and Virginia rent relief offerings. These programs all ended in 2022 and we do not expect to generate COVID-related subscriptions revenue and professional services revenue in future periods.
We monitor and analyze several key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. These indicators include the following:
Revenues – We derive our revenues from five primary sources: subscription-based arrangements; maintenance; professional services; sale of software licenses and royalties; and appraisal services. Subscriptions and maintenance are considered recurring revenue sources and comprised approximately 80% of our revenues in 2022. The number of new SaaS clients and the number of existing clients who convert from our traditional software arrangements to our SaaS model are a significant driver of our revenue growth, together with new software license sales and maintenance rate increases. We monitor ARR which is calculated based on quarter-to-date end total recurring revenues multiplied by four. As of December 31, 2022, ARR was $1.50 billion. In addition, we also monitor our customer base and turnover, which historically is very low. During 2022, based on our number of customers, turnover was approximately 2%.
Cost of Revenues and Gross Margins – Our primary cost component is personnel expenses in connection with providing software implementation, subscription-based services, maintenance and support, and appraisal services to our clients. We can improve gross margins by controlling headcount and related costs and by expanding our revenue base, especially from those products and services that produce incremental revenue with minimal incremental cost, such as software licenses and royalties, subscription-based services, and maintenance and support. Our appraisal projects are cyclical in nature, and we often employ appraisal personnel on a short-term basis to coincide with the life of a project. As of December 31, 2022, our total employee count included in cost of revenues increased to 5,021 from 4,746 at December 31, 2021, including 56 employees who joined us through acquisitions completed since December 31, 2021.
Sales and Marketing (“S&M”) Expense – The primary components of S&M expense include sales personnel salaries and share-based compensation expense, sales commissions, travel-related expenses, advertising and marketing materials, and allocated depreciation, facilities, and IT support. Sales commissions typically fluctuate with revenues and share-based compensation expense generally increases based increased level of awards issues during the period and as the market price of our stock increases. Other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues.
General and Administrative (“G&A”) Expense – The primary components of G&A expense include personnel salaries and share-based compensation expense for general corporate functions, including senior management, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and corporate development, third party professional fees, travel-related expenses, insurance, allocation of depreciation, facilities and IT support costs, acquisition-related expenses and other administrative expenses. Share-based compensation expense generally increases as the market price of our stock increases. Other administrative expenses tend to grow at a slower rate than revenues.
Liquidity and Cash Flows – The primary driver of our cash flows is net income. Uses of cash include acquisitions, capital investments in property and equipment and discretionary purchases of treasury stock. Our working capital needs are fairly stable throughout the year with the significant components of cash outflows being payment of personnel expenses offset by cash inflows representing collection of accounts receivable and cash receipts from clients in advance of revenue being earned. In recent years,

1 Excludes the 2022 incremental impact as a result of not having the recent acquisition for a full fiscal year.

27

we have also received significant amounts of cash from employees exercising stock options and contributing to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Balance Sheet – Cash, accounts receivable and days sales outstanding and deferred revenue balances are important indicators of our business.
Outlook
The local government software market continues to be active with sales activity trending at or near pre-pandemic levels in most sectors of our business, and our backlog at December 31, 2022 reached $1.89 billion, a 5% increase from the prior period. We expect to continue to achieve solid growth in revenues and earnings. With our strong financial position and cash flow, we plan to continue to make significant investments in product development and accelerating our move to the cloud to better position us to continue to expand our addressable market and strengthen our competitive position over the long term. The expenses associated with the cloud transition are expected to pressure operating margins in 2023 and 2024.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues, cost of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and related disclosure of contingencies. The Notes to the Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report describe our significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the application of the progress toward completion methods of revenue recognition, estimated standalone selling price ("]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...