================================================================================
CIK: 0000874766
Company Name: HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC
Filing Date: 2021-02-19
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-01 13:55:17
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Derivative Commitments
Certain of the Company’s derivative agreements contain provisions that are tied to the financial strength ratings, as set by nationally recognized statistical agencies, of the individual legal entity that entered into the derivative agreement. If the legal entity’s financial strength were to fall below certain ratings, the counterparties to the derivative agreements could demand immediate and ongoing full collateralization and in certain instances enable the counterparties to terminate the agreements and demand immediate settlement of all outstanding derivative positions traded under each impacted bilateral agreement. For further information, refer to Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of December 31, 2020, no derivative positions would be subject to immediate termination in the event of a downgrade of one level below the current financial strength ratings. This could change as a result of changes in our hedging activities or to the extent changes in contractual terms are negotiated.

Insurance Operations
While subject to variability period to period, underwriting and investment cash flows continue to provide sufficient liquidity to meet anticipated demands over the next twelve months. For information about the impact of COVID-19 on the Company's cash flows see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion and tabular presentation of the Company’s current contractual obligations by period, refer to Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations within the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of the MD&A.
The principal sources of operating funds are premiums, fees earned from assets under management and investment income, while investing cash flows primarily originate from maturities and sales of invested assets. The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, claim adjustment expenses, commissions and other underwriting and insurance operating costs, to pay taxes, to purchase new investments and to make dividend payments to the HFSG Holding Company.
The Company’s insurance operations consist of property and casualty insurance products (collectively referred to as “Property & Casualty Operations”) and Group Benefits.
The Company's insurance operations hold fixed maturity securities including a significant short-term investment position (securities with maturities of one year or less at the time of purchase) to meet liquidity needs. Liquidity requirements that are

unable to be funded by the Company's insurance operations' short-term investments would be satisfied with current operating funds, including premiums or investing cash flows, which includes proceeds received through the sale of invested assets. A sale of invested assets could result in significant realized capital losses.
The following tables represent the fixed maturity holdings, including the aforementioned cash and short-term investments available to meet liquidity needs, for each of the Company’s insurance operations.
Property & Casualty

--------------------------- ----------------- ------
 As of
 December 31, 2020
Fixed maturities $ 34,173
Short-term investments 1,086
Cash 120
Less: Derivative collateral 77
Total $ 35,302

Group Benefits Operations

--------------------------- ----------------- ------
 As of
 December 31, 2020
Fixed maturities $ 10,521
Short-term investments 254
Cash 13
Less: Derivative collateral 42
Total $ 10,746

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations
The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources of the Company, except for unfunded commitments to purchase investments in limited partnerships and other alternative investments, private placements, and mortgage loans as disclosed in Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

114

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Aggregate Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2020

---------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --------------- -------- -------- ---------------- ----- ------ ----- - ----- - ------
 Payments due by period
 Total Less than1 year 1-3years 3-5years More than5 years
Property and casualty obligations [1] $ 29,989 $ 7,157 $ 7,865 $ 3,901 $ 11,066
Group life and disability obligations [2] 10,407 1,403 3,457 1,514 4,033
Operating lease obligations [3] 243 47 81 52 63
Long-term debt obligations [4] 9,371 215 427 427 8,302
Purchase obligations [5] 2,814 2,233 444 127 10
Other liabilities reflected on the balance sheet [6] 45 45 — — —
Total $ 52,869 $ 11,100 $ 12,274 $ 6,021 $ 23,474

[1]The following points are significant to understanding the cash flows estimated for obligations (gross of reinsurance) under property and casualty contracts:
•Reserves for Property & Casualty unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses include IBNR and case reserves. While payments due on claim reserves are considered contractual obligations because they relate to insurance policies issued by the Company, the ultimate amount to be paid to settle both case reserves and IBNR is an estimate, subject to significant uncertainty. The actual amount to be paid is not finally determined until the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant. Final claim settlements may vary significantly from the present estimates, particularly since many claims will not be settled until well into the future.
•In estimating the timing of future payments by year, the Company has assumed that its historical payment patterns will continue. However, the actual timing of future payments could vary materially from these estimates due to, among other things, changes in claim reporting and payment patterns and large unanticipated settlements. In particular, there is significant uncertainty over the claim payment patterns of asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, the table does not include future cash flows related to the receipt of premiums that may be used, in part, to fund loss payments.
•Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is only permitted to discount reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses in cases where the payment pattern and ultimate loss costs are fixed and determinable on an individual claim basis. For the Company, these include claim settlements with permanently disabled claimants. As of December 31, 2020, the total property and casualty reserves in the above table are gross of a reserve discount of $367.
•Amounts shown do not consider $5.7 billion of reinsurance and other recoverables the Company expects to collect related to property and casualty obligations.
[2] Estimated group life and disability obligations are based on assumptions comparable with the Company’s historical experience, modified for recent observed trends. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could materially differ from actual results. As of December 31, 2020, the total group life and disability obligations in the above table are gross of a reserve discount of $1.4 billion.
[3]Includes undiscounted lease payments on operating lease agreements, including leases that have not yet commenced. See Note 21 - Leases of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on lease commitments.
[4] Long-term debt obligations include payments of contractual principal and interest through final maturity. Contractual interest payments are based on stated rates for fixed rate notes and based on prevailing rates at December 31, 2020 for the period of time the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have floating rates. Interest payments do not consider the impact of future rate movements. Payments exclude amounts associated with an interest rate swap of the Company’s $500 junior subordinated debenture. See Note 14 - Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of long-term debt obligations.
[5]Includes $1.1 billion in commitments to purchase investments including approximately $804 of limited partnership and other alternative investments, $79 of private debt and equity securities, and $236 of mortgage loans. Of the $1.1 billion in commitments to purchase investments, $149 are related to mortgage loan commitments which the Company can cancel unconditionally. Outstanding commitments under these limited partnerships and mortgage loans are included in payments due in less than 1 year since the timing of funding these commitments cannot be reliably estimated. In addition, $904 relates to commitments to purchase investments which are reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The remaining balance relates to contractual commitments to purchase various goods and services such as maintenance, human resources, and information technology in the normal course of business, as well as unfunded tax credit investments. Purchase obligations exclude contracts that are cancellable without penalty or contracts that do not specify minimum levels of goods or services to be purchased.
[6]Includes cash collateral of $30 which the Company has accepted in connection with the Company’s derivative instruments. Since the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the payments due in less than 1 year.

Capitalization

--------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------- ------ - ------ ------
Capital Structure
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Change
Short-term debt (includes current maturities of long-term debt) $ — $ 500 (100%)

Long-term debt 4,352 4,348 —%
Total debt 4,352 4,848 (10%)
Common stockholders' equity, excluding AOCI, net of tax 17,052 15,884 7%
Preferred stock 334 334 —%
AOCI, net of tax 1,170 52 NM
Total stockholders’ equity $ 18,556 $ 16,270 14%
Total capitalization $ 22,908 $ 21,118 8%
Debt to stockholders’ equity 23 % 30 %
Debt to capitalization 19 % 23 %

Total capitalization increased $1,790, or 8%, as of December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 primarily due to an

increase in AOCI and net income in excess of stockholder dividends, partially offset by a paydown of debt.
For additional information on AOCI, net of tax, including

115

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

unrealized capital gains from securities, see Note 18 - Changes in and Reclassifications From Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Note 6 - Investments of Notes to Consolidated

Financial Statements. For additional information on debt, see Note 14 - Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cash Flow [1][2]

----------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- - ------- - -------
 2020 2019 2018
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,871 $ 3,489 $ 2,843
Net cash used for investing activities $ (2,066) $ (2,148) $ (1,962)
Net cash used for financing activities $ (1,778) $ (1,191) $ (1,467)
Cash and restricted cash— end of year $ 239 $ 262 $ 121

[1]Cash activities in 2018 include cash flows from Discontinued Operations; see Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on cash flows from Discontinued Operations.
[2]Cash activities in 2020 include cash flows related to Continental Europe Operations classified as held for sale beginning in the third quarter of 2020. See Note 2 - Business Acquisition and Disposition of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of this transaction.

Year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019
Net cash provided by operating activities increased as compared to the prior year period primarily driven by the inclusion of Navigators Group for the full year in 2020, subrogation benefit distributions collected of $227 arising from the PG&E settlement agreement, a decrease in claims paid for Group Benefits and P&C excluding Navigators, lower operating expenses paid and the deferral of paying payroll taxes as a result of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (“CARES”) Act, partially offset by lower P&C premiums received excluding Navigators and a lower refund of AMT credits.
Cash used for investing activities decreased primarily due to the acquisition of Navigators Group for $1.9 billion in 2019, an increase in net proceeds from equity securities, and a decrease in net payments from mortgage loans, partially offset by a change from net proceeds to net payments from short-term investments, and an increase in net purchases of partnerships and fixed maturities.
Cash used for financing activities increased primarily due to a decrease in proceeds from issuing debt and a larger net decrease in securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, partially offset by a decrease in repayments of debt.
Operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020 have been adequate to meet liquidity requirements.

Equity Markets
For a discussion of the potential impact of the equity markets on capital and liquidity, see the Financial Risk on Statutory Capital and Liquidity Risk section in this MD&A.

Ratings
Ratings are an important factor in establishing a competitive position in the insurance marketplace and impact the Company's ability to access financing and its cost of borrowing. There can be no assurance that the Company’s ratings will continue for any given period of time, or that they will not be changed. In the event the Company’s ratings are downgraded, the Company’s competitive position, ability to access financing, and its cost of borrowing, may be adversely impacted.

On June 19, 2020, A.M. Best raised its financial strength rating on Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company ("HLA") to A+ from A. The upgrade is reflective of the support provided by The Hartford, as well as the group benefits business' growing contribution to consolidated revenue and earnings and the overall diversification it provides.
Insurance Financial Strength Ratings as of February 18, 2021

-------------------------------------------- --------- ----------------- ---------
 A.M. Best Standard & Poor's Moody's
Hartford Fire Insurance Company A+ A+ A1
Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company A+ A+ A2
Navigators Insurance Company A+ A Not Rated
Other Ratings:
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:
Senior debt a- BBB+ Baa1

These ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any of The Hartford’s securities and they may be revised or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the rating organization. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary across rating agencies.
Among other factors, rating agencies consider the level of statutory capital and surplus of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries as well as the level of a measure of GAAP capital held by the Company in determining the Company's financial strength and credit ratings. Rating agencies may implement changes to their capital formulas that have the effect of increasing the amount of capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors — “Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt.”

116

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Statutory Capital

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ----- - ------- - ------
U.S. Statutory Capital Rollforward for the Company's Insurance Subsidiaries
 Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries [1] [2] Group Benefits Insurance Subsidiary Total
U.S. statutory capital at January 1, 2020 $ 10,208 $ 2,644 $ 12,852
Statutory income 1,598 310 1,908
Contributions from (dividends to) parent [3] (898) (350) (1,248)
Other items (113) (3) (116)
Net change to U.S. statutory capital 587 (43) 544
U.S. statutory capital at December 31, 2020 $ 10,795 $ 2,601 $ 13,396

[1]The statutory capital for property and casualty insurance subsidiaries in this table does not include the value of an intercompany note owed by HHI to Hartford Fire Insurance Company.
[2]Excludes insurance operations in the U.K. and Continental Europe.
[3]P&C insurance subsidiaries dividends to Parent of $898 includes $900 of net dividends from P&C subsidiaries, offset by $2 related to the interest on the HHI note.

Stat to GAAP Differences
Significant differences between U.S. GAAP stockholders’ equity and aggregate statutory capital prepared in accordance with U.S. STAT include the following:
•U.S. STAT excludes equity of non-insurance and foreign insurance subsidiaries not held by U.S. insurance subsidiaries.
•Costs incurred by the Company to acquire insurance policies are deferred under U.S. GAAP while those costs are expensed immediately under U.S. STAT.
•Temporary differences between the book and tax basis of an asset or liability which are recorded as deferred tax assets are evaluated for recoverability under U.S. GAAP while these amounts are then subject to further admissibility tests under U.S. STAT.
•The assumptions used in the determination of Group Benefits reserves (i.e. for Group Benefits contracts) are prescribed under U.S. STAT, while the assumptions used under U.S. GAAP are generally the Company’s best estimates.
•The difference between the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity and other investments, net of tax, is recorded as an increase or decrease to the carrying value of the related asset and to equity under U.S. GAAP, while, under U.S. STAT, most investments are carried at amortized cost with only certain securities carried at fair value, such as equity securities and certain lower rated bonds required by the NAIC to be recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair value.
•U.S. STAT for life insurance companies like HLA establishes a formula reserve for realized and unrealized losses due to default and equity risks associated with certain invested assets (the Asset Valuation Reserve), while U.S. GAAP does not. Also, for those realized gains and losses caused by changes in interest rates, U.S. STAT for life insurance companies defers and amortizes the gains and losses, caused by changes in interest rates, into income over the original life to maturity of the asset sold (the Interest Maintenance Reserve) while U.S. GAAP does not.

•Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a business is tested for recoverability on an annual basis (or more frequently, as necessary) for U.S. GAAP, while under U.S. STAT goodwill is amortized over a period not to exceed 10 years and the amount of goodwill admitted as an asset is limited.
•The deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance for losses ceded to the Navigators and A&E ADC agreements is recognized within a special category of surplus under U.S. STAT but is recognized within other liabilities under U.S. GAAP.
In addition, certain assets, including a portion of premiums receivable and fixed assets, are non-admitted (recorded at zero value and charged against surplus) under U.S. STAT. U.S. GAAP generally evaluates assets based on their recoverability.

Risk-Based Capital
The Company's U.S. insurance companies' states of domicile impose RBC requirements. The requirements provide a means of measuring the minimum amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations based on its size and risk profile. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. All of the Company's U.S. operating insurance subsidiaries had RBC ratios in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable insurance regulations.
Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which the Company operates generally establish minimum solvency requirements for insurance companies. All of the Company's international insurance subsidiaries expect to maintain capital levels in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities.

Sensitivity
In any particular period, statutory capital amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending upon a variety of factors. The amount of change in the statutory capital or RBC ratios can vary based on individual factors and may be compounded in extreme scenarios or if multiple factors occur at the same time. At times the impact of changes in certain market factors or a combination of multiple factors on RBC ratios can be counterintuitive. For further discussion on these factors, see

117

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management, Financial Risk on Statutory Capital.
Statutory capital at the insurance subsidiaries has been maintained at capital levels commensurate with the Company's desired RBC ratios and ratings from rating agencies. The amount of statutory capital can increase or decrease depending on a number of factors affecting insurance results including, among other factors, the level of catastrophe claims incurred, the amount of reserve development, the effect of changes in interest rates on investment income and the discounting of loss reserves, and the effect of realized gains and losses on investments.

Contingencies
Legal Proceedings
For a discussion regarding contingencies related to The Hartford’s legal proceedings, see the information
contained under “Litigation” and “Run-off Asbestos and Environmental Claims,” in Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Legislative and Regulatory Developments
COVID-19 Global Pandemic
State and federal retroactive business interruption coverage and other insurance regulatory relief initiatives - State and federal lawmakers are continuing to consider legislation and regulation in response to COVID-19. There have been proposals to impose retroactive coverage of COVID-19 claims under existing business interruption coverage provisions. If such proposals were enacted, they could represent a material exposure for the Company. Further, some states have adopted, or are considering incorporating, a presumption that if certain workers become infected with COVID-19, such infection would constitute an occupational disease triggering workers’ compensation coverage. In addition, state insurance regulators, including California, New Jersey and New York, have encouraged (and in some cases required) insurers to offer immediate relief to policyholders including refunding and offering discounts for drivers, incorporating flexible payment solutions for families, individuals, and businesses, providing additional time to make payments, waiving insurance premium late fees, pausing cancellation of coverage for personal and commercial policies due to non-payment and policy expiration, and suspending personal automobile exclusions for restaurant employees who are transitioning to meal delivery services using their personal automobile policy as coverage. The Hartford has offered consumer financial relief including a 15 percent refund on policyholders’ April and May 2020 personal automobile insurance premiums, waived late payments fees for a period of time for business and personal insurance customers and temporarily suspended policy cancellations for policyholders of our Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Group Benefits segments. As the COVID-19 global pandemic continues, regulators may require us to or we may elect to provide additional consumer and/or business financial relief. The duration and scope of such regulatory/Company actions are uncertain, and the impacts of

such actions could adversely affect the Company’s insurance business.
Federal pandemic risk insurance - Congress is considering possible action for future pandemic risk insurance coverage through a risk sharing mechanism between insurers and the federal government. Timing for any Congressional action with respect to these efforts is uncertain at this time. If such a program were to be enacted, it could represent a significant obligation for the company in terms of deductible and co-share obligations.
Federal emergency leave legislation - On March 18, 2020, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act ("FFCRA") was signed into law by the President, and was effective from April 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020. This legislation included a number of funding provisions and worker protections including mandated emergency paid sick leave and paid family and medical leave programs. For private employers with fewer than 500 employees, and most public employers, new programs were put in place to guarantee individuals 10 days of paid sick leave, and up to 10 weeks of paid family and medical leave to deal directly with COVID-19. Eligible employers have access to a tax credit to reimburse for costs related to the emergency leave programs. On December 27, 2020, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 was signed into law and included a bipartisan COVID-19 relief bill. Although the mandatory paid leave provisions from the FFCRA expired on December 31, 2020, the new law extends FFCRA tax credits through March 31, 2021, for covered employers that voluntarily continue to offer paid leave under the FFCRA framework. The Hartford is providing support for the administration of the family and medical leave component of the FFCRA for our Group Benefits customers. Congress also approved a $2 trillion Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security ("CARES") Act. The bill, signed into law on March 27, 2020, focused on providing financial support for small businesses, individuals, emergency workers, airlines and other industries of national security. The CARES Act included several technical corrections to the emergency leave programs and created advance refunding credits, which allow the U.S. Treasury to develop regulations or guidance to permit advancement of the tax credit for both the emergency paid sick leave and paid family and medical leave. While any further Congressional action could trigger a significant increase in claims volume and compliance requirements for Group Benefits, the timing of additional legislation is unclear at this time.
Federal tax legislation - In response to the COVID-19 Global Pandemic, Congress, various states and other global jurisdictions have passed various pieces of legislation which contain various changes to the tax laws in order to aid impacted businesses and individuals, as well as provide economic stimulus. The Company deferred the employer’s portion of the Social Security tax on wages from March 27, 2020 to year-end 2020. Such deferred amounts would be due and payable over a two-year period, 50% by December 31, 2021 and 50% by December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the impact of these new tax laws on the Company. The U.S. Treasury and IRS continue to develop guidance implementing these new tax law provisions, and Congress may consider additional technical corrections to these laws. Tax proposals and regulatory initiatives which have been or are being considered by Congress and/or the U.S. Treasury Department could have a material effect on the Company and its insurance businesses. The nature and timing of any Congressional or regulatory action with respect to any such efforts is unclear.

118

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the "Affordable Care Act") It is unclear whether the Administration, Congress or the courts will seek to reverse, amend or alter the ongoing operation of the Affordable Care Act ("ACA"). If such actions were to occur, they may have an impact on various aspects of our business, including our insurance businesses. It is unclear what an amended ACA would entail, and to what extent there may be a transition period for the phase out of the ACA. The impact to The Hartford as an employer would be consistent with other large employers. The Hartford’s core business does not involve the issuance of health insurance, and we have not observed any material impacts on the Company’s workers’ compensation business or group benefits business from the enactment of the ACA. We will continue to monitor the impact of the ACA and any reforms on consumer, broker and medical provider behavior for leading indicators of changes in medical costs or loss payments primarily on the Company's workers' compensation and disability liabilities.
Tax Reform At the end of 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("TCJA") was enacted. The TCJA made significant reforms to the U.S. tax code. The major areas of interest to the Company included the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and the repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) and the refunding of AMT credits. The U.S. Treasury and IRS continue to develop guidance implementing TCJA, and Congress may consider additional technical corrections to the law. In addition, President Biden has indicated he will propose to

increase the corporate tax rate to as high as 28% and revisit other aspects of TCJA. Tax proposals and regulatory initiatives which have been or are being considered by Congress and/or the U.S. Treasury Department could have a material effect on the Company and its insurance businesses. The nature and timing of any Congressional or regulatory action with respect to any such efforts is unclear. For additional information on risks to the Company related to TCJA, see the risk factor entitled "Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity" under "Risk Factors" in Part I.
Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments
For a discussion regarding Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments, see Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
For a discussion of accounting standards, see Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

119

ACRONYMS

------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A&E Asbestos and Environmental HHI Hartford Holdings, Inc.
ABS Asset Backed Securities HIMCO Hartford Investment Management Company
ACL Allowance for Credit Losses IBNR Incurred But Not Reported
ADC Adverse Development Cover IT Information Technology
AFS Available-For-Sale LCL Liability for Credit Losses
ALAE Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
AMT Alternative Minimum Tax LTD Long-Term Disability
AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income LTV Loan-to-Value
AUM Assets Under Management MD&A Management's Discussion and Analysis
CAY Current Accident Year NAIC National Association of Insurance Commissioners
CLO Collateralized Loan Obligation NIC Navigators Insurance Company
CMBS Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities NICO National Indemnity Company, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire”)
CMT Crisis Management Team NM Not Meaningful
DAC Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs NOLs Net Operating Loss Carryforwards or Carrybacks
DLR Disabled Life Reserve NSIC Navigators Specialty Insurance Company
DSCR Debt Service Coverage Ratio OCI Other Comprehensive Income
ERCC Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee OTC Over-the-Counter
ESPP The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan P&C Property and Casualty
ETF Exchange-Traded Funds PG&E PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company
ETP Exchange-Traded Products PYD Prior Year Development
FAL Funds at Lloyd's RBC Risk-Based Capital
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board RMBS Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities
FHLBB Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston ROE Return on Equity
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles SCR Solvency Capital Requirement
GB Group Benefits SOFR Secured Overnight Funding Rate
HFSG The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ULAE Unallocated Loss Adjustment Expenses

120

Table of Contents

Part II - Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures
The Company's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer, based on their evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the purposes set forth in the definition thereof in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of December 31, 2020.
Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting
The management of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“The Hartford”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for The Hartford as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Hartford's management assessed its internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 in relation to criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013)” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment under those criteria, The Hartford's management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting
There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company's fourth fiscal quarter of 2020 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. We have not experienced any material impact to our internal controls over financial reporting despite the fact that most employees of the Company and of our vendors have had to work from home during the COVID-19 pandemic though we will continue to assess the impact on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls.
Attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm
The Hartford's independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has issued their attestation report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting which is set forth below.

121

Table of Contents

Part II - Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Hartford, Connecticut
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, of the Company and our report dated February 19, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Hartford, Connecticut
February 19, 2021

122

Table of Contents

Part III - Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of The Hartford

Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE HARTFORD

Certain of the information called for by Item 10 will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement for the 2021 annual meeting of stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”) to be filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K under the captions and subcaptions “Board and Governance Matters”, and “Director Nominees" and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which is applicable to all employees of the Company, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on the investor relations section of the Company’s website at: http://ir.thehartford.com.

Any waiver of, or material amendment to, the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct will be posted promptly to our web site in accordance with applicable NYSE and SEC rules.
Executive Officers of The Hartford
Information about the executive officers of The Hartford who are also nominees for election as directors will be set forth in The Hartford’s Proxy Statement. Set forth below is information about the other executive officers of the Company as of February 10, 2021:

------------------- --- -------------------------------------

Name Age Position with The Hartford and Business Experience For the Past Five Years
Jonathan R. Bennett 56 Executive Vice President and Head of Group Benefits (August 2019 - Present); Chief Financial Officer and Head of Strategy for Property and Casualty and Group Benefits (October, 2012-August 2019)
William A. Bloom 57 Executive Vice President of Operations and Technology (August 2014 - present); President of Global Client Services, EXL (July 2010-July 2014)
Kathleen M. Bromage 63 Chief Marketing and Communications Officer (June 2015-present)
Beth A. Costello 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (July 2014-present)
Douglas G. Elliot 60 President (July 2014-present)

Scott R. Lewis 58 Senior Vice President and Controller (May 2013-present)
Robert W. Paiano 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer (June 2017-Present); Senior Vice President & Treasurer (July 2010-May 2017)
David C. Robinson 55 Executive Vice President and General Counsel (June 2015-present)
Lori A. Rodden 50 Executive Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer (October 2019-present); Senior Vice President and Lead Human Resources Business Partner for Property & Casualty, Group Benefits, Claims and Actuarial (April 2016 to October 2019) and Vice President and Lead Human Resources for Middle Market, Large Commercial, Sales & Distribution and underwriting (November 2014 to April 2016)
Amy M. Stepnowski 52 Executive Vice President Chief Investment Officer (August 2020-Present); President of Hartford Investment Management Company (August 2020-Present); Managing Director and Head of Public Credit Research Hartford Investment Management Company (September 2008-August 2020)

123

Table of Contents

Part III - Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Certain of the information called for by Item 12 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Information on Stock Ownership” and is incorporated herein by reference.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The following table provides information as of December 31, 2020 about the securities authorized for issuance under the Company’s equity compensation plans. The Company maintains The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the “2005 Stock Plan”), The Hartford 2010 Incentive Stock Plan (the “2010 Stock Plan”), The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan (the "2014 Stock Plan"), the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2020 Stock Plan") (collectively the "Stock Plans") and The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”).

On May 20, 2020, the stockholders of the Company approved the 2020 Stock Plan, which superseded the earlier plans. Pursuant to the provisions of the 2020 Stock Plan, no additional shares may be issued from the 2014 Stock Plan. To the extent that any awards under the 2005 Stock Plan, the 2010 Stock Plan and the 2014 Stock Plan are forfeited, terminated, surrendered, exchanged, expire unexercised or are settled in cash in lieu of stock (including to effect tax withholding) or for the issuance of a lesser number of shares than the number of shares subject to the award, the shares subject to such awards (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for award under the 2020 Stock Plan and such shares shall be added to the total number of shares available under the 2020 Stock Plan. For a description of the 2020 Stock Plan and the ESPP, see Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- - ----------
 (a) (b) (c)
 Number of Securitiesto be Issued Upon Exercise ofOutstanding Options,Warrants and Rights [1] Weighted-averageExercise Price of OutstandingOptions, Warrantsand Rights [2] Number of Securities RemainingAvailable for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans(Excluding Securities Reflected inColumn (a)) [3]
Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders 11,348,877 $ 45.54 15,478,958
Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders — — —

Total 11,348,877 $ 45.54 15,478,958

[1]The amount shown in this column includes 6,693,188 outstanding options awarded under the 2005 Stock Plan, the 2010 Stock Plan, the 2014 Stock Plan and the 2020 Stock Plan. The amount shown in this column includes 3,866,452 outstanding restricted stock units and 789,237 outstanding performance shares at 100% of target (which excludes 276,434 shares that vested on December 27, 2020, related to the 2018-2020 performance period) as of December 31, 2020 under the 2014 Stock Plan and the 2020 Stock Plan. The maximum number of performance shares that could be awarded is 1,578,474 (200% of target) if the Company achieved the highest performance level. Under the 2014 and 2020 Stock Plans, no more than 500,000 shares in the aggregate can be earned by an individual employee with respect to restricted stock unit and performance share awards made in a single calendar year. As a result, the number of shares ultimately distributed to an employee with respect to awards made in the same year will be reduced, if necessary, so that the number does not exceed this limit.
[2]The weighted-average exercise price reflects outstanding options and does not reflect outstanding restricted stock units or performance shares because they do not have exercise prices.
[3]Of these shares, 3,743,847 remain available for purchase under the ESPP as of December 31, 2020. 11,735,111 shares remain available for issuance as options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards or performance shares under the 2020 Stock Plan as of December 31, 2020.

124

Table of Contents

Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)     Documents filed as a part of this report:

(1)Consolidated Financial Statements. See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

(2)Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules. See Index to Consolidated Financial Statement and Schedules elsewhere herein.

(3)Exhibits. See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----
DESCRIPTION PAGE
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statements of Operations — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 128
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 129
Consolidated Balance Sheets — As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 130
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 131
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 132
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies 133
Note 2 - Business Acquisitions 142
Note 3 - Earnings (Loss) per Share 144
Note 4 - Segment Information 145
Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements 148
Note 6 - Investments 157
Note 7 - Derivatives 165
Note 8 - Premiums Receivable 170
Note 9 - Reinsurance 171
Note 10 - Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs 174
Note 11 - Goodwill & Other Intangible Assets 174
Note 12 - Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses 176
Note 13 - Reserve for Future Policy Benefits 200
Note 14 - Debt 201
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies 204
Note 16 - Equity 207
Note 17 - Income Taxes 209
Note 18 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax 210
Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans 212
Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans 219
Note 21 - Leases 222
Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations 223
Note 23 - Restructuring and Other Costs 225
Note 24 - Quarterly Results (Unaudited) 226
SCHEDULES
Schedule I — Summary of Investments — Other Than Investments in Affiliates 227
Schedule II — Condensed Financial Information of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. 228
Schedule III — Supplementary Insurance Information 231
Schedule IV — Reinsurance 233
Schedule V — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 234
Schedule VI — Supplemental Information Concerning Property and Casualty Insurance Operations 235

125

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Hartford, Connecticut
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes and the schedules listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 19, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved especially challenging, subjective, or complex audit judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses - Refer to Notes 1 and 12 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
For property and casualty and group life and disability insurance products, the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims under insurance policies written by the Company. These reserves include estimates for both claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not reported and include estimates of all losses and loss adjustment expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. This estimation process is based significantly on the assumption that past developments are an appropriate predictor of future events and involves a variety of actuarial techniques that analyze experience, trends and other relevant factors.
Given the subjectivity of estimating the ultimate cost to settle the liabilities for reported and unreported claims due to uncertainties caused by various factors including frequency and severity of claims as well as changes in the legislative and regulatory environment, performing audit procedures to evaluate whether unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses were appropriately recorded as of December 31, 2020, required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our actuarial specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses included the following, among others:
•We tested the effectiveness of controls related to the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including controls over inputs, methods, and assumptions used in the Company's estimation processes.
•We tested the underlying data that served as the basis for the Company’s analysis, including historical claims.

126

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

•With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, we evaluated the methods and assumptions used by the Company to estimate the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses by:
•Comparing the Company’s prior year assumptions of expected development of ultimate loss to actual losses incurred during the current year to identify potential management bias in the determination of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses.
•Assessing the reasonableness of the Company’s analysis, and for selected reserving lines, developing independent estimates of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and comparing such estimates to the Company’s estimates.
Investments in Fixed Maturities Classified as Available-for-Sale - Refer to Notes 5 and 6 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
Investments in fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value in the financial statements. The investments without readily determinable fair values were valued using significant unobservable inputs, such as credit spreads and interest rates beyond the observable curve, that involved considerable judgment by the Company.
Given the Company used models and unobservable inputs to estimate the fair value of investments in fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale, performing audit procedures to evaluate these inputs required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the models and unobservable inputs used by the Company to estimate the fair value of investments in fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale included the following, among others:
•We tested the effectiveness of controls over the valuation of investments in fixed maturities classified as available-for-sale, including controls over inputs, methods, and assumptions used in the Company’s estimation processes.
•On a sample basis, we tested the accuracy and completeness of the investments owned as of December 31, 2020, and the relevant security attributes used in the determination of their fair values.
•With the assistance of our fair value specialists, for a sample of investments, we tested the mathematical accuracy of the fair value calculation and developed independent estimates of the fair value and compared our estimates to the Company’s estimates. In addition to developing independent estimates, we obtained an understanding of the models and inputs used by the Company and assessed those models and inputs for reasonableness. Such assessment included comparing inputs to external sources or developing independent inputs.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Hartford, Connecticut
February 19, 2021
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2002.

127

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Operations

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ------ ------ - ------ - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
(in millions, except for per share data) 2020 2019 2018
Revenues
Earned premiums $ 17,288 $ 16,923 $ 15,869
Fee income 1,277 1,301 1,313
Net investment income 1,846 1,951 1,780
Net realized capital gains (losses) (14) 395 (112)
Other revenues 126 170 105
Total revenues 20,523 20,740 18,955
Benefits, losses and expenses
Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses 11,805 11,472 11,165
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") 1,706 1,622 1,384
Insurance operating costs and other expenses 4,480 4,580 4,281
Loss on extinguishment of debt — 90 6
Loss on reinsurance transaction — 91 —
Interest expense 236 259 298
Amortization of other intangible assets 72 66 68
Restructuring and other costs 104 — —

Total benefits, losses and expenses 18,403 18,180 17,202
Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,120 2,560 1,753
Income tax expense 383 475 268
Income from continuing operations, net of tax 1,737 2,085 1,485
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax — — 322
Net income $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,807
Preferred stock dividends 21 21 6
Net income available to common stockholders $ 1,716 $ 2,064 $ 1,801

Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders per common share
Basic $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 4.13
Diluted $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.06
Net income available to common stockholders per common share
Basic $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 5.03
Diluted $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.95

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

128

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ----- --- ------- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net income $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,807
Other comprehensive income (loss):
Change in net unrealized gain on fixed maturities 1,150 1,660 (2,180)
Change in unrealized losses on fixed maturities for which an allowance for credit losses ("ACL") has been recorded 1
Change in other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") losses recognized in other comprehensive income ("OCI") 1 (1)
Change in net gain on cash flow hedging instruments 3 14 (25)
Change in foreign currency translation adjustments 9 4 (8)
Change in pension and other postretirement plan adjustments (45) (48) (23)
OCI, net of tax 1,118 1,631 (2,237)
Comprehensive income (loss) $ 2,855 $ 3,716 $ (430)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

129

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Balance Sheets

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------ ------- - ------
 As of December 31,
(in millions, except for share and per share data) 2020 2019
Assets
Investments:
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value (amortized cost of $41,561 and $40,078, and ACL of $23 and $—) $ 45,035 $ 42,148

Equity securities, at fair value 1,438 1,657

Mortgage loans (net of ACL of $38 and $—) 4,493 4,215

Limited partnerships and other alternative investments 2,082 1,758
Other investments 201 331
Short-term investments 3,283 2,921
Total investments 56,532 53,030
Cash 151 185
Restricted Cash 88 77
Premiums receivable and agents' balances (net of ACL of $152 and $145) 4,268 4,384
Reinsurance recoverables (net of allowance for uncollectible reinsurance of $108 and $114) 6,011 5,527
Deferred policy acquisition costs 789 785
Deferred income taxes, net 46 299
Goodwill 1,911 1,913
Property and equipment, net 1,122 1,181
Other intangible assets, net 950 1,070
Other assets 2,066 2,366
Assets held for sale 177 —

Total assets $ 74,111 $ 70,817
Liabilities
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses $ 37,855 $ 36,517
Reserve for future policy benefits 638 635
Other policyholder funds and benefits payable 701 755
Unearned premiums 6,629 6,635
Short-term debt — 500
Long-term debt 4,352 4,348
Other liabilities 5,222 5,157
Liabilities held for sale 158 —

Total liabilities 55,555 54,547
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 15)
Stockholders’ Equity
Preferred stock, $0.01 par value — 50,000,000 shares authorized, 13,800 shares issued at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, aggregate liquidation preference of $345 334 334
Common stock, $0.01 par value — 1,500,000,000 shares authorized, 384,923,222 shares issued at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 4 4
Additional paid-in capital 4,322 4,312
Retained earnings 13,918 12,685
Treasury stock, at cost — 26,434,682 and 25,352,977 shares (1,192) (1,117)
Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax 1,170 52
Total stockholders' equity 18,556 16,270
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 74,111 $ 70,817

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

130

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------- ------- - -------- - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
(in millions, except for share and per share data) 2020 2019 2018
Preferred Stock
Preferred Stock, beginning of period $ 334 $ 334 $ —
Issuance of preferred stock — — 334
Preferred Stock, end of period 334 334 334
Common Stock 4 4 4
Additional Paid-in Capital
Additional Paid-in Capital, beginning of period 4,312 4,378 4,379
Issuance of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans (96) (100) (110)
Stock-based compensation plans expense 106 114 123

Issuance of shares for warrant exercise — (80) (14)

Additional Paid-in Capital, end of period 4,322 4,312 4,378
Retained Earnings
Retained Earnings, beginning of period 12,685 11,055 9,642
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax (18) — 5
Adjusted balance beginning of period 12,667 11,055 9,647
Net income 1,737 2,085 1,807
Dividends declared on preferred stock (21) (21) (6)
Dividends declared on common stock (465) (434) (393)
Retained Earnings, end of period 13,918 12,685 11,055
Treasury Stock, at cost
Treasury Stock, at cost, beginning of period (1,117) (1,091) (1,194)
Treasury stock acquired (150) (200) —

Issuance of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans 112 135 132
Net shares acquired related to employee incentive and stock compensation plans (37) (41) (43)
Issuance of shares for warrant exercise — 80 14
Treasury Stock, at cost, end of period (1,192) (1,117) (1,091)
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net of tax
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net of tax, beginning of period 52 (1,579) 663
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax — — (5)
Adjusted balance beginning of period 52 (1,579) 658
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 1,118 1,631 (2,237)
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, net of tax, end of period 1,170 52 (1,579)
Total Stockholders’ Equity $ 18,556 $ 16,270 $ 13,101

Preferred Shares Outstanding
Preferred Shares Outstanding, beginning of period 13,800 13,800 —
Issuance of preferred shares — — 13,800
Preferred Shares Outstanding, end of period 13,800 13,800 13,800
Common Shares Outstanding
Common Shares Outstanding, beginning of period (in thousands) 359,570 359,151 356,835
Treasury stock acquired (2,661) (3,412) —
Issuance of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans 2,298 2,906 2,856
Return of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans to treasury stock (718) (796) (849)
Issuance of shares for warrant exercise — 1,721 309
Common Shares Outstanding, end of period 358,489 359,570 359,151
Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.30 $ 1.20 $ 1.10
Cash dividends declared per preferred share $ 1,500.00 $ 1,500.00 $ 412.50

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

131

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- -------- - -------- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Operating Activities
Net income $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,807
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities
Net realized capital losses (gains) (34) (395) 165
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 1,706 1,622 1,442
Additions to deferred policy acquisition costs (1,666) (1,635) (1,404)
Depreciation and amortization 562 451 467

Loss on extinguishment of debt — 90 6
Loss (gain) on sale of business 48 — (202)
Other operating activities, net 85 76 408
Change in assets and liabilities:
Increase in reinsurance recoverables (540) (81) (323)
Net change in accrued and deferred income taxes 459 886 (103)

Increase in insurance liabilities 1,426 768 493

Net change in other assets and other liabilities 88 (378) 87

Net cash provided by operating activities 3,871 3,489 2,843
Investing Activities
Proceeds from the sale/maturity/prepayment of:
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale 19,534 18,499 24,700

Equity securities at fair value 1,485 1,553 1,230

Mortgage loans 948 771 483
Partnerships 167 238 433
Payments for the purchase of:
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale (21,112) (19,881) (23,173)

Equity securities at fair value (962) (1,316) (1,500)

Mortgage loans (1,264) (1,275) (983)
Partnerships (491) (303) (481)
Net proceeds from (payments for) derivatives 112 32 (224)

Net additions to property and equipment (114) (105) (122)
Net proceeds from (payments for) from short-term investments (368) 1,491 (3,460)
Other investing activities, net (1) 49 20

Proceeds from businesses sold, net of cash transferred — — 1,115
Amounts paid for business acquired, net of cash acquired — (1,901) —
Net cash used for investing activities (2,066) (2,148) (1,962)
Financing Activities
Deposits and other additions to investment and universal life-type contracts 60 123 1,814
Withdrawals and other deductions from investment and universal life-type contracts (102) (124) (9,210)
Net transfers from separate accounts related to investment and universal life-type contracts — — 6,949
Repayments at maturity or settlement of consumer notes — — (2)
Net decrease in securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (587) (323) (621)

Repayment of debt (500) (1,583) (826)
Proceeds from the issuance of debt — 1,376 490
Preferred stock issued, net of issuance costs — — 334
Net return of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans (21) (6) (16)
Treasury stock acquired (150) (200) —
Dividends paid on preferred stock (21) (21) —
Dividends paid on common stock (457) (433) (379)

Net cash used for financing activities (1,778) (1,191) (1,467)
Foreign exchange rate effect on cash 8 (9) (10)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and restricted cash, including cash classified within assets held for sale 35 141 (596)
Less: Net increase (decrease) in cash classified as assets held for sale 58 — (537)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and restricted cash (23) 141 (59)
Cash and restricted cash — beginning of period 262 121 180
Cash and restricted cash — end of period $ 239 $ 262 $ 121
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information
Income tax received $ 71 $ 396 $ 9
Interest paid $ 232 $ 261 $ 292

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

132

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company for insurance and financial services subsidiaries that provide property and casualty insurance, group life and disability products and mutual funds and exchange-traded products to individual and business customers in the United States as well as in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and other international locations (collectively, “The Hartford”, the “Company”, “we” or “our”).
On September 30, 2020, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell all of the issued and outstanding equity of Navigators Holdings (Europe) N.V., a Belgium holding company, and its subsidiaries, Bracht, Deckers & Mackelbert N.V. (“BDM”) and Assurances Contintales Contintale Verzekeringen N.V. (“ASCO”), (collectively referred to as "Continental Europe Operations"). For further discussion of this transaction, see Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
On May 23, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of The Navigators Group, Inc. ("Navigators Group"), a global specialty underwriter, for $70 a share, or $2.137 billion in cash, including transaction expenses.
On May 31, 2018, Hartford Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the sale of the issued and outstanding equity of Hartford Life, Inc. (“HLI”), a holding company, for its life and annuity operating subsidiaries.
For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 2 - Business Acquisitions and Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) which differ materially from the accounting practices prescribed by various insurance regulatory authorities.
Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., and entities in which the Company directly or indirectly has a controlling financial interest. Entities in which the Company has significant influence over the operating and financing decisions but does not control are reported using the equity method. Intercompany transactions and balances between The Hartford and its subsidiaries and affiliates have been eliminated.
Discontinued Operations
The results of operations of a component of the Company are reported in discontinued operations when certain criteria are met as of the date of disposal, or earlier if classified as held-for-sale. When a component is identified for discontinued operations reporting, amounts for prior periods are retrospectively reclassified as discontinued operations. Components are identified as discontinued operations if they are a major part of an entity's operations and financial results such as a separate major

line of business or a separate major geographical area of operations.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The most significant estimates include those used in determining property and casualty and group long-term disability insurance product reserves, net of reinsurance; evaluation of goodwill for impairment; valuation of investments and derivative instruments; and contingencies relating to corporate litigation and regulatory matters.
The novel strain of coronavirus, specifically identified as the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (“COVID-19”), has created significant uncertainty in the global economy. There have been no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect a global pandemic of this scale may have. As a result, the ultimate impact of COVID-19 and the extent to which COVID-19 continues to impact the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on the duration and severity of the pandemic, the duration and severity of the economic downturn and the degree to which federal, state and local government actions to mitigate the economic impact of COVID-19 are effective. Our estimates, judgments and assumptions related to COVID-19 could ultimately differ over time.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to conform to the current year presentation.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards
Reclassification of Effect of Tax Rate Change from AOCI to Retained Earnings
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board's ("FASB") new guidance for the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities related to items recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("Tax Reform") enacted on December 22, 2017. Tax Reform reduced the federal tax rate applied to the Company’s deferred tax balances from 35% to 21% on enactment. Under U.S. GAAP, the Company recorded the total effect of the change in enacted tax rates on

133

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

deferred tax balances as a charge to income tax expense within net income during the fourth quarter of 2017, including the change in deferred tax balances related to components of AOCI. The new accounting guidance permitted the Company to reclassify the “stranded” tax effects out of AOCI and into retained earnings that resulted from recording the tax effects of unrealized investment gains, unrecognized actuarial losses on pension and other postretirement benefit plans, and cumulative translation adjustments at a 35% tax rate because the 14 point reduction in tax rate was recognized in net income instead of other comprehensive income. On adoption, the Company recorded a reclassification of $88 from AOCI to retained earnings. As a result of the reclassification, in the first quarter of 2018, the Company reduced the estimated loss on sale recorded in income from discontinued operations by $193, net of tax, for the increase in AOCI related to the assets held for sale. The reduction in the loss on sale resulted in a corresponding increase in assets held for sale and AOCI as of January 1, 2018 and the AOCI associated with assets held for sale was removed from the balance sheet when the sale closed on May 31, 2018. Additionally, as of January 1, 2018, the Company reclassified $105 of stranded tax effects related to continuing operations which reduced AOCI and increased retained earnings.
Financial Instruments- Recognition and Measurement
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted updated guidance issued by the FASB for the recognition and measurement of financial instruments through a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balances of retained earnings and AOCI. The new guidance requires investments in equity securities to be measured at fair value with any changes in valuation reported in net income except for investments that are consolidated or are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The new guidance also requires a deferred tax asset resulting from net unrealized losses on fixed maturities, available-for-sale that are recognized in AOCI to be evaluated for recoverability in combination with the Company’s other deferred tax assets. Under prior guidance, the Company reported equity securities, available-for-sale ("AFS"), at fair value with changes in fair value reported in other comprehensive income. As of January 1, 2018, the Company reclassified from AOCI to retained earnings net unrealized gains of $83, after tax, related to equity securities having a fair value of $1.0 billion. In addition, $10 of net unrealized gains net of shadow DAC related to discontinued operations were reclassified from AOCI to retained earnings of the life and annuity business held for sale, which increased the estimated loss on sale in 2018 by the same amount. Beginning in 2018, the Company reports equity securities at fair value with changes in fair value reported in net realized capital gains and losses.
Revenue Recognition
On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the FASB’s updated guidance for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers, which excludes insurance contracts and financial instruments. Revenue subject to the guidance is recognized when, or as, goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that an entity is expected to receive in exchange for those goods or services. For all but certain revenues associated with our Hartford Funds business, the updated guidance is consistent with previous guidance for the Company’s

transactions and did not have an effect on the Company’s financial position, cash flows or net income. The updated guidance also updated criteria for determining when the Company acts as a principal or an agent.
Qualitative information about the nature, timing of recognition and cash flows for the Company’s revenues subject to the updated guidance is disclosed below under Significant Accounting Policies-Revenue Recognition and quantitative information is disclosed in Note 4 - Segment Information.
Hedging Activities
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB's updated guidance for hedge accounting through a cumulative effect adjustment of less than $1 to reclassify cumulative ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges from retained earnings to AOCI. The updates allow hedge accounting for new types of interest rate hedges of financial instruments and simplify documentation requirements to qualify for hedge accounting. In addition, any gain or loss from hedge ineffectiveness is reported in the same income statement line with the effective hedge results and the hedged transaction. For cash flow hedges, the ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings only when the hedged transaction affects earnings; otherwise, the ineffectiveness gains or losses remain in AOCI. Under previous accounting, total hedge ineffectiveness was reported separately in realized capital gains and losses apart from the hedged transaction. The adoption did not affect the Company’s financial position or cash flows or have a material effect on net income.
Leases
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB’s updated lease guidance. Under the updated guidance, lessees with operating leases are required to recognize a liability for the present value of future minimum lease payments with a corresponding asset for the right of use of the property. Prior to the new guidance, future minimum lease payments on operating leases were commitments that were not recognized as liabilities on the balance sheet. Leases are classified as financing or operating leases. Where the lease is economically similar to a purchase because The Hartford obtains control of the underlying asset, the lease is classified as a financing lease and the Company recognizes amortization of the right of use asset and interest expense on the liability. Where the lease provides The Hartford with only the right to control the use of the underlying asset over the lease term and the lease term is greater than one year, the lease is an operating lease and the lease cost is recognized as rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis. Leases with a term of one year or less are also expensed over the lease term but not recognized on the balance sheet. On adoption, The Hartford recorded a lease payment obligation of $160 for outstanding leases and a right of use asset of $150, which is net of $10 in lease incentives received, with no change to comparative periods. As permitted by the new guidance, as of the implementation date, the Company did not reassess whether expired or existing contracts are leases or contain leases, did not change the classification of expired or existing operating leases, and did not reassess initial direct costs for existing leases to determine if deferred costs should be written-off or recorded on adoption. The adoption did not impact net income or cash flows.

134

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Goodwill
On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted the FASB's updated guidance on testing goodwill for impairment with no effect at adoption. The updated guidance requires impairment of goodwill if the carrying value of the reporting unit is greater than the estimated fair value, with the amount of the impairment not to exceed the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that a triggering event for a potential impairment has occurred. Under the updated guidance, changes in market-based factors are more likely to result in a goodwill impairment than under the prior accounting guidance, whether a reporting unit's fair value is estimated using an income approach or a market approach. For example, changes in the weighted average cost of capital that is used to discount expected cash flows under the income approach or changes in market-based factors such as peer company price to earnings multiples or price to book multiples under a market approach can significantly affect changes to the estimated fair value of each reporting unit and such changes could result in impairments that have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Financial Instruments - Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted the FASB’s updated guidance for recognition and measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The new guidance replaces the “incurred loss” approach with an “expected loss” model for recognizing credit losses for financial instruments carried at other than fair value. Under the new model, for financial instruments carried at other than fair value, such as mortgage loans, reinsurance recoverables and receivables, an allowance for credit losses ("ACL") is recognized which is an estimate of credit losses expected over the life of financial instruments. Under the prior accounting model an ACL was recognized using an incurred loss approach. The new guidance also requires that we estimate a liability for credit losses ("LCL") on off balance sheet credit exposures such as financial guarantees and mortgage loan commitments that the Company cannot unconditionally cancel.
Credit losses on fixed maturities, AFS carried at fair value continue to be measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows compared to amortized cost; however, the losses are now recognized through an ACL and no longer as an adjustment to the amortized cost. Recoveries of credit losses on fixed maturities, AFS are now recognized as reversals of the ACL and no longer accreted as investment income through an adjustment to the investment yield. The ACL on fixed maturities, AFS cannot cause the net carrying value to be below fair value and, therefore, it is possible that future increases in fair value due to decreases in market interest rates could cause the reversal of the ACL and increase net income. The new guidance also requires purchased financial assets with a more-than-insignificant amount of credit deterioration since original issuance to be recorded based on contractual amounts due and an initial allowance recorded at the date of purchase.
The Company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2020, through a cumulative-effect adjustment that decreased retained earnings by $18, representing a net increase to the ACL and LCL, after tax. No ACL was recognized at adoption for fixed maturities, AFS; rather, these investments are evaluated for an ACL prospectively. The Company does not have any purchased

financial assets with a more than insignificant amount of credit deterioration since original issuance.
Impact of Adoption on Consolidated Balance Sheet

------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- ------- ----- - ------
 Balance as of January 1, 2020
 Opening Balance Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change Adjusted Opening Balance
Mortgage loans $ 4,215 $ 4,215
ACL on mortgage loans — $ (19) (19)
Mortgage loans, net of ACL 4,215 (19) 4,196
Premiums receivable and agents’ balances 4,529 4,529
ACL on premiums receivable and agents' balances (145) 23 (122)
Premiums receivable and agents' balances, net of ACL 4,384 23 4,407
Reinsurance recoverables 5,641 5,641
ACL and allowance for disputed amounts on reinsurance recoverables (114) (2) (116)
Reinsurance recoverables, net of allowance for uncollectible reinsurance 5,527 (2) 5,525
Deferred income tax asset, net 299 5 304
Other liabilities (5,157) (25) (5,182)
Retained Earnings $ 12,685 $ (18) $ 12,667

Summary of Adoption Impacts

--------------------------------- - ----
Net increase to ACL and LCL $ (23)
Net tax effects 5
Net decrease to retained earnings $ (18)

Reference Rate Reform
On March 12, 2020, the Company adopted the FASB’s temporary guidance, which allows The Hartford to account for contract modifications made solely due to rate reform (such as replacing LIBOR with another reference rate) as continuations of existing contracts and to maintain hedge accounting when the hedging effectiveness between a financial instrument and its hedge is only affected by the change to a replacement rate. As a result, The Hartford will not recognize gains and losses during the transition period of LIBOR to an alternative reference rate that would otherwise have arisen from accounting assessments and remeasurements. The guidance expires for contract modifications made and hedge relationships entered into or evaluated after December 31, 2022. The Company is not required to measure the

135

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

effect of adoption on its financial position, cash flows or net income because the guidance provides relief from accounting for the effects of the change to a replacement rate.
Mortgage Loan Modification
In 2020, The Hartford adopted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) Section 4013, which allows financial institutions the option to suspend the requirement to disclose and account for loan modifications as troubled debt restructurings for loan modifications related to the COVID-19 pandemic occurring between March 1, 2020 and the earlier of 60 days after the end of the national emergency or January 1, 2022. The Company’s adoption of Section 4013 of the CARES Act had no impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows because The Hartford has not granted significant concessions to borrowers on its mortgage loans that would have been disclosed and accounted for as troubled debt restructurings.
Future Adoption of New Accounting Standards
Reserve for Future Policy Benefits
The FASB issued new guidance on accounting for long-duration insurance contracts. The Company’s long-duration insurance contracts include paid-up life insurance and whole-life insurance policies resulting from conversion from group life policies and run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities with total future policy benefit reserves of $638 as of December 31, 2020. Under existing guidance, a reserve for future policy benefits is calculated as the present value of future benefits and related expenses less the present value of any future premiums using assumptions “locked in” at the time the policies were issued, including discount rate, lapse rate, mortality, and expense assumptions. Under existing guidance, assumptions are only updated if there is an expected premium deficiency. The new guidance will require that underlying cash flow assumptions (such as for lapse rate, mortality and expenses) be reviewed and updated at least annually in the same quarter each year. The new guidance also requires that the discount rate assumption be updated each quarter and be based on an upper-medium grade (low-credit-risk) fixed-income investment yield. The change in the reserve estimate as a result of updating cash flow assumptions will be recognized in net income. The change in the reserve estimate as a result of updating the discount rate assumption will be recognized in other comprehensive income. Because reserves will be based on updated assumptions and no longer locked in at contract inception, there will no longer be a test for premium deficiency. The new guidance will be effective January 1, 2023, and will be applied to balances in place as of the earliest period presented. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet determined the method or timing for adoption or estimated the effect on the Company’s financial statements.

Significant Accounting Policies
The Company’s significant accounting policies are as follows:
Revenue Recognition
Premium Revenue from Direct Insurance and Assumed Reinsurance
Property and casualty premiums are earned on a pro rata basis over the policy period and include accruals for policies that have been written by agents but not yet reported to us, as well as ultimate premium revenue anticipated under auditable and retrospectively rated policies. We estimate the amount of premium not yet reported based on current and historical trends of the business being written. Such estimates are regularly reviewed and updated and any resulting adjustments are included in the current year's results. Unearned premiums represent the premiums applicable to the unexpired terms of policies in force, or period of risk.
Group life, disability and accident premiums are generally due from policyholders and recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the period of the contracts.
An estimated ACL is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from insureds and considering historical credit loss information, adjusted for current economic conditions and effective January 1, 2020, reasonable and supportable forecasts when appropriate . The Company records total credit loss expenses related to premiums receivable in insurance operating costs and other expenses. Write-offs of premiums receivable and agents' balances and any related ACL are recorded in the period in which the balance is deemed uncollectible. Refer to Note 8 - Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances for further discussion regarding the allowance for doubtful accounts included in premiums receivable and agents’ balances.
Revenue from Non-Insurance Contracts with Customers
Installment fees are charged on property and casualty insurance contracts for billing the insurance customer in installments over the policy term. These fees are recognized in fee income as earned on collection.
Insurance servicing revenues within Personal Lines consist of up-front commissions earned for collecting premiums and processing claims on insurance policies for which The Hartford does not assume underwriting risk, predominantly related to the National Flood Insurance Plan program. These insurance servicing revenues are recognized over the period of the flood program's policy terms.
Group Benefits earns fee income from employers for the administration of underwriting, implementation and claims processing for employer self-funded plans and for leave management services. Fees are recognized as services are provided and collected monthly.
Hartford Funds provides investment management, administrative and distribution services to mutual funds and exchange-traded products. The Company assesses investment advisory, distribution and other asset management fees primarily based on the average daily net asset values from mutual funds and exchange-traded products, which are recorded in the period in which the services are provided and are collected monthly.

136

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Fluctuations in domestic and international markets and related investment performance, volume and mix of sales and redemptions of mutual funds or exchange-traded products, and other changes to the composition of assets under management are all factors that ultimately have a direct effect on fee income earned.
Hartford Funds other fees primarily include transfer agent fees, generally assessed as a charge per account, and are recognized as fee income in the period in which the services are provided with payments collected monthly.
Corporate investment management and other fees are primarily for managing third party invested assets, including management of the invested assets of The Hartford’s former life and annuity business. These fees, calculated based on the average quarterly net asset values, are recorded in the period in which the services are provided and are collected quarterly. Fluctuations in markets and interest rates and other changes to the composition of assets under management are all factors that ultimately have a direct effect on fee income earned.
Corporate transition service revenues consist of operational services provided to The Hartford’s former life and annuity business that are provided for a limited period following sale. The transition service revenues are recognized as other revenues in the period in which the services are provided with payments collected monthly.
Dividends to Policyholders
Policyholder dividends are paid to certain property and casualty policyholders. Policies that receive dividends are referred to as participating policies. Participating dividends to policyholders are accrued and reported in insurance operating costs and other expenses and other liabilities using an estimate of the amount to be paid based on underlying contractual obligations under policies and applicable state laws.
Net written premiums for participating property and casualty insurance policies represented 7%, 9% and 10% of total net written premiums for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Participating dividends to property and casualty policyholders were $29, $30 and $23 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
There were no additional amounts of income allocated to participating policyholders.
Investments
Overview
The Company’s investments in fixed maturities include bonds, structured securities, redeemable preferred stock and commercial paper. Most of these investments are classified as AFS and are carried at fair value. The after tax difference between fair value and cost or amortized cost is reflected in stockholders’ equity as a component of AOCI. Effective January 1, 2018, equity securities are measured at fair value with any changes in valuation reported in net income. For further information, see Financial Instruments - Recognition and Measurement discussion above. Mortgage loans are recorded at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts and net of an ACL. Short-term investments are carried at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. Limited partnerships and other alternative investments are reported at their carrying value and are primarily accounted for under the equity method with the

Company’s share of earnings included in net investment income. Recognition of income related to limited partnerships and other alternative investments is delayed due to the availability of the related financial information, as private equity and other funds are generally on a three-month delay. Accordingly, income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 may not include the full impact of current year changes in valuation of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, which are generally obtained from the limited partnerships. Other investments primarily consist of investments of consolidated investment funds for which the Company has provided seed money and reports the underlying investments at fair value with changes in the fair value recognized in income consistent with accounting requirements for investment companies. Also included in other investments are derivative instruments which are carried at fair value, overseas deposits which are measured at fair value using the net asset value as a practical expedient and equity fund investments.
Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses
Net realized capital gains and losses from investment sales are reported as a component of revenues and are determined on a specific identification basis. Net realized capital gains and losses also result from fair value changes in equity securities and derivatives contracts that do not qualify, or are not designated, as a hedge for accounting purposes. Prior to January 1, 2020, impairments of fixed maturities and changes in mortgage loan valuation allowances were recognized as net realized capital losses as discussed in Note 6 -Investments. Effective January 1, 2020, the Company records net credit losses on fixed maturities, AFS and changes in the ACL on mortgage loans as a component of net realized capital gains and losses. For further information, see Financial Instruments - Credit Losses discussion above.
Net Investment Income
Interest income from fixed maturities and mortgage loans is recognized when earned on the constant effective yield method based on the estimated timing of cash flows. Most premiums and discounts on fixed maturities are amortized to the maturity date. Premiums on callable bonds may be amortized to call dates based on call prices. For securitized financial assets subject to prepayment risk, yields are recalculated and adjusted periodically to reflect historical and/or estimated future prepayments using the retrospective method. For certain other asset-backed securities, including securities that previously had an ACL and interest only securities, any yield adjustments are made using the prospective method. Prepayment fees and make-whole payments on fixed maturities and mortgage loans are recorded in net investment income when earned. For equity securities, dividends are recognized as investment income on the ex-dividend date. Limited partnerships and other alternative investments primarily use the equity method of accounting to recognize the Company’s share of earnings. Prior to January 1, 2020, for impaired fixed maturities, the Company accreted the new amortized cost to the estimated future cash flows over the expected remaining life of the investment by prospectively adjusting the effective yield, if necessary. Effective January 1, 2020, the Company no longer records credit losses as adjustments to the amortized cost of the fixed maturity but rather records an ACL. Future changes in the ACL resulting from improvements in expected future cash flows are not recorded as adjustments to yield through net investment income but are recorded through net realized capital gains (losses). For fixed maturities with an ACL, net investment income is recognized at the original effective rate and accretion of the

137

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

ACL is recognized through net realized capital gains (losses). For further information, see Financial Instruments - Credit Losses discussion above. The Company’s non-income producing investments were not material for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Derivative Instruments
Overview
The Company utilizes a variety of over-the-counter ("OTC") derivatives, derivatives cleared through central clearing houses ("OTC-cleared") and exchange traded derivative instruments as part of its overall risk management strategy as well as to engage in income generation covered call transactions and replication transactions. The types of instruments may include swaps, caps, floors, forwards, futures and options to achieve the following Company-approved objectives:
•to hedge risk arising from interest rate, equity market, commodity market, credit spread and issuer default, price or currency exchange rates or volatility;
•to manage liquidity;
•to control transaction costs;
•to enter into income generation covered call transactions and synthetic replication transactions.
Interest rate and credit default swaps involve the periodic exchange of cash flows with other parties, at specified intervals, calculated using agreed upon rates or other financial variables and notional principal amounts. Generally, little to no cash or principal payments are exchanged at the inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap is entered into, the cash flow streams exchanged by the counterparties are equal in value.
The Company clears certain interest rate swap and credit default swap derivative transactions through central clearing houses. OTC-cleared derivatives require initial collateral at the inception of the trade in the form of cash or highly liquid securities, such as U.S. Treasuries and government agency investments. Central clearing houses also require additional cash as variation margin based on daily market value movements. For information on collateral, see the Derivative Collateral Arrangements section in Note 7 - Derivatives. In addition, OTC-cleared transactions include price alignment amounts either received or paid on the variation margin, which are reflected in realized capital gains and losses or, if characterized as interest, in net investment income.
Forward contracts are customized commitments that specify a rate of interest or currency exchange rate to be paid or received on an obligation beginning on a future start date and are typically settled in cash.
Financial futures are standardized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying instrument. Futures contracts trade on organized exchanges. Margin requirements for futures are met by pledging securities or cash, and changes in the futures’ contract values are settled daily in cash.
Option contracts grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right to either purchase from or sell to the issuer a financial instrument at a specified price, within a specified period or on a stated date. The contracts may reference commodities, which

grant the purchaser the right to either purchase from or sell to the issuer commodities at a specified price, within a specified period or on a stated date. Option contracts are typically settled in cash.
Foreign currency swaps exchange an initial principal amount in two currencies, agreeing to re-exchange the currencies at a future date, at an agreed upon exchange rate. There may also be a periodic exchange of payments at specified intervals calculated using the agreed upon rates and exchanged principal amounts.
The Company’s derivative transactions conducted in insurance company subsidiaries are used in strategies permitted under the derivative use plans required by the State of Connecticut, the State of Illinois and the State of New York insurance departments.
Accounting and Financial Statement Presentation of Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Derivative instruments are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value and are reported in Other Investments and Other Liabilities. For balance sheet presentation purposes, the Company has elected to offset the fair value amounts, income accruals, and related cash collateral receivables and payables of OTC derivative instruments executed in a legal entity and with the same counterparty or under a master netting agreement, which provides the Company with the legal right of offset.
On the date the derivative contract is entered into, the Company designates the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability (“fair value” hedge), (2) a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a forecasted transaction or of amounts to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (“cash flow” hedge), (3) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation (“net investment” hedge) or (4) held for other investment and/or risk management purposes, which primarily involve managing asset or liability related risks and do not qualify for hedge accounting. The Company currently does not designate any derivatives as fair value or net investment hedges.
Cash Flow Hedges - Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, including foreign-currency cash flow hedges, are recorded in AOCI and are reclassified into earnings when the variability of the cash flow of the hedged item impacts earnings. Gains and losses on derivative contracts that are reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings are included in the line item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are recorded. Periodic derivative net coupon settlements are recorded in the line item of the Consolidated Statements of Operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are recorded. Cash flows from cash flow hedges are presented in the same category as the cash flows from the items being hedged in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Other Investment and/or Risk Management Activities - The Company’s other investment and/or risk management activities primarily relate to strategies used to reduce economic risk or replicate permitted investments and do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Changes in the fair value, including periodic derivative net coupon settlements, of derivative instruments held for other investment and/or risk

138

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

management purposes are reported in current period earnings as net realized capital gains and losses.
Hedge Documentation and Effectiveness Testing
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, a derivative must be highly effective in mitigating the designated changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. At hedge inception, the Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. The documentation process includes linking derivatives that are designated as fair value, cash flow, or net investment hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions and defining the effectiveness testing methods to be used. The Company also formally assesses both at the hedge’s inception and ongoing on a quarterly basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been and are expected to continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values, cash flows or net investment in foreign operations of hedged items. Hedge effectiveness is assessed primarily using quantitative methods as well as using qualitative methods. Quantitative methods include regression or other statistical analysis of changes in fair value or cash flows associated with the hedge relationship. Qualitative methods may include comparison of critical terms of the derivative to the hedged item.
Discontinuance of Hedge Accounting
The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when (1) it is determined that the qualifying criteria are no longer met; (2) the derivative is no longer designated as a hedging instrument; or (3) the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised.
When cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued because the Company becomes aware that it is not probable that the forecasted transaction will occur, the derivative continues to be carried on the balance sheet at its fair value, and gains and losses that were accumulated in AOCI are recognized immediately in earnings.
In other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, including those where the derivative is sold, terminated or exercised, amounts previously deferred in AOCI are reclassified into earnings when earnings are impacted by the hedged item.
Embedded Derivatives
The Company purchases investments that contain embedded derivative instruments. When it is determined that (1) the embedded derivative possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract and (2) a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host for measurement purposes. The embedded derivative, which is reported with the host instrument in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, is carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in net realized capital gains and losses.
Credit Risk of Derivative Instruments
Credit risk is defined as the risk of financial loss due to uncertainty of an obligor’s or counterparty’s ability or willingness to meet its obligations in accordance with agreed upon terms. Credit exposures are measured using the market value of the

derivatives, resulting in amounts owed to the Company by its counterparties or potential payment obligations from the Company to its counterparties. The Company generally requires that OTC derivative contracts, other than certain forward contracts, be governed by International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements which are structured by legal entity and by counterparty, and permit right of offset. Some agreements require daily collateral settlement based upon agreed upon thresholds. For purposes of daily derivative collateral maintenance, credit exposures are generally quantified based on the prior business day’s market value and collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of, the Company to the extent the current value of the derivatives is greater than zero, subject to minimum transfer thresholds, if applicable. The Company also minimizes the credit risk of derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high quality counterparties primarily rated A or better, which are monitored and evaluated by the Company’s risk management team and reviewed by senior management. OTC-cleared derivatives are governed by clearing house rules. Transactions cleared through a central clearing house reduce risk due to their ability to require daily variation margin and act as an independent valuation source. In addition, the Company monitors counterparty credit exposure on a monthly basis to ensure compliance with Company policies and statutory limitations.
Cash and Restricted Cash
Cash represents cash on hand and demand deposits with banks or other financial institutions. Restrictions on cash primarily relate to funds that are held to support regulatory and contractual obligations.
Reinsurance
The Company cedes insurance to affiliated and unaffiliated insurers in order to limit its maximum losses and to diversify its exposures and provide statutory surplus relief. Such arrangements do not relieve the Company of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to the Company. The Company also assumes reinsurance from other insurers and is a member of and participates in reinsurance pools and associations. Assumed reinsurance refers to the Company’s acceptance of certain insurance risks that other insurance companies or pools have underwritten.
Reinsurance accounting is followed for ceded and assumed transactions that provide indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk (i.e. risk transfer). To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance agreement must include insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss to the reinsurer. If the ceded and assumed transactions do not meet risk transfer requirements, the Company accounts for these transactions as financing transactions.
Premiums, benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses reflect the net effects of ceded and assumed reinsurance transactions. Included in other assets are prepaid reinsurance premiums, which represent the portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers applicable to the unexpired terms of the reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance recoverables are balances due from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and are presented net of an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. Changes in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance are

139

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

reported in benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company periodically evaluates the recoverability of its reinsurance recoverable assets and establishes an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance reflects management’s best estimate of reinsurance cessions that may be uncollectible in the future due to reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to pay. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance comprises an ACL and an allowance for disputed balances. Based on this analysis, the Company may adjust the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance or charge off reinsurer balances that are determined to be uncollectible. The Company records credit losses related to reinsurance recoverables in benefits losses and loss adjustment expenses. Write-offs of reinsurance recoverables and any related ACL are recorded in the period in which the balance is deemed uncollectible. Expected recoveries are included in the estimate of the ACL.
Retroactive reinsurance agreements, including adverse development covers, are reinsurance agreements under which our reinsurer agrees to reimburse us as a result of past insurable events. For these agreements, the consideration paid in excess of the estimated ultimate losses recoverable under the agreement at inception is recognized as a loss on reinsurance transaction. The benefit of subsequent adverse development ceded up to the total consideration paid is recognized as ceded losses and loss adjustment expenses. The excess of the estimated amounts ultimately recoverable under the agreement over the consideration paid is recognized as a deferred gain liability and amortized into income over the period the ceded losses are recovered in cash from the reinsurer. The amount of the deferred gain liability is recalculated each period based on cumulative recoveries not yet collected relative to the latest estimate of ultimate losses recoverable. Ceded loss reserves under retroactive agreements were $1.1 billion and $747, and the deferred gain liability reported in other liabilities was $328 and $16, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In any given period, the change in deferred gain included in net income includes amortization of the deferred gain based on the percentage of ultimate ceded losses collected plus any change in the deferred gain liability due to changes in the estimated ultimate losses recoverable. The effect on income from change in the deferred gain was a charge to earnings of $312 and $16 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. There was no deferred gain in 2018.
Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs
DAC represents costs that are directly related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance contracts and incremental direct costs of contract acquisition that are incurred in transactions with independent third parties or in compensation to employees. Such costs primarily include commissions, premium taxes, costs of policy issuance and underwriting, and certain other expenses that are directly related to successfully issued contracts.
For property and casualty insurance products and group life, disability and accident contracts, costs are deferred and amortized ratably over the period the related premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable from future income, and if not, are charged to expense. Anticipated investment income is considered in the determination of the recoverability of DAC.

Income Taxes
The Company recognizes taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred taxes for the tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. A deferred tax provision is recorded for the tax effects of differences between the Company's current taxable income and its income before tax under generally accepted accounting principles in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For deferred tax assets, the Company records a valuation allowance that is adequate to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an amount that will more likely than not be realized.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost to acquire a business over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that a triggering event for a potential impairment has occurred. Prior to January 1, 2020, the goodwill impairment test followed a two-step process. In the first step, the fair value of a reporting unit was compared to its carrying value. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. The Company’s reporting units, for which goodwill has been allocated consist of Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Group Benefits, and Hartford Funds. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeded its fair value, the second step of the impairment test was performed for purposes of measuring the impairment. In the second step, the fair value of the reporting unit was allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit to determine an implied goodwill value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded the implied goodwill value, an impairment loss was recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Effective January 1, 2020, the goodwill impairment test is based on the first step only and, as such, goodwill is impaired up to the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value. For further information, see Adoption of New Accounting Standards - Goodwill discussion above.
Management’s determination of the fair value of each reporting unit incorporates multiple inputs into discounted cash flow calculations, including assumptions that market participants would make in valuing the reporting unit. Assumptions include levels of economic capital required to support the business, future business growth, earnings projections, the weighted average cost of capital used for purposes of discounting and, for the Hartford Funds segment, assets under management. Decreases in business growth, decreases in earnings projections and increases in the weighted average cost of capital will all cause a reporting unit’s fair value to decrease, increasing the possibility of impairments.
Intangible Assets
Acquired intangible assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets include purchased customer relationship and agency or other distribution rights and licenses measured at fair value at acquisition. The Company amortizes finite-lived other intangible assets over their useful lives generally on a straight-line basis over the period of expected benefit, ranging from 1 to 15 years. Management revises amortization periods if it believes there has

140

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

been a change in the length of time that an intangible asset will continue to have value. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization. Intangible assets are assessed for impairment generally when events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment and at least annually for indefinite-lived intangibles. Finite-lived intangible assets are impaired if the carrying amount is not recoverable from undiscounted cash flows. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired if the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Impaired intangible assets are written down to fair value.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment, which includes capitalized software, is carried at cost net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of the various classes of property and equipment and is recognized principally on the straight-line method. Accumulated depreciation was $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Depreciation expense was $313, $283, and $232 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses
For property and casualty and group life and disability insurance and assumed reinsurance products, the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims under insurance policies written by the Company. These reserves include estimates for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported ("IBNR"), and include estimates of all losses and loss adjustment expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. Estimating the ultimate cost of future losses and loss adjustment expenses is an uncertain and complex process. This estimation process is based significantly on the assumption that past developments are an appropriate predictor of future events, and involves a variety of actuarial techniques that analyze experience, trends and other relevant factors. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process. A number of complex factors influence the uncertainties involved with the reserving process including social and economic trends and changes in the concepts of legal liability and damage awards. Accordingly, final claim settlements may vary from the present estimates, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. The Company regularly reviews the adequacy of its estimated losses and loss adjustment expense reserves by reserve line within the various

reporting segments. Adjustments to previously established reserves are reflected in the operating results of the period in which the adjustment is determined to be necessary. Such adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any variety of new and adverse or favorable trends.
Most of the Company’s property and casualty insurance products reserves are not discounted. However, the Company has discounted to present value certain reserves for indemnity payments that are due to claimants under workers’ compensation policies because the payment pattern and the ultimate costs are reasonably fixed and determinable on an individual claim basis. The discount rate is based on the risk free rate for the expected claim duration as determined in the year the claims were incurred. The Company also has discounted liabilities for structured settlement agreements that provide fixed periodic payments to claimants. These structured settlements include annuities purchased to fund unpaid losses for permanently disabled claimants. These structured settlement liabilities are discounted to present value using the rate implicit in the purchased annuities and the purchased annuities are accounted for within reinsurance recoverables.
Group life and disability contracts with long-tail claim liabilities are discounted because the payment pattern and the ultimate costs are reasonably fixed and determinable on an individual claim basis. The discount rates are estimated based on investment yields expected to be earned on the cash flows net of investment expenses and expected credit losses. The Company establishes discount rates for these reserves in the year the claims are incurred (the incurral year) which is when the estimated settlement pattern is determined. The discount rate for life and disability reserves acquired from Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business were based on interest rates in effect at the acquisition date of November 1, 2017.
For further information about how unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are established, see Note 12 - Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses.
Foreign Currency
Foreign currency translation gains and losses are reflected in stockholders’ equity as a component of AOCI. The Company’s foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheet accounts are translated at the exchange rates in effect at each year end and income statement accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The national currencies of the international operations are generally their functional currencies; however, the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of Lloyd's Syndicate 1221 ("Lloyd's Syndicate"), the Lloyd's Syndicate for which the Company is the sole corporate member, in the U.K. Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of foreign currency transactions are reflected in earnings in realized capital gains (losses) in the period in which they occur.

141

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 2 - Business Acquisitions

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
2. BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

Navigators Group
On May 23, 2019, The Hartford acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Navigators Group for $70 a share, or $2.121 billion, comprised of cash of $2.098 billion and a liability for cash awards to replace share-based awards of $23. The acquisition of the specialty underwriter expands product offerings and geographic reach, and adds underwriting and industry talent to strengthen the Company’s value proposition to agents and customers. At acquisition, the Company recorded provisional estimates of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In the second quarter of 2020, The Hartford

finalized its provisional estimates and recorded additional assets of $9 and liabilities of $7 with a net reduction in goodwill of $2. The measurement period adjustments, determined as if the accounting had been completed as of the acquisition date, had no effect on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. The following table presents the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, the measurement period adjustments recorded, and the final purchase price allocation.

Fair Value of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed at the Acquisition Date

------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------ ---------------------------------- - ----- - -----
 Preliminary Values as of May 23, 2019 (as previously reported) Measurement Period Adjustments Adjusted Values as of May 23, 2019
Assets
Cash and invested assets $ 3,848 $ 3 $ 3,851
Premiums receivable 492 6 498
Reinsurance recoverables 1,100 (3) 1,097
Prepaid reinsurance premiums 238 — 238
Other intangible assets 580 — 580
Property and equipment 83 — 83
Other assets 99 3 102
Total Assets Acquired 6,440 9 6,449
Liabilities
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses 2,823 — 2,823
Unearned premiums 1,219 — 1,219
Long-term debt 284 — 284
Deferred income taxes, net 48 (1) 47
Other liabilities 568 8 576
Total Liabilities Assumed 4,942 7 4,949
Net identifiable assets acquired 1,498 2 1,500
Goodwill [1] 623 (2) 621
Net Assets Acquired $ 2,121 $ — $ 2,121

[1] Non-deductible for income tax purposes.

142

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 2 - Business Acquisitions

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Intangible Assets Recorded in Connection with the Acquisition

----------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------------------------------ -- -
Asset Amount Weighted Average Expected Life
Value of in-force contracts - Property and Casualty ("P&C") $ 180 1
Distribution relationships 302 15
Trade name 17 10
Total finite life intangibles 499 10
Capacity of Lloyd's Syndicate 66
Licenses 15
Total indefinite life intangibles 81
Total other intangible assets $ 580

The value of in-force contracts represents the estimated profits relating to the unexpired contracts in force net of related prepaid reinsurance at the acquisition date through expiry of the contracts. The value of distribution relationships was estimated using net cash flows expected to come from the renewals of in-force contracts and new business sold through existing distribution partners less costs to service the related policies. The value of the trade name was estimated using an assumed cost of a market-based royalty fee applied to net cash flows expected to come from business marketed as Navigators, a brand of The Hartford. Lloyd's of London is an insurance market-place operating worldwide ("Lloyd's"). Lloyd's does not underwrite risks. Corporate members accept underwriting risks through the syndicates that they form. The Company accepts risks as the sole corporate member of Lloyd's Syndicate. The value of the capacity of Lloyd’s Syndicate was estimated using net cash flows attributable to Navigators Group's right to underwrite business up to an approved level of premium in the Lloyd’s market. The values for in-force contracts, the distribution relationships, trade name and the capacity of the Lloyd's Syndicate were estimated using a discounted cash flow method. Significant inputs to the valuation models include estimates of expected new business, premium retention rates, investment returns, claim costs, expenses and discount rates based on a weighted average cost of capital. The value of licenses to write insurance in over 50 U.S. jurisdictions was estimated based on recent transactions for shell companies.
Property and equipment includes real estate owned and right of use assets under leases that were valued based on current values and market rental rates, software that was valued based on estimated replacement cost and furniture and equipment. These will be amortized over periods consistent with the Company’s policy.
The fair value of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses net of related reinsurance recoverables was estimated based on the present value of expected future net unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense payments discounted using a risk-free interest rate as of the acquisition date plus a risk margin. The discount and risk margin amounts substantially offset.
Debt assumed in the transaction was valued based on the principal and interest payments discounted at the current market

yield. This debt was paid off in August 2019. For further discussion of this transaction, see Note 14 - Debt.
The $621 of goodwill recognized is largely attributable to the acquired employee workforce and underwriting talent, leverageable operating platform, improved investment yield and economies of scale. Goodwill is allocated to the Company's Commercial Lines reporting segment.
Immediately after closing on the acquisition of Navigators Group, effective May 23, 2019, the Company purchased an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement covering adverse reserve development (“Navigators ADC”) from National Indemnity Company ("NICO") on behalf of Navigators Insurance Company and certain of its affiliates (collectively, “Navigators Insurers”). Under the Navigators ADC, the Navigators Insurers paid NICO a reinsurance premium of $91 in exchange for reinsurance coverage of $300 of adverse net loss reserve development that attaches $100 above the Navigators Insurers' existing net loss and allocated loss adjustment reserves as of December 31, 2018 subject to the treaty of $1.816 billion for accidents and losses prior to December 31, 2018. In addition to recognizing a $91 before tax charge to earnings in 2019 for the Navigators ADC reinsurance premium, the Company recognized a charge against earnings of $97 before tax in the second quarter of 2019 as a result of a review of Navigators Insurers’ net acquired reserves upon acquisition of the business. Navigators Insurers had previously recognized $52 before tax of adverse reserve development in the first quarter of 2019, including $32 of adverse development subject to the Navigators ADC. As such, reserve development of $97 before tax recognized upon acquisition of the business included $68 remaining of the $100 Navigators ADC retention for 2018 and prior accident years and $29 of adverse reserve development related to the 2019 accident year which is not covered by the Navigators ADC.
On 2018 and prior accident year reserves subject to the Navigators ADC, the Company recognized a total of $84 of adverse development in 2019, including the $68 of reserve development recorded upon acquisition of the business. The $84 of prior accident year reserve development was net of a $91 net reinsurance benefit recognized under the Navigators ADC. While the Company has ceded $209 of losses to the ADC through December 31, 2020, which has been recognized as a reinsurance recoverable, $118 of the ceded losses has been recognized as a deferred gain within other liabilities since the Navigators ADC has been accounted for as retroactive reinsurance and cumulative losses ceded of $209 exceed the ceded premium paid of $91. As the Company has ceded $209 of the $300 available limit, there is $91 of remaining limit available as of December 31, 2020.
Since the acquisition date of May 23, 2019, the revenues and net losses of the business acquired have been included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations in the Commercial Lines reporting segment with revenues of $1.0 billion and net losses of $167 during the period from the acquisition date to December 31, 2019, including the $91 before tax ($72 net of tax) of premium paid for the Navigators ADC, a charge of $97 before tax ($77 net of tax) for the increase in acquired reserves following the acquisition, a charge of $16 before tax ($13 net of tax) for the deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance and net investment income of $67 before tax ($54 net of tax). During 2020, the Company increased reserves subject to the Navigators

143

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 2 - Business Acquisitions

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

ADC by an additional $102 before tax ($81 net of tax) which was recognized as an increase to deferred gain within incurred losses. See Note 12 - Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses, for additional information.
The Company recognized $17 of acquisition related costs for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. These costs are included in insurance operating costs and other expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The following table presents supplemental unaudited pro forma amounts of revenue and net income for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 for the Company as though the business was acquired on January 1, 2018. Pro forma adjustments include the revenue and earnings of Navigators Group for each period as well as amortization of identifiable intangible assets acquired.

Pro Forma Results for the Year Ended December 31

------------------------------------------------ ------- -------- - -----
 Revenue Earnings
2019 Supplemental (unaudited) combined pro forma $ 21,416 $ 2,080
2018 Supplemental (unaudited) combined pro forma $ 20,398 $ 1,828

3. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE
Computation of Basic and Diluted Earnings per Common Share

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(In millions, except for per share data) 2020 2019 2018
Earnings

Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,485
Less: Preferred stock dividends 21 21 6
Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders 1,716 2,064 1,479

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders — — 322

Net income available to common stockholders $ 1,716 $ 2,064 $ 1,801
Shares
Weighted average common shares outstanding, basic 358.3 360.9 358.4
Dilutive effect of warrants [1] — 0.5 1.9
Dilutive effect of stock-based awards under compensation plans 2.3 3.5 3.8

Weighted average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares [2] 360.6 364.9 364.1
Earnings per common share
Basic
Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 4.13
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders — — 0.90
Net income available to common stockholders $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 5.03
Diluted
Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.06
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders — — 0.89
Net income available to common stockholders $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.95

[1]On June 26, 2019 the Capital Purchase Program warrants issued in 2009 expired.
[2]For additional information, see Note 16 - Equity and Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans.

Basic earnings per common share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common share includes the dilutive effect of assumed exercise or issuance of warrants and stock-based awards under compensation plans.
In periods where a loss from continuing operations available to common stockholders or net loss available to common stockholders is recognized, inclusion of incremental dilutive shares would be antidilutive. Due to the antidilutive impact, such shares are excluded from the diluted earnings per share

calculation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders and net income (loss) available to common stockholders in such periods.
Under the treasury stock method, for warrants and stock-based awards, shares are assumed to be issued and then reduced for the number of shares repurchasable with theoretical proceeds at the average market price for the period. Contingently issuable shares are included for the number of shares issuable assuming the end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period, if dilutive.

144

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 4 - Segment Information

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company conducts business principally in five reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property & Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds, as well as a Corporate category.
Over 95% of the Company’s revenues are generated in the United States (“U.S.”). The remaining revenues are generated in Europe and other international locations.
We report our results of operations consistent with the manner in which our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") reviews the business to assess performance, make operating decisions and allocate resources. The Company’s reporting segments, as well as the Corporate category, are as follows:
Commercial Lines
Commercial Lines provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, general liability, umbrella, professional liability, bond, marine, livestock and assumed reinsurance to businesses in the U.S. and internationally, along with a variety of customized insurance products and risk management services including professional liability, bond, surety, and specialty casualty coverages.
Personal Lines
Personal Lines provides standard automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the U.S., including a special program designed exclusively for members of AARP. This agreement provides an important competitive advantage given the size of the 50 plus population and the strength of the AARP brand. During the second quarter of 2020, the Company extended this agreement through December 31, 2032.
Property & Casualty Other Operations
Property & Casualty Other Operations includes certain property and casualty operations, managed by the Company, that have discontinued writing new business and includes substantially all of the Company’s asbestos and environmental exposures.
Group Benefits
Group Benefits provides employers, associations and financial institutions with group life, accident and disability coverage, along with other products and services, including voluntary benefits, and group retiree health.
Hartford Funds
Hartford Funds offers investment products for retail and retirement accounts and provides investment management and administrative services such as product design, implementation and oversight. This business also manages a portion of the mutual funds which support the variable annuity products within the life and annuity business sold in May 2018.
Corporate
The Company includes in the Corporate category discontinued operations related to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, reserves for run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities, restructuring costs, capital raising activities (including debt financing and related interest expense), transaction expenses incurred in connection with an acquisition, certain purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and

other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments. Corporate also includes investment management fees and expenses related to managing third party business, including management of the invested assets of Talcott Resolution Life, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Talcott Resolution"). In addition, Corporate includes a 9.7% ownership interest in the legal entity that acquired the life and annuity business sold in 2018. For further discussion of continued involvement in the life and annuity business sold, see Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
Financial Measures and Other Segment Information
Certain transactions between segments occur during the year that primarily relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements, services provided, investment transfers and capital contributions. In addition, certain inter-segment transactions occur that relate to interest income on allocated surplus. Consolidated net investment income is unaffected by such transactions.

145

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 4 - Segment Information

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Revenues

--------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------ ------ - ------ - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Earned premiums and fee income:
Commercial Lines
Workers’ compensation $ 3,034 $ 3,314 $ 3,341
Liability 1,401 1,064 653
Marine 251 147 —
Package business 1,540 1,471 1,364
Property 793 728 618
Professional liability 595 447 254
Bond 274 261 241
Assumed reinsurance 298 180 —
Automobile 754 713 610
Total Commercial Lines 8,940 8,325 7,081
Personal Lines
Automobile 2,081 2,248 2,398
Homeowners 961 987 1,041
Total Personal Lines [1] 3,042 3,235 3,439
Property & Casualty Other Operations — 2 —
Group Benefits
Group disability 2,832 2,828 2,746
Group life 2,434 2,521 2,611
Other 270 254 241
Total Group Benefits 5,536 5,603 5,598
Hartford Funds
Mutual fund and ETP 903 907 932
Talcott Resolution life and annuity separate accounts [2] 86 92 100
Total Hartford Funds 989 999 1,032
Corporate 58 60 32
Total earned premiums and fee income 18,565 18,224 17,182

Total net investment income 1,846 1,951 1,780
Net realized capital gains (losses) (14) 395 (112)
Other revenues 126 170 105
Total revenues $ 20,523 $ 20,740 $ 18,955

[1]For 2020, 2019 and 2018, AARP members accounted for earned premiums of $2.8 billion, $2.9 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively.
[2]Represents revenues earned on the life and annuity separate account AUM sold in May 2018 that is still managed by the Company's Hartford Funds segment.

Net Income

------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Commercial Lines $ 856 $ 1,192 $ 1,212
Personal Lines 718 318 (32)
Property & Casualty Other Operations (168) 61 15
Group Benefits 383 536 340
Hartford Funds 170 149 148
Corporate (222) (171) 124
Net income $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,807
Preferred stock dividends 21 21 6
Net income available to common stockholders $ 1,716 $ 2,064 $ 1,801

Net Investment Income

------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ---- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Commercial Lines $ 1,160 $ 1,129 $ 997
Personal Lines 157 179 155
Property & Casualty Other Operations 55 84 90
Group Benefits 448 486 474
Hartford Funds 4 7 5
Corporate 22 66 59
Net investment income $ 1,846 $ 1,951 $ 1,780

Amortization of DAC

------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Commercial Lines $ 1,397 $ 1,296 $ 1,048
Personal Lines 244 259 275
Group Benefits 50 54 45
Hartford Funds 14 12 16
Corporate 1 1 —
Total amortization of DAC $ 1,706 $ 1,622 $ 1,384

146

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 4 - Segment Information

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Amortization of Other Intangible Assets

--------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - -- - --
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Commercial Lines $ 28 $ 18 $ 4
Personal Lines 4 6 4
Group Benefits 40 41 60
Corporate — 1 —
Total amortization of other intangible assets $ 72 $ 66 $ 68

Income Tax Expense (Benefit)

------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- - ---
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Commercial Lines $ 176 $ 270 $ 267
Personal Lines 184 76 (19)
Property & Casualty Other Operations (46) 12 (7)
Group Benefits 88 126 84
Hartford Funds 44 37 38
Corporate (63) (46) (95)
Total income tax expense $ 383 $ 475 $ 268

Assets

------------------------------------ ------------------ ------ ------ - ------
 As of December 31,
 2020 2019
Commercial Lines $ 45,482 $ 42,041
Personal Lines 5,969 6,310
Property & Casualty Other Operations 3,505 3,560
Group Benefits 14,732 14,595
Hartford Funds 662 634
Corporate 3,761 3,677
Total assets $ 74,111 $ 70,817

Revenue from Non-Insurance Contracts with Customers

----------------------------------------------- ----------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 Revenue Line Item 2020 2019 2018
Commercial Lines
Installment billing fees Fee income $ 30 $ 35 $ 34
Personal Lines
Installment billing fees Fee income 34 37 40
Insurance servicing revenues Other revenues 81 83 84
Group Benefits
Administrative services Fee income 175 180 175
Hartford Funds
Advisor, distribution and other management fees Fee income 901 911 947
Other fees Fee income 88 88 85
Corporate
Investment management and other fees Fee income 49 50 32
Transition service revenues Other revenues 2 20 21
Total non-insurance revenues with customers $ 1,360 $ 1,404 $ 1,418

147

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

The Company carries certain financial assets and liabilities at estimated fair value. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants. Our fair value framework includes a hierarchy that gives the highest priority to the use of quoted prices in active markets, followed by the use of market observable inputs, followed by the use of unobservable inputs.
The fair value hierarchy levels are as follows:
Level 1    Fair values based primarily on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities, in active markets that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 2    Fair values primarily based on observable inputs, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, or based on prices for similar assets and liabilities.

Level 3    Fair values derived when one or more of the significant inputs are unobservable (including assumptions about risk). With little or no observable market, the determination of fair values uses considerable judgment and represents the Company’s best estimate of an amount that could be realized in a market exchange for the asset or liability. Also included are securities that are traded within illiquid markets and/or priced by independent brokers.
The Company will classify the financial asset or liability by level based upon the lowest level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value. In most cases, both observable inputs (e.g., changes in interest rates) and unobservable inputs (e.g., changes in risk assumptions) are used to determine fair values that the Company has classified within Level 3.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ---------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------ - -----
Assets and (Liabilities) Carried at Fair Value by Hierarchy Level as of December 31, 2020
 Total Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets(Level 1) SignificantObservableInputs(Level 2) SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
Assets accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis
Fixed maturities, AFS
Asset backed securities ("ABS") $ 1,564 $ — $ 1,564 $ —
Collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs") 2,780 — 2,420 360
Commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") 4,484 — 4,407 77
Corporate 20,273 — 19,392 881
Foreign government/government agencies 919 — 913 6
Municipal 9,503 — 9,503 —
Residential mortgage-backed securities ("RMBS") 4,107 — 3,726 381
U.S. Treasuries 1,405 529 876 —
Total fixed maturities 45,035 529 42,801 1,705

Equity securities, at fair value 1,438 872 496 70
Derivative assets
Credit derivatives 21 — 21 —

Foreign exchange derivatives 1 — 1 —
Interest rate derivatives 1 — 1 —
Total derivative assets [1] 23 — 23 —
Short-term investments 3,283 2,663 590 30
Total assets accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis $ 49,779 $ 4,064 $ 43,910 $ 1,805
Liabilities accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis
Derivative liabilities

Foreign exchange derivatives $ (14) $ — $ (14) $ —
Interest rate derivatives (70) — (70) —
Total derivative liabilities [2] (84) — (84) —

Total liabilities accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis $ (84) $ — $ (84) $ —

148

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ---------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------ - -----
Assets and (Liabilities) Carried at Fair Value by Hierarchy Level as of December 31, 2019
 Total Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets(Level 1) SignificantObservableInputs(Level 2) SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
Assets accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis
Fixed maturities, AFS
ABS $ 1,476 $ — $ 1,461 $ 15
CLOs 2,183 — 2,088 95
CMBS 4,338 — 4,329 9
Corporate 17,396 — 16,664 732
Foreign government/government agencies 1,123 — 1,120 3
Municipal 9,498 — 9,498 —
RMBS 4,869 — 4,309 560
U.S. Treasuries 1,265 330 935 —
Total fixed maturities 42,148 330 40,404 1,414

Equity securities, at fair value 1,657 1,401 183 73
Derivative assets
Credit derivatives 11 — 11 —

Interest rate derivatives 1 — 1 —

Total derivative assets [1] 12 — 12 —
Short-term investments 2,921 1,028 1,878 15

Total assets accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis $ 46,738 $ 2,759 $ 42,477 $ 1,502
Liabilities accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis
Derivative liabilities
Credit derivatives $ (1) $ — $ (1) $ —
Equity derivatives (15) — — (15)
Foreign exchange derivatives (2) — (2) —
Interest rate derivatives (60) — (60) —
Total derivative liabilities [2] (78) — (63) (15)
Contingent consideration [3] (22) — — (22)
Total liabilities accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis $ (100) $ — $ (63) $ (37)

[1]Includes derivative instruments in a net positive fair value position after consideration of the accrued interest and impact of collateral posting requirements which may be imposed by agreements and applicable law. See footnote 2 to this table for derivative liabilities.
[2]Includes derivative instruments in a net negative fair value position (derivative liability) after consideration of the accrued interest and impact of collateral posting requirements which may be imposed by agreements and applicable law.
[3]For additional information, see the Contingent Consideration section below.

In connection with the acquisition of Navigators Group, the Company has overseas deposits in Other Invested Assets of $54 and $38 as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, which are measured at fair value using the net asset value as a practical expedient.
Fixed Maturities, Equity Securities, Short-term Investments, and Derivatives
Valuation Techniques
The Company generally determines fair values using valuation techniques that use prices, rates, and other relevant information evident from market transactions involving identical or similar instruments. Valuation techniques also include, where appropriate, estimates of future cash flows that are converted into a single discounted amount using current market

expectations. The Company uses a "waterfall" approach comprised of the following pricing sources and techniques, which are listed in priority order:
•Quoted prices, unadjusted, for identical assets or liabilities in active markets, which are classified as Level 1.
•Prices from third-party pricing services, which primarily utilize a combination of techniques. These services utilize recently reported trades of identical, similar, or benchmark securities making adjustments for market observable inputs available through the reporting date. If there are no recently reported trades, they may use a discounted cash flow technique to develop a price using expected cash flows based upon the anticipated future performance of the underlying collateral discounted at an estimated market rate. Both techniques develop prices that consider the time value of future cash flows and provide a margin for risk, including liquidity and credit risk. Most prices provided by third-party pricing services are classified as Level 2 because the inputs

149

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

used in pricing the securities are observable. However, some securities that are less liquid or trade less actively are classified as Level 3. Additionally, certain long-dated securities, such as municipal securities and bank loans, include benchmark interest rate or credit spread assumptions that are not observable in the marketplace and are thus classified as Level 3.
•Internal matrix pricing, which is a valuation process internally developed for private placement securities for which the Company is unable to obtain a price from a third-party pricing service. Internal pricing matrices determine credit spreads that, when combined with risk-free rates, are applied to contractual cash flows to develop a price. The Company develops credit spreads using market based data for public securities adjusted for credit spread differentials between public and private securities, which are obtained from a survey of multiple private placement brokers. The market-based reference credit spread considers the issuer’s financial strength and term to maturity, using an independent public security index, while the credit spread differential considers the non-public nature of the security. Securities priced using internal matrix pricing are classified as Level 2 because the significant inputs are observable or can be corroborated with observable data.
•Independent broker quotes, which are typically non-binding, use inputs that can be difficult to corroborate with observable market based data. Brokers may use present value techniques using assumptions specific to the security types, or they may use recent transactions of similar securities. Due to the lack of transparency in the process that brokers use to develop prices, valuations that are based on independent broker quotes are classified as Level 3.
The fair value of derivative instruments is determined primarily using a discounted cash flow model or option model technique and incorporates counterparty credit risk. In some cases, quoted market prices for exchange-traded and OTC-cleared derivatives may be used and in other cases independent broker quotes may be used. The pricing valuation models primarily use inputs that are observable in the market or can be corroborated by

observable market data. The valuation of certain derivatives may include significant inputs that are unobservable, such as volatility levels, and reflect the Company’s view of what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments.
Valuation Controls
The process for determining the fair value of investments is monitored by the Valuation Committee, which is a cross-functional group of senior management within the Company. The purpose of the Valuation Committee is to provide oversight of the pricing policy, procedures and controls, including approval of valuation methodologies and pricing sources. The Valuation Committee reviews market data trends, pricing statistics and trading statistics to ensure that prices are reasonable and consistent with our fair value framework. Controls and procedures used to assess third-party pricing services are reviewed by the Valuation Committee, including the results of annual due-diligence reviews. Controls include, but are not limited to, reviewing daily and monthly price changes, stale prices, and missing prices and comparing new trade prices to third-party pricing services, weekly price changes to published bond prices of a corporate bond index, and daily OTC derivative market valuations to counterparty valuations. The Company has a dedicated pricing unit that works with trading and investment professionals to challenge the price received by a third party pricing source if the Company believes that the valuation received does not accurately reflect the fair value. New valuation models and changes to current models require approval by the Valuation Committee. In addition, the Company’s enterprise-wide Operational Risk Management function provides an independent review of the suitability and reliability of model inputs, as well as an analysis of significant changes to current models.
Valuation Inputs
Quoted prices for identical assets in active markets are considered Level 1 and consist of on-the-run U.S. Treasuries, money market funds, exchange-traded equity securities, open-ended mutual funds, certain short-term investments, and exchange traded futures and option contracts.

150

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Valuation Inputs Used in Levels 2 and 3 Measurements for Securities and Derivatives

---------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Level 2 Primary Observable Inputs Level 3Primary Unobservable Inputs
Fixed Maturity Investments
Structured securities (includes ABS, CLOs, CMBS and RMBS)
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Monthly payment information• Collateral performance, which varies by vintage year and includes delinquency rates, loss severity rates and refinancing assumptions• Credit default swap indices Other inputs for ABS, CLOs, and RMBS:• Estimate of future principal prepayments, derived from the characteristics of the underlying structure• Prepayment speeds previously experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the collateral • Independent broker quotes• Credit spreads beyond observable curve• Interest rates beyond observable curveOther inputs for less liquid securities or those that trade less actively, including subprime RMBS:• Estimated cash flows• Credit spreads, which include illiquidity premium• Constant prepayment rates• Constant default rates• Loss severity
Corporates
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Reported trades, bids, offers of the same or similar securities• Issuer spreads and credit default swap curvesOther inputs for investment grade privately placed securities that utilize internal matrix pricing :• Credit spreads for public securities of similar quality, maturity, and sector, adjusted for non-public nature • Independent broker quotes• Credit spreads beyond observable curve• Interest rates beyond observable curveOther inputs for below investment grade privately placed securities and private bank loans:• Credit spreads for public securities of similar quality, maturity, and sector, adjusted for non-public nature
U.S Treasuries, Municipals, and Foreign government/government agencies
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Issuer credit default swap curves• Political events in emerging market economies • Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board reported trades and material event notices • Issuer financial statements • Credit spreads beyond observable curve• Interest rates beyond observable curve
Equity Securities
 • Quoted prices in markets that are not active • For privately traded equity securities, internal discounted cash flow models utilizing earnings multiples or other cash flow assumptions that are not observable
Short-term Investments
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Reported trades, bids, offers• Issuer spreads and credit default swap curves• Material event notices and new issue money market rates • Independent broker quotes
Derivatives
Credit derivatives
 • Swap yield curve • Credit default swap curves Not applicable
Equity derivatives
 • Equity index levels• Swap yield curve • Independent broker quotes• Equity volatility
Foreign exchange derivatives
 • Swap yield curve• Currency spot and forward rates• Cross currency basis curves Not applicable
Interest rate derivatives
 • Swap yield curve • Independent broker quotes• Interest rate volatility

151

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Significant Unobservable Inputs for Level 3 - Securities

------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------ --------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ------- --------
Assets accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis FairValue PredominantValuationTechnique Significant Unobservable Input Minimum Maximum Weighted Average [1] Impact ofIncrease in Inputon Fair Value [2]
As of December 31, 2020
CLOs [3] $ 340 Discounted cash flows Spread 304 bps 305 bps 304 bps Decrease
CMBS [3] $ 20 Discounted cash flows Spread (encompasses prepayment, default risk and loss severity) 255 bps 975 bps 688 bps Decrease
Corporate [4] $ 749 Discounted cash flows Spread 110 bps 692 bps 293 bps Decrease

RMBS [3] $ 364 Discounted cash flows Spread [6] 7 bps 937 bps 119 bps Decrease
 Constant prepayment rate [6] —% 10% 5% Decrease [5]
 Constant default rate [6] 2% 6% 3% Decrease
 Loss severity [6] —% 100% 84% Decrease
As of December 31, 2019
CLOs [3] $ 95 Discounted cash flows Spread 246 bps 246 bps 246 bps Decrease
CMBS [3] $ 1 Discounted cash flows Spread (encompasses prepayment, default risk and loss severity) 9 bps 1,832 bps 161 bps Decrease
Corporate [4] $ 633 Discounted cash flows Spread 93 bps 788 bps 236 bps Decrease

RMBS [3] $ 560 Discounted cash flows Spread [6] 5 bps 233 bps 79 bps Decrease
 Constant prepayment rate [6] —% 11% 6% Decrease [5]
 Constant default rate [6] 1% 6% 3% Decrease
 Loss severity [6] —% 100% 70% Decrease

[1]The weighted average is determined based on the fair value of the securities.
[2]Conversely, the impact of a decrease in input would have the opposite impact to the fair value as that presented in the table.
[3]Excludes securities for which the Company bases fair value on broker quotations.
[4]Excludes securities for which the Company bases fair value on broker quotations; however, included are broker priced lower-rated private placement securities for which the Company receives spread and yield information to corroborate the fair value.
[5]Decrease for above market rate coupons and increase for below market rate coupons.
[6]Generally, a change in the assumption used for the constant default rate would have been accompanied by a directionally similar change in the assumption used for the loss severity and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for constant prepayment rate and would have resulted in wider spreads.
Significant Unobservable Inputs for Level 3 - Derivatives [1]

----------------------- --------- ------------------------------ ----------------------------- ------------ ----------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------- -- - -- - --------
 FairValue Predominant ValuationTechnique SignificantUnobservable Input Minimum Maximum Weighted Average [2] Impact of Increase in Input on Fair Value [3]

As of December 31, 2019

Equity options $ (15) Option model Equity volatility 13 % 28 % 17 % Increase

[1]As of December 31, 2020, the fair values of the Company's level 3 derivatives were less than $1 and are excluded from the table.
[2]The weighted average is determined based on the fair value of the derivatives.
[3]Conversely, the impact of a decrease in input would have the opposite impact to the fair value as that presented in the table. Changes are based on long positions, unless otherwise noted. Changes in fair value will be inversely impacted for short positions.

The tables above exclude certain securities for which fair values are predominately based on independent broker quotes. While the Company does not have access to the significant unobservable inputs that independent brokers may use in their pricing process, the Company believes brokers likely use inputs similar to those used by the Company and third-party pricing

services to price similar instruments. As such, in their pricing models, brokers likely use estimated loss severity rates, prepayment rates, constant default rates and credit spreads. Therefore, similar to non-broker priced securities, increases in these inputs would generally cause fair values to decrease. For

152

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

the year ended December 31, 2020, no significant adjustments were made by the Company to broker prices received.

Contingent Consideration
The acquisition of Lattice Strategies LLC ("Lattice") on July 29, 2016 required the Company to make payments to former owners of Lattice of up to $60 contingent upon growth in exchange-traded products ("ETP") assets under management ("AUM") over a period of four years beginning on the date of acquisition. The contingent consideration was measured at fair value on a quarterly basis by projecting future eligible ETP AUM over the contingency period to estimate the amount of expected payout. The future expected payout had been discounted back to the valuation date using a risk-adjusted discount rate of 10.0%. The risk-adjusted discount rate is an internally generated and significant unobservable input to fair value.
In January 2020, we made a third payment of $10 after Lattice AUM reached $3.0 billion. Given the dramatic market declines and outflow in March, 2020, Lattice AUM declined to $2.3 billion as of March 30, 2020 and the Company reduced the remaining contingent consideration liability to zero, recognizing an $11.9

before tax reduction in expense in first quarter 2020. The earn out period ended on July 29, 2020 with no additional consideration payable.
Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using Significant Unobservable Inputs
The Company uses derivative instruments to manage the risk associated with certain assets and liabilities. However, the derivative instrument may not be classified within the same fair value hierarchy level as the associated asset or liability. Therefore, the realized and unrealized gains and losses on derivatives reported in the Level 3 rollforward may be offset by realized and unrealized gains and losses of the associated assets and liabilities in other line items of the financial statements.

153

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Fair Value Rollforwards for Financial Instruments Classified as Level 3 for the Year Ended December 31, 2020

-------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------- --------- ----------- ----- -------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ---- ----- ----- ----- --- - - - - - ---- - - -
 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses)
 Fair value as of January 1, 2020 Included in net income [1] Included in OCI [2] Purchases Settlements Sales Transfers into Level 3 [3] Transfers out of Level 3 [3] Fair value as of December 31, 2020
Assets
Fixed Maturities, AFS
 ABS $ 15 $ — $ (1) $ 43 $ — $ — $ — $ (57) $ —
 CLOs 95 — 1 389 (43) — — (82) 360
 CMBS 9 — 3 79 (5) — 13 (22) 77
 Corporate 732 (31) 31 272 (143) (36) 486 (430) 881
 Foreign Govt./Govt. Agencies 3 — — 6 — — — (3) 6
 Municipal — (3) 2 — — (6) 7 — —
 RMBS 560 — (11) 66 (182) (7) — (45) 381
Total Fixed Maturities, AFS 1,414 (34) 25 855 (373) (49) 506 (639) 1,705

Equity Securities, at fair value 73 (10) — 6 — — 1 — 70

Short-term investments 15 — — 30 (15) — — — 30
Total Assets 1,502 (44) 25 891 (388) (49) 507 (639) 1,805
Liabilities
Derivatives, net [4]
 Equity (15) 36 — — (21) — — — —
Total Derivatives, net [4] (15) 36 — — (21) — — — —
Contingent Consideration (22) 12 — — 10 — — — —
Total Liabilities $ (37) $ 48 $ — $ — $ (11) $ — $ — $ — $ —

154

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Fair Value Rollforwards for Financial Instruments Classified as Level 3 for the Year Ended December 31, 2019

-------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------- --------- ----------- ----- -------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----- ---- -- -- ----- ----- ----- ---- - - - - - ---- - ---- --
 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses)
 Fair value as of January 1, 2019 Included in net income [1] Included in OCI [2] Purchases Settlements Sales Transfers into Level 3 [3] Transfers out of Level 3 [3] Fair value as of December 31, 2019
Assets
Fixed Maturities, AFS
 ABS $ 10 $ — $ — $ 20 $ (1) $ — $ — $ (14) $ 15
 CLOs 100 — — 329 (127) (6) — (201) 95
 CMBS 12 — 1 34 (4) — — (34) 9
 Corporate 520 (4) 16 354 (59) (88) 61 (68) 732
 Foreign Govt./Govt. Agencies 3 — — — — — — — 3

 RMBS 920 1 (8) 134 (214) (35) — (238) 560
Total Fixed Maturities, AFS 1,565 (3) 9 871 (405) (129) 61 (555) 1,414

Equity Securities, at fair value 77 — — 9 — (13) — — 73
Derivatives, net [4]

 Interest rate 1 (1) — — — — — — —

Total Derivatives, net [4] 1 (1) — — — — — — —
Short-term investments — — — 15 — — — — 15
Total Assets 1,643 (4) 9 895 (405) (142) 61 (555) 1,502
Liabilities
Derivatives, net [4]
 Equity 3 (18) — — — — — — (15)
Total Derivatives, net [4] 3 (18) — — — — — — (15)

Contingent Considerations (35) (7) — — 20 — — — (22)
Total Liabilities $ (32) $ (25) $ — $ — $ 20 $ — $ — $ — $ (37)

[1]Amounts in these columns are generally reported in net realized capital gains (losses). All amounts are before income taxes.
[2]All amounts are before income taxes.
[3]Transfers in and/or (out) of Level 3 are primarily attributable to the availability of market observable information and the re-evaluation of the observability of pricing inputs. Transfers into and out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2020, were primarily related to private securities that were priced using internal matrix pricing in the prior period, but changed to broker pricing in the current period and inversely, private securities that were priced using broker pricing in the prior period, but changed to internal matrix pricing in the current period.
[4]Derivative instruments are reported in this table on a net basis for asset (liability) positions and reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other investments and other liabilities.

155

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Changes in Unrealized Gains (Losses) for Financial Instruments Classified as Level 3 Still Held at Year End

-------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------- ---- -- --- - - - -
 December 31,
 2020 2019
 Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in Net Income [1] [2] Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in OCI [3] Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in Net Income [1] [2] Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in OCI [3]
Assets
Fixed Maturities, AFS

 CLOs $ — $ 1 $ — $ —
 CMBS — 4 — 1
 Corporate (21) 24 (2) 15
 Foreign Govt./Govt. Agencies — — — 1

 RMBS — (10) — (7)
Total Fixed Maturities, AFS (21) 19 (2) 10

Equity Securities, at fair value (9) — 1 —
Derivatives, net

 Equity — — (18) —
 Interest rate — — (1) —

Total Derivatives, net — — (19) —
Total Assets (30) 19 (20) 10
Liabilities
Contingent Consideration 12 — (7) —
Total Liabilities $ 12 $ — $ (7) $ —

[1]All amounts in these rows are reported in net realized capital gains (losses). All amounts are before income taxes.
[2]Amounts presented are for Level 3 only and therefore may not agree to other disclosures included herein.
[3]Changes in unrealized gain (loss) on fixed maturities, AFS are reported in changes in net unrealized gain on securities in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Changes in interest rate derivatives are reported in changes in net gain on cash flow hedging instruments in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value
Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Carried at Fair Value

--------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------- ----------------- -------------------------- ------------------- ---------- ------- - ----- - -----
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Fair Value Hierarchy Level Carrying Amount [1] Fair Value Fair Value Hierarchy Level Carrying Amount [1] Fair Value
Assets

Mortgage loans Level 3 $ 4,493 $ 4,792 Level 3 $ 4,215 $ 4,350
Liabilities
Other policyholder funds and benefits payable Level 3 $ 701 $ 703 Level 3 $ 763 $ 765
Senior notes [2] Level 2 $ 3,262 $ 4,363 Level 2 $ 3,759 $ 4,456
Junior subordinated debentures [2] Level 2 $ 1,090 $ 1,107 Level 2 $ 1,089 $ 1,153

[1] As of December 31, 2020, carrying amount of mortgage loans is net of ACL of $38.
[2] Included in long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, except for current maturities, which are included in short-term debt.

156

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
6. INVESTMENTS
Net Investment Income

------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ---- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(Before tax) 2020 2019 2018
Fixed maturities [1] $ 1,442 $ 1,559 $ 1,459
Equity securities 39 46 32
Mortgage loans 172 165 141

Limited partnerships and other alternative investments 222 232 205
Other investments [2] 42 32 20
Investment expenses (71) (83) (77)

Total net investment income $ 1,846 $ 1,951 $ 1,780

[1]Includes net investment income on short-term investments.
[2]Primarily includes changes in fair value of certain equity fund investments and income from derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting and are used to hedge fixed maturities.
Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(Before tax) 2020 2019 2018
Gross gains on sales $ 255 $ 234 $ 114
Gross losses on sales (50) (56) (172)
Equity securities [1] (214) 254 (48)
Net credit losses on fixed maturities, AFS [2] (28)
Change in ACL on mortgage loans [3] (19)

Intent-to-sell impairments (5) — —
Net OTTI losses recognized in earnings (3) (1)
Valuation allowances on mortgage loans 1 —

Other, net [4] 47 (35) (5)
Net realized capital gains (losses) $ (14) $ 395 $ (112)

[1] The net unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities included in net realized capital gains (losses) related to equity securities still held as of December 31, 2020, were $53 for the year-ended December 31, 2020. The net unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities included in net realized capital gains (losses) related to equity securities still held as of December 31, 2019, were $164 for the year-ended December 31, 2019. The net unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities included in net realized capital gains (losses) related to equity securities still held as of December 31, 2018, were $(80) for the year-ended December 31, 2018.
[2]Due to the adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020, realized capital losses previously reported as OTTI are now presented as credit losses which are net of any recoveries. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[3] Represents the change in ACL recorded during the period following the adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[4]Includes gains (losses) on non-qualifying derivatives for 2020, 2019, and 2018 of $104, $(24), and $(12), respectively, gains (losses) from transactional foreign currency revaluation of $(1), $(9) and $1, respectively, and a loss of $48 from the sale of the Continental Europe Operations for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Sales of AFS Securities

--------------------- -------------------------------- ------ ---- - ------ - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Fixed maturities, AFS
Sale proceeds $ 15,059 $ 14,421 $ 21,327
Gross gains $ 254 $ 233 $ 90
Gross losses $ (50) $ (56) $ (169)

Sales of AFS securities in 2020 were primarily a result of tactical changes to the portfolio driven by changing market conditions and to a lesser extent duration and liquidity management.

Accrued Interest Receivable on Fixed Maturities, AFS and Mortgage Loans
As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the Company reported accrued interest receivable related to fixed maturities, AFS of $327 and $334, respectively, and accrued interest receivable related to mortgage loans of $14 and $14, respectively. These amounts are recorded in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are not included in the carrying value of the fixed maturities or mortgage loans. The Company does not include the current accrued interest receivable balance when estimating the ACL. The Company has a policy to write-off accrued interest receivable balances that are more than 90 days past due. Write-offs of accrued interest receivable are recorded as a credit loss component of net realized capital gains and losses.

157

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Interest income on fixed maturities and mortgage loans is accrued unless it is past due over 90 days or management deems the interest uncollectible.
Recognition and Presentation of Intent-to-Sell Impairments and ACL on Fixed Maturities, AFS
The Company will record an "intent-to-sell impairment" as a reduction to the amortized cost of fixed maturities, AFS in an unrealized loss position if the Company intends to sell or it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the fixed maturity before a recovery in value. A corresponding charge is recorded in net realized capital losses equal to the difference between the fair value on the impairment date and the amortized cost basis of the fixed maturity before recognizing the impairment.
When fixed maturities are in an unrealized loss position and the Company does not record an intent-to-sell impairment, the Company will record an ACL for the portion of the unrealized loss due to a credit loss. Any remaining unrealized loss on a fixed maturity after recording an ACL is the non-credit amount and is recorded in OCI. The ACL is the excess of the amortized cost over the greater of the Company's best estimate of the present value of expected future cash flows or the security's fair value. Cash flows are discounted at the effective yield that is used to record interest income. The ACL cannot exceed the unrealized loss and, therefore, it may fluctuate with changes in the fair value of the fixed maturity if the fair value is greater than the Company's best estimate of the present value of expected future cash flows. The initial ACL and any subsequent changes are recorded in net realized capital gains and losses. The ACL is written off against the amortized cost in the period in which all or a portion of the related fixed maturity is determined to be uncollectible.
Developing the Company’s best estimate of expected future cash flows is a quantitative and qualitative process that incorporates information received from third-party sources along with certain

internal assumptions regarding the future performance. The Company's considerations include, but are not limited to, (a) changes in the financial condition of the issuer and/or the underlying collateral, (b) whether the issuer is current on contractually obligated interest and principal payments, (c) credit ratings, (d) payment structure of the security and (e) the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost of the security.
For non-structured securities, assumptions include, but are not limited to, economic and industry-specific trends and fundamentals, instrument-specific developments including changes in credit ratings, industry earnings multiples and the issuer’s ability to restructure, access capital markets, and execute asset sales.
For structured securities, assumptions include, but are not limited to, various performance indicators such as historical and projected default and recovery rates, credit ratings, current and projected delinquency rates, loan-to-value ratios ("LTVs"), average cumulative collateral loss rates that vary by vintage year, prepayment speeds, and property value declines. These assumptions require the use of significant management judgment and include the probability of issuer default and estimates regarding timing and amount of expected recoveries which may include estimating the underlying collateral value.
Prior to January 1, 2020, the Company recorded an OTTI loss on fixed maturities for which the Company did not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis. For these securities, the excess of the amortized cost basis over its fair value was separated into the portion representing a credit OTTI, which was recorded in net realized capital losses, and the remaining non-credit amount, which was recorded in OCI. The Company’s best estimate of discounted expected future cash flows became the new cost basis and accreted prospectively into net investment income over the estimated remaining life of the security.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ----- - --- - --
ACL on Fixed Maturities, AFS by Type
 Year ended 2020
(Before tax) Corporate Municipal Total
Balance, beginning of year $ — $ — $ —
Credit losses on fixed maturities where an allowance was not previously recorded 36 3 39

Reduction due to sales (4) (3) (7)

Net increases (decreases) on fixed maturities where an allowance was previously recorded (9) — (9)

Balance as of end of period $ 23 $ — $ 23

158

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- --- - ----
Cumulative Credit Impairments on Fixed Maturities, AFS
 For the years ended December 31,
(Before tax) 2019 2018
Balance as of beginning of period $ (19) $ (25)
Additions for credit impairments recognized on [1]:
Fixed maturities not previously impaired (3) —
Fixed maturities previously impaired — (1)
Reductions for credit impairments previously recognized on:
Fixed maturities that matured or were sold during the period 3 7

Balance as of end of period $ (19) $ (19)

[1]These additions are included in the net OTTI losses recognized in earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Fixed Maturities, AFS

------------------------------ ----------------- ------- -------------------- --------------------- --------- ------------- -------------------- --------------------- --------- ------------------ ------ - ------ ---- - ------ --- ----- - ---- - ------ - ---
Fixed Maturities, AFS, by Type
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 AmortizedCost ACL [1] GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Non-CreditOTTI [2]
ABS $ 1,525 $ — $ 39 $ — $ 1,564 $ 1,461 $ 18 $ (3) $ 1,476 $ —
CLOs 2,780 — 7 (7) 2,780 2,186 5 (8) 2,183 —
CMBS 4,219 — 286 (21) 4,484 4,210 141 (13) 4,338 (4)
Corporate 18,401 (23) 1,926 (31) 20,273 16,435 986 (25) 17,396 —
Foreign govt./govt. agencies 842 — 77 — 919 1,057 66 — 1,123 —
Municipal 8,564 — 940 (1) 9,503 8,763 737 (2) 9,498 —
RMBS 3,966 — 144 (3) 4,107 4,775 97 (3) 4,869 —
U.S. Treasuries 1,264 — 141 — 1,405 1,191 75 (1) 1,265 —
Total fixed maturities, AFS $ 41,561 $ (23) $ 3,560 $ (63) $ 45,035 $ 40,078 $ 2,125 $ (55) $ 42,148 $ (4)

[1]Represents the ACL recorded following the adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[2]Represents the amount of cumulative non-credit impairment losses recognized in OCI on fixed maturities that also had credit impairments. These losses are included in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2019.
Fixed Maturities, AFS, by Contractual Maturity Year

------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- -------------- ---------- ------ ------ ------ - ------
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value
One year or less $ 1,411 $ 1,432 $ 1,082 $ 1,090
Over one year through five years 7,832 8,286 7,200 7,401
Over five years through ten years 7,622 8,354 7,395 7,803
Over ten years 12,206 14,028 11,769 12,988
Subtotal 29,071 32,100 27,446 29,282
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities 12,490 12,935 12,632 12,866
Total fixed maturities, AFS $ 41,561 $ 45,035 $ 40,078 $ 42,148

Estimated maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment provisions. Due to the potential for variability in payment speeds (i.e. prepayments or extensions), mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are not categorized by contractual maturity.

Concentration of Credit Risk
The Company aims to maintain a diversified investment portfolio including issuer, sector and geographic stratification, where applicable, and has established certain exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures to mitigate credit risk. The Company had no investment exposure to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of

159

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

the Company's stockholders' equity, other than the U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies as of December 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies, the Company’s three largest exposures by issuer were Apple Inc., the IBM Corporation, and the New York State Dormitory Authority each of which comprised less than 1% of total invested assets. As of December 31, 2019, other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies, the Company’s three largest exposures by issuer were the Government of the United Kingdom, the New York State

Dormitory Authority, and Wells Fargo & Company each of which comprised less than 1% of total invested assets. The Company’s three largest exposures by sector as of December 31, 2020 were the municipal sector, the financial services sector, and the CMBS sector which comprised approximately 17%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of total invested assets. The Company’s three largest exposures by sector as of December 31, 2019 were the municipal, RMBS, and CMBS sectors which comprised approximately 18%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of total invested assets.
Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturities, AFS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------- ---- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------------- - ----- ---- - ----- - ----
Unrealized Loss Aging for Fixed Maturities, AFS by Type and Length of Time as of December 31, 2020
 Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or More Total
 Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses
ABS $ 44 $ — $ — $ — $ 44 $ —
CLOs 758 (2) 715 (5) 1,473 (7)
CMBS 410 (17) 19 (4) 429 (21)
Corporate 466 (13) 212 (18) 678 (31)
Foreign govt./govt. agencies 24 — — — 24 —
Municipal 34 (1) — — 34 (1)
RMBS 461 (3) 21 — 482 (3)
U.S. Treasuries 39 — — — 39 —
Total fixed maturities, AFS in an unrealized loss position $ 2,236 $ (36) $ 967 $ (27) $ 3,203 $ (63)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------- --- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------------- - ----- ---- - ----- - ----
Unrealized Loss Aging for Fixed Maturities, AFS by Type and Length of Time as of December 31, 2019
 Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or More Total
 Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses
ABS $ 398 $ (3) $ 9 $ — $ 407 $ (3)
CLOs 679 (2) 923 (6) 1,602 (8)
CMBS 538 (7) 20 (6) 558 (13)
Corporate 789 (9) 328 (16) 1,117 (25)
Foreign govt./govt. agencies 101 — 29 — 130 —
Municipal 222 (2) — — 222 (2)
RMBS 614 (3) 68 — 682 (3)
U.S. Treasuries 88 — 34 (1) 122 (1)
Total fixed maturities, AFS in an unrealized loss position $ 3,429 $ (26) $ 1,411 $ (29) $ 4,840 $ (55)

As of December 31, 2020, fixed maturities, AFS in an unrealized loss position consisted of 547 instruments, primarily in the corporate sectors, most notably travel, leisure, gaming, energy and financial services issuers, and CMBS which were depressed largely due to widening of credit spreads since the purchase date. As of December 31, 2020, 95% of these fixed maturities were depressed less than 20% of cost or amortized cost. The increase in gross unrealized losses during 2020 was primarily attributable to wider credit spreads within higher yielding corporates and CMBS.

Most of the fixed maturities depressed for twelve months or more relate to the corporate sector. Corporate fixed maturities were primarily depressed because current market spreads are wider than at the respective purchase dates, with certain securities also depressed because of their variable-rate coupons and long-dated maturities. The Company neither has an intention to sell nor does it expect to be required to sell the fixed maturities outlined in the preceding discussion. The decision to record credit losses on fixed maturities, AFS in the form of an ACL requires us to make qualitative and quantitative estimates of expected future cash flows. Given the uncertainty about the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on issuers of these securities, actual cash flows could ultimately deviate significantly from our expectations resulting in realized losses in future periods.

160

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Mortgage Loans

ACL on Mortgage Loans
The Company reviews mortgage loans on a quarterly basis to estimate the ACL with changes in the ACL recorded in net realized capital gains and losses. Apart from an ACL recorded on individual mortgage loans where the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, the Company records an ACL on the pool of mortgage loans based on lifetime expected credit losses. The Company utilizes a third-party forecasting model to estimate lifetime expected credit losses at a loan level under multiple economic scenarios. The scenarios use macroeconomic data provided by an internationally recognized economics firm that generates forecasts of varying economic factors such as GDP growth, unemployment and interest rates. The economic scenarios are projected over 10 years. The first two to four years of the 10-year period assume a specific modeled economic scenario (including moderate upside, moderate recession and severe recession scenarios) and then revert to historical long-term assumptions over the remaining period. Using these economic scenarios, the forecasting model projects property-specific operating income and capitalization rates used to estimate the value of a future operating income stream. The operating income and the property valuations derived from capitalization rates are compared to loan payment and principal amounts to create debt service coverage ratios ("DSCRs") and loan-to-value ratios ("LTVs") over the forecast period. The model overlays historical data about mortgage loan performance based on DSCRs and LTVs and projects the probability of default, amount of loss given a default and resulting expected loss through maturity for each loan under each economic scenario. Economic scenarios are probability-weighted based on a statistical analysis of the forecasted economic factors and qualitative analysis. The Company records the change in the ACL on mortgage loans based on the weighted-average expected credit losses across the selected economic scenarios.
In response to significant economic stress experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, during 2020 the Company increased the weight of both a moderate and severe recession in our estimate of the ACL. The Company continues to monitor economic uncertainty including rising COVID-19 infections leading to short-term lockdowns and the corresponding impact that this might have on the mortgage loan portfolio.
We expect the impact on our mortgage loan portfolio will be impacted by borrower behavior in response to the economic stress. Borrowers with lower LTVs have an incentive to continue to make payments of principal and/or interest in order to preserve the equity they have in the underlying commercial real estate properties. As property values decline, borrowers have less incentive to continue to make payments.
When a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, including when foreclosure is probable, the Company measures an ACL on individual mortgage loans. The ACL is established for any shortfall between the amortized cost of the loan and the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. Estimates of collectibility from an individual borrower require the use of significant management judgment and include the probability and timing of borrower default and loss severity estimates. In addition, cash flow

projections may change based upon new information about the borrower's ability to pay and/or the value of underlying collateral such as changes in projected property value estimates. As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not have any mortgage loans for which an ACL was established on an individual basis.
Prior to January 1, 2020, for mortgage loans that were deemed impaired, a valuation allowance was established for the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value, which was generally the Company's share of the fair value of the collateral. A valuation allowance also may have been recorded for an individual loan or for a group of loans that had an LTV ratio of 90% or greater, a low DSCR or other lower credit quality characteristics. Changes in valuation allowances were recognized as net realized capital losses.
There were no mortgage loans held-for-sale as of December 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had no mortgage loans that have had extensions or restructurings other than what is allowable under the original terms of the contract.

------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - - - -
ACL on Mortgage Loans
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
ACL as of beginning of period $ — $ 1 $ 1
Cumulative effect of accounting changes [1] 19
Adjusted beginning ACL 19 1 1
Current period provision (release) 19 (1) —

ACL as of December 31, $ 38 $ — $ 1

[1] Represents the adjustment to the ACL recorded on adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
The increase in the allowance for the year-ended December 31, 2020, is the result of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on the economic forecasts, as discussed above, as well as lower estimated property values and operating income as compared to the prior year.
The weighted-average LTV ratio of the Company’s mortgage loan portfolio was 55% as of December 31, 2020, while the weighted-average LTV ratio at origination of these loans was 60%. LTV ratios compare the loan amount to the value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan with property values based on appraisals updated no less than annually. Factors considered in estimating property values include, among other things, actual and expected property cash flows, geographic market data and the ratio of the property's net operating income to its value. DSCR compares a property’s net operating income to the borrower’s principal and interest payments and are updated no less than annually through reviews of underlying properties.

161

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

--------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------- -------------- --------- -------------- ------------ -------------- --------- -------------- --------- -------------- --------- ------------------ --------- ----- ----- - ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- -----
Mortgage Loans LTV & DSCR by Origination Year as of December 31, 2020
 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 & Prior Total
Loan-to-value Amortized Cost Avg. DSCR Amortized Cost Avg. DSCR Amortized Cost Avg. DSCR Amortized Cost Avg. DSCR Amortized Cost Avg. DSCR Amortized Cost Avg. DSCR Amortized Cost [1] Avg. DSCR

65% - 80% $ 28 1.62x $ 243 1.58x $ 212 1.33x $ 45 2.02x $ 51 1.92x $ 115 1.74x $ 694 1.59x
Less than 65% 659 2.56x 676 2.85x 410 2.25x 446 1.89x 235 2.99x 1,411 3.01x 3,837 2.69x
Total mortgage loans $ 687 2.52x $ 919 2.51x $ 622 1.94x $ 491 1.90x $ 286 2.80x $ 1,526 2.92x $ 4,531 2.52x

 [1] Amortized cost of mortgage loans excludes ACL of $38.

------------------------- ----------------- -------------- --------- ----- -----
Mortgage Loans LTV & DSCR
 December 31, 2019
Loan-to-value Amortized Cost Avg. DSCR

65% - 80% $ 376 1.53x
Less than 65% 3,839 2.56x
Total mortgage loans $ 4,215 2.46x

------------------------ ------------------ ---------------- ----------------- -------------- ---------------- --- - ----- - ----- -
Mortgage Loans by Region
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Amortized Cost [1] Percent of Total Amortized Cost Percent of Total
East North Central $ 290 6.4 % $ 270 6.4 %

Middle Atlantic 291 6.4 % 319 7.5 %
Mountain 254 5.6 % 109 2.6 %
New England 397 8.8 % 344 8.2 %
Pacific 1,001 22.1 % 906 21.5 %
South Atlantic 1,038 22.9 % 944 22.4 %
West North Central 44 1.0 % 46 1.1 %
West South Central 433 9.5 % 439 10.4 %
Other [2] 783 17.3 % 838 19.9 %
Total mortgage loans $ 4,531 100.0 % $ 4,215 100.0 %

[1] Amortized cost of mortgage loans excludes ACL of $38.
[2]Primarily represents loans collateralized by multiple properties in various regions.

------------------------------- ------------------ ---------------- ----------------- -------------- ---------------- ----- - ----- - ----- -
Mortgage Loans by Property Type
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Amortized Cost [1] Percent of Total Amortized Cost Percent of Total
Commercial

Industrial $ 1,339 29.5 % $ 1,167 27.7 %

Multifamily 1,498 33.1 % 1,313 31.2 %
Office 774 17.1 % 723 17.2 %
Retail 788 17.4 % 735 17.4 %
Single Family 92 2.0 % 137 3.2 %
Other 40 0.9 % 140 3.3 %
Total mortgage loans $ 4,531 100.0 % $ 4,215 100.0 %

[1] Amortized cost of mortgage loans excludes ACL of $38.

Past-Due Mortgage Loans
Mortgage loans are considered past due if a payment of principal or interest is not received according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement, which typically includes a grace period. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the Company held no mortgage loans considered past due.
Mortgage Servicing
The Company originates, sells and services commercial mortgage loans on behalf of third parties and recognizes servicing fee income over the period that services are performed. As of December 31, 2020, under this program, the Company serviced mortgage loans with a total outstanding principal of $6.9 billion, of which $3.7 billion was serviced on behalf of third parties and $3.2 billion was retained and reported in total investments on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2019, the Company serviced mortgage loans with a total outstanding principal balance of $6.4 billion, of which $3.5 billion was serviced on behalf of third parties and $2.9 billion was retained and reported in total investments on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. Servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or fair value and were $0 as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, because servicing fees were market-level fees at origination and remain adequate to compensate the Company for servicing the loans.
Purchased Financial Assets with Credit Deterioration
Purchased financial assets with credit deterioration ("PCD") are purchased financial assets with a “more-than-insignificant” amount of credit deterioration since origination. PCD assets are assessed only at initial acquisition date and for any investments identified, the Company records an allowance at acquisition with a corresponding increase to the amortized cost basis. As of December 31, 2020, the Company held no PCD fixed maturities, AFS or mortgage loans.
Variable Interest Entities
The Company is engaged with various special purpose entities and other entities that are deemed to be VIEs primarily as an investor through normal investment activities but also as an investment manager.
A VIE is an entity that either has investors that lack certain essential characteristics of a controlling financial interest, such as simple majority kick-out rights, or lacks sufficient funds to finance its own activities without financial support provided by other entities. The Company performs ongoing qualitative assessments

162

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

of its VIEs to determine whether the Company has a controlling financial interest in the VIE and therefore is the primary beneficiary. The Company is deemed to have a controlling financial interest when it has both the ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Based on the Company’s assessment, if it determines it is the primary beneficiary, the Company consolidates the VIE in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated VIEs
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not hold any securities for which it is the primary beneficiary.
Non-Consolidated VIEs
The Company, through normal investment activities, makes passive investments in limited partnerships and other alternative investments. For these non-consolidated VIEs, the Company has determined it is not the primary beneficiary as it has no ability to direct activities that could significantly affect the economic performance of the investments. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 is limited to the total carrying value of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, which are included in limited partnerships and other alternative investments in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company has outstanding commitments totaling $768 and $851, respectively, whereby the Company is committed to fund these investments and may be called by the partnership during the commitment period to fund the purchase of new investments and partnership expenses. These investments are generally of a passive nature in that the Company does not take an active role in management.
In addition, the Company makes passive investments in structured securities issued by VIEs for which the Company is not the manager. These investments are included in ABS, CLOs, CMBS and RMBS and are reported in fixed maturities, available-for-sale. The Company has not provided financial or other support with respect to these investments other than its original investment. For these investments, the Company determined it is not the primary beneficiary due to the relative size of the Company’s investment in comparison to the principal amount of the structured securities issued by the VIEs, the level of credit subordination which reduces the Company’s obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits and the Company’s inability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIEs. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss on these investments is limited to the amount of the Company’s investment.
Securities Lending, Repurchase Agreements, Other Collateral Transactions and Restricted Investments
The Company may at times enter into securities financing transactions as a way to earn additional income or manage liquidity, primarily through securities lending and repurchase agreements.

------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- - ---
Securities Lending and Repurchase Agreements
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Fair Value Fair Value
Securities Lending Transactions:
Gross amount of securities on loan $ — $ 606
Gross amount of associated liability for collateral received [1] $ — $ 621

Repurchase agreements:

Gross amount of recognized receivables for reverse repurchase agreements $ 30 $ 15

[1]Cash collateral received is reinvested in fixed maturities, AFS and short term investments which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amount includes additional securities collateral received of $0 and $34 which are excluded from the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Securities Lending
Under a securities lending program, the Company lends certain fixed maturities within the corporate, foreign government/government agencies, and municipal sectors as well as equity securities to qualifying third-party borrowers in return for collateral in the form of cash or securities. For domestic and non-domestic loaned securities, respectively, borrowers provide collateral of 102% and 105% of the fair value of the securities lent at the time of the loan. Borrowers will return the securities to the Company for cash or securities collateral at maturity dates generally of 90 days or less. Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection with securities lending transactions may not be sold or re-pledged, except in the event of default by the counterparty, and is not reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additional collateral is obtained if the fair value of the collateral falls below 100% of the fair value of the loaned securities. The agreements are continuous and do not have stated maturity dates and provide the counterparty the right to sell or re-pledge the securities loaned. If cash, rather than securities, is received as collateral, the cash is typically invested in short-term investments or fixed maturities and is reported as an asset on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. Income associated with securities lending transactions is reported as a component of net investment income in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of December 31, 2020, the Company does not have any securities on loan as part of a securities lending program.
Repurchase Agreements
From time to time, the Company enters into repurchase agreements to manage liquidity or to earn incremental income. A repurchase agreement is a transaction in which one party (transferor) agrees to sell securities to another party (transferee) in return for cash (or securities), with a simultaneous agreement to repurchase the same securities at a specified price at a later date. The maturity of these transactions is generally ninety days or less. Repurchase agreements include master netting provisions that provide both parties the right to offset claims and apply securities held by them with respect to their obligations in the event of a default. Although the Company has the contractual right to offset claims, the Company's current positions do not meet the specific conditions for net presentation.

163

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Under repurchase agreements, the Company transfers collateral of U.S. government and government agency securities and receives cash. For repurchase agreements, the Company obtains cash in an amount equal to at least 95% of the fair value of the securities transferred. The agreements require additional collateral to be transferred under specified conditions and provide the counterparty the right to sell or re-pledge the securities transferred. The cash received from the repurchase program is typically invested in short-term investments or fixed maturities and is reported as an asset on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company accounts for the repurchase agreements as collateralized borrowings. The securities transferred under repurchase agreements are included in fixed maturities, AFS with the obligation to repurchase those securities recorded in other liabilities on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
From time to time, the Company enters into reverse repurchase agreements where the Company purchases securities and simultaneously agrees to resell the same or substantially the same securities. The maturity of these transactions is generally within one year. The agreements require additional collateral to be transferred to the Company under specified conditions and the Company has the right to sell or re-pledge the securities received. The Company accounts for reverse repurchase agreements as collateralized financing. The receivable for reverse repurchase agreements is included within short-term investments in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Other Collateral Transactions
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company pledged collateral of $34 and $37, respectively, of U.S. government securities and municipal securities or cash primarily related to certain bank loan participations committed to through a limited partnership agreement. These amounts also include collateral related to letters of credit.
For disclosure of collateral in support of derivative transactions, refer to the Derivative Collateral Arrangements section in Note 7 - Derivatives.
Other Restricted Investments
The Company is required by law to deposit securities with government agencies in certain states in which it conducts business. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair value of securities on deposit was $2.6 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively.
In addition, as of December 31, 2020, the Company held fixed maturities and short-term investments of $661 and $26, respectively, in trust for the benefit of syndicate policyholders, held fixed maturities of $175 in a Lloyd's trust account to provide a portion of the required capital, and maintained other investments of $54 primarily consisting of overseas deposits in various countries with Lloyd's to support underwriting activities in those countries. As of December 31, 2019, the Company held fixed maturities and short-term investments of $447 and $189, respectively, in trust and other investments of $38 primarily consisting of overseas deposits in various countries with Lloyd's.
Equity Method Investments
The majority of the Company's investments in limited partnerships and other alternative investments, including hedge funds, real estate funds, and private equity funds (collectively, “limited partnerships”), are accounted for under the equity

method of accounting. The remainder of investments in limited partnerships and other alternative investments consists of investments in insurer-owned life insurance accounted for at cash surrender value. The Company's investment in Hopmeadow Holdings LP is reported in other assets on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets and is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. For further discussion on Hopmeadow Holdings LP, see Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
The Company recognized total equity method income of $244, $267, and $214 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Equity method income is reported in net investment income, except amounts related to strategic investments classified in other assets which are reported in other revenues. For investments accounted for under the equity method, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2020 is limited to the total carrying value of $2.0 billion. In addition, the Company has outstanding commitments totaling $804 to fund limited partnership investments as of December 31, 2020. The Company’s investments accounted for under the equity method are generally of a passive nature in that the Company does not take an active role in the management.
In 2020, aggregate investment income from investments accounted for under the equity method exceeded 10% of the Company’s pre-tax consolidated net income (loss). Accordingly, the Company is disclosing aggregated, summarized financial data for the Company’s investments accounted for under the equity method. This aggregated, summarized financial data does not represent the Company’s proportionate share of investees' assets or earnings. Aggregate total assets of the investees totaled $339.6 billion and $329.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Aggregate total liabilities of the investees totaled $181.5 billion and $191.2 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Aggregate net investment income of the investees totaled $954, $618, and $773 for the periods ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Aggregate net income excluding net investment income of the investees totaled $7.4 billion, $13.4 billion and $12.3 billion for the periods ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of, and for the period ended, December 31, 2020, the aggregated summarized financial data reflects the latest available financial information.

164

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 7 - Derivatives

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
7. DERIVATIVES

The Company utilizes a variety of OTC, OTC-cleared and exchange traded derivative instruments as a part of its overall risk management strategy as well as to enter into replication transactions or income generation covered call transactions. Derivative instruments are used to manage risk associated with interest rate, equity market, credit spread, issuer default, price, and currency exchange rate or volatility. Replication transactions are used as an economical means to synthetically replicate the characteristics and performance of assets that are permissible investments under the Company’s investment policies.
Strategies that Qualify for Hedge Accounting
Some of the Company's derivatives satisfy hedge accounting requirements as outlined in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies. Typically, these hedging instruments include interest rate swaps and, to a lesser extent, foreign currency swaps where the terms or expected cash flows of the hedged item closely match the terms of the swap. The interest rate swaps are typically used to manage interest rate duration of certain fixed maturity securities or debt instruments issued.
Cash Flow Hedges
Interest rate swaps are predominantly used to manage portfolio duration and better match cash receipts from assets with cash disbursements required to fund liabilities. These derivatives primarily convert interest receipts on variable-rate fixed maturity securities to fixed rates. The Company has also entered into interest rate swaps to convert the variable interest payments on 3 month LIBOR + 2.125% junior subordinated debt to fixed interest payments. For further information, see the Junior Subordinated Debentures section within Note 14 - Debt.
Foreign currency swaps are used to convert foreign currency-denominated cash flows related to certain investment receipts to U.S. dollars in order to reduce cash flow fluctuations due to changes in currency rates.
The Company also previously entered into forward starting swap agreements to hedge the interest rate exposure related to the future purchase of fixed-rate securities, primarily to hedge interest rate risk inherent in the assumptions used to price certain group benefits liabilities.
Non-qualifying Strategies
Derivative relationships that do not qualify for hedge accounting (“non-qualifying strategies”) primarily include hedging and replication strategies that utilize credit default swaps. In addition, hedges of interest rate, foreign currency and equity risk of certain fixed maturities and equities do not qualify for hedge accounting. The non-qualifying strategies include:
Credit Contracts
Credit default swaps are used to purchase credit protection on an individual entity or referenced index to economically hedge

against default risk and credit-related changes in the value of fixed maturity securities. Credit default swaps are also used to assume credit risk related to an individual entity or referenced index as a part of replication transactions. These contracts require the Company to pay or receive a periodic fee in exchange for compensation from the counterparty or the Company should the referenced security issuers experience a credit event, as defined in the contract. In addition, the Company enters into credit default swaps to terminate existing credit default swaps, thereby offsetting the changes in value of the original swap going forward.
Interest Rate Swaps, Swaptions and Futures
The Company uses interest rate swaps, swaptions and futures to manage interest rate duration between assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swaps to terminate existing swaps, thereby offsetting the changes in value of the original swap going forward. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the notional amount of interest rate swaps in offsetting relationships was $7.6 billion.
Foreign Currency Swaps and Forwards
The Company enters into foreign currency swaps to convert the foreign currency exposures of certain foreign currency-denominated fixed maturity investments to U.S. dollars. The Company may at times enter into foreign currency forwards to hedge non-U.S. dollar denominated cash or equity securities.
Equity Index Options
The Company enters into equity index options to hedge the impact of a decline in the equity markets on the investment portfolio. The Company also enters into covered call options on equity securities to generate additional return.
Derivative Balance Sheet Classification
For reporting purposes, the Company has elected to offset within assets or liabilities based upon the net of the fair value amounts, income accruals, and related cash collateral receivables and payables of OTC derivative instruments executed in a legal entity and with the same counterparty under a master netting agreement, which provides the Company with the legal right of offset. The following fair value amounts do not include income accruals or related cash collateral receivables and payables, which are netted with derivative fair value amounts to determine balance sheet presentation. The Company’s derivative instruments are held for risk management purposes, unless otherwise noted in the following table. The notional amount of derivative contracts represents the basis upon which pay or receive amounts are calculated and is presented in the table to quantify the volume of the Company’s derivative activity. Notional amounts are not necessarily reflective of credit risk.

165

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 7 - Derivatives

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Derivative Balance Sheet Presentation

---------------------------------------------------- --------------- ----------------- --------------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ -- - ---- ---- -- ----- - -- - ---- - -----
 Net Derivatives Asset Derivatives Liability Derivatives
 Notional Amount Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value
Hedge Designation/ Derivative Type Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps $ 2,340 $ 2,040 $ — $ — $ — $ 1 $ — $ (1)
Foreign currency swaps 286 270 (13) (1) 3 3 (16) (4)
Total cash flow hedges 2,626 2,310 (13) (1) 3 4 (16) (5)

Non-qualifying strategies
Interest rate contracts
Interest rate swaps and futures 8,335 9,338 (69) (59) 4 3 (73) (62)
Foreign exchange contracts
Foreign currency swaps and forwards 269 464 — (1) — — — (1)

Credit contracts
Credit derivatives that purchase credit protection 6 124 — (3) — — — (3)
Credit derivatives that assume credit risk [1] 675 500 21 13 21 13 — —
Credit derivatives in offsetting positions 218 29 — — 5 5 (5) (5)
Equity contracts
Equity index swaps and options — 941 — (15) — 15 — (30)

Total non-qualifying strategies 9,503 11,396 (48) (65) 30 36 (78) (101)
Total cash flow hedges and non-qualifying strategies $ 12,129 $ 13,706 $ (61) $ (66) $ 33 $ 40 $ (94) $ (106)
Balance Sheet Location
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale $ 269 $ 244 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Other investments 9,585 1,277 23 12 25 13 (2) (1)
Other liabilities 2,275 12,185 (84) (78) 8 27 (92) (105)

Total derivatives $ 12,129 $ 13,706 $ (61) $ (66) $ 33 $ 40 $ (94) $ (106)

[1]The derivative instruments related to this strategy are held for other investment purposes.
Offsetting of Derivative Assets/Liabilities

The following tables present the gross fair value amounts, the amounts offset, and net position of derivative instruments eligible for offset in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amounts offset include fair value amounts, income accruals and related cash collateral receivables and payables associated with derivative instruments that are traded under a common master

netting agreement, as described in the preceding discussion. Also included in the tables are financial collateral receivables and payables, which are contractually permitted to be offset upon an event of default, although are disallowed for offsetting under U.S. GAAP.

166

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 7 - Derivatives

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Offsetting Derivative Assets and Liabilities

----------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------- - ---- - ---- - ---- - ----
 (i) (ii) (iii) = (i) - (ii) (iv) (v) = (iii) - (iv)
 Net Amounts Presented in the Statement of Financial Position Collateral Disallowed for Offset in the Statement of Financial Position
 Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets (Liabilities) Gross Amounts Offset in the Statement of Financial Position Derivative Assets [1] (Liabilities) [2] Accrued Interest and Cash Collateral (Received) [3] Pledged [2] Financial Collateral (Received) Pledged [4] Net Amount
As of December 31, 2020
Other investments $ 33 $ 31 $ 23 $ (21) $ 1 $ 1
Other liabilities $ (94) $ (6) $ (84) $ (4) $ (83) $ (5)
As of December 31, 2019
Other investments $ 40 $ 37 $ 12 $ (9) $ 1 $ 2
Other liabilities $ (106) $ (23) $ (78) $ (5) $ (73) $ (10)

[1]Included in other investments in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
[2]Included in other liabilities in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets and is limited to the net derivative payable associated with each counterparty.
[3]Included in other investments in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets and is limited to the net derivative receivable associated with each counterparty.
[4]Excludes collateral associated with exchange-traded derivative instruments.

Cash Flow Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a

component of OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. All components of each derivative’s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.

----------------------------- ----------------------- ---- ---- - -- - --
Gain (Loss) Recognized in OCI
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Interest rate swaps $ 38 $ 18 $ 5
Foreign currency swaps (8) 8 7
Total $ 30 $ 26 $ 12

------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------- - -------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------- --- -------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------- --- - ----- - --- - - ----- - ----- - ---
Gain (Loss) Reclassified from AOCI into Income
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
 Net Realized Capital Gain/(Loss) Net Investment Income Interest Expense Net Realized Capital Gain/(Loss) Net Investment Income Interest Expense Net Realized Capital Gain/(Loss) Net Investment Income Interest Expense
Interest rate swaps $ — $ 29 $ (7) $ 2 $ 4 $ 1 $ 6 $ 30 $ —
Foreign currency swaps (1) 5 — — 3 — — — —
Total $ (1) $ 34 $ (7) $ 2 $ 7 $ 1 $ 6 $ 30 $ —

Total amounts presented on the Consolidated Statement of Operations $ (14) $ 1,846 $ 236 $ 395 $ 1,951 $ 259 $ (112) $ 1,780 $ 298

As of December 31, 2020, the before tax deferred net gains on derivative instruments recorded in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next twelve months are $35. This expectation is based on the anticipated interest payments on hedged investments in fixed maturity securities and long-term debt that will occur over the next twelve months. At that time, the Company will recognize the deferred net gains (losses) as an

adjustment to net investment income and interest expense over the term of the investment cash flows.
During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company had no net reclassifications from AOCI to earnings resulting from the discontinuance of cash-flow hedges due to forecasted transactions that were no longer probable of occurring.

167

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 7 - Derivatives

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Non-Qualifying Strategies
For non-qualifying strategies, including embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated from their host contracts and

accounted for as derivatives, the gain or loss on the derivative is recognized currently in earnings within net realized capital gains (losses).
Non-Qualifying Strategies Recognized within Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

-------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- - ----
 For the Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Interest rate contracts
Interest rate swaps, swaptions and futures $ 21 $ (35) $ (3)
Credit contracts
Credit derivatives that purchase credit protection 2 (5) —
Credit derivatives that assume credit risk 2 32 (14)
Equity contracts
Equity options 76 (17) 2
Foreign exchange contracts
Foreign currency swaps and forwards 3 1 3

Total [1] $ 104 $ (24) $ (12)

[1]Excludes investments that contain an embedded credit derivative for which the Company has elected the fair value option.

Credit Risk Assumed through Credit Derivatives
The Company enters into credit default swaps that assume credit risk of a single entity or referenced index in order to synthetically replicate investment transactions that are permissible under the Company's investment policies. The Company will receive periodic payments based on an agreed upon rate and notional amount and will only make a payment if there is a credit event. A credit event payment will typically be equal to the notional value of the swap contract less the value of the referenced security

issuer’s debt obligation after the occurrence of the credit event. A credit event is generally defined as a default on contractually obligated interest or principal payments or bankruptcy of the referenced entity. The credit default swaps in which the Company assumes credit risk primarily reference investment grade single corporate issuers and baskets, which include standard diversified portfolios of corporate and CMBS issuers. The diversified portfolios of corporate issuers are established within sector concentration limits and may be divided into tranches that possess different credit ratings.

168

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 7 - Derivatives

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Credit Risk Assumed Derivatives by Type

------------------------------------ ------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------- - ---------------------------------------------- --------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------- ---------------- -- --- --- - -
 Underlying Referenced Credit Obligation(s) [1]
 Notional Amount [2] Fair Value Weighted Average Years to Maturity Type Average Credit Rating Offsetting Notional Amount [3] Offsetting Fair Value [3]
As of December 31, 2020
Single name credit default swaps
Investment grade risk exposure $ 175 $ 9 5 years Corporate Credit A- $ — $ —

Basket credit default swaps [4]
Investment grade risk exposure 500 12 5 years Corporate Credit BBB+ — —

Investment grade risk exposure 100 1 8 years CMBS Credit AAA 100 (1)
Below investment grade risk exposure 9 (4) Less than 1 year CMBS Credit CCC+ 9 4

Total [5] $ 784 $ 18 $ 109 $ 3
As of December 31, 2019
Single name credit default swaps
Investment grade risk exposure $ 100 $ 3 5 years Corporate Credit A- $ — $ —

Basket credit default swaps [4]
Investment grade risk exposure 400 10 5 years Corporate Credit BBB+ — —

Investment grade risk exposure 1 — Less than 1 year CMBS Credit A 1 —
Below investment grade risk exposure 14 (5) Less than 1 year CMBS Credit CCC- 14 5

Total [5] $ 515 $ 8 $ 15 $ 5

[1]The average credit ratings are based on availability and are generally the midpoint of the available ratings among Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used.
[2]Notional amount is equal to the maximum potential future loss amount. These derivatives are governed by agreements and applicable law which include collateral posting requirements. There is no additional specific collateral related to these contracts or recourse provisions included in the contracts to offset losses.
[3]The Company has entered into offsetting credit default swaps to terminate certain existing credit default swaps, thereby offsetting the future changes in value of, or losses paid related to, the original swap.
[4]Comprised of swaps of standard market indices of diversified portfolios of corporate and CMBS issuers referenced through credit default swaps. These swaps are subsequently valued based upon the observable standard market index.
[5]Excludes investments that contain an embedded credit derivative for which the Company has elected the fair value option.

Derivative Collateral Arrangements
The Company enters into various collateral arrangements in connection with its derivative instruments, which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company pledged cash collateral associated with derivative instruments having a fair value of $0 and less than $1, respectively. The collateral receivable has been recorded in other assets or other liabilities on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets as determined by the Company's election to offset on the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company also pledged securities collateral associated with derivative instruments with a fair value of $90 and $78, respectively, which have been included in fixed maturities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The counterparties generally have the right to sell or re-pledge these securities.
In addition, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 , the Company has pledged initial margin of securities related to OTC-cleared and

exchange traded derivatives with a fair value of $83 and $88, respectively, which are included within fixed maturities on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company accepted cash collateral associated with derivative instruments of $24 and $16, respectively, which was invested and recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in fixed maturities and short-term investments with corresponding amounts recorded in other investments or other liabilities as determined by the Company's election to offset on the balance sheet. The Company also accepted securities collateral as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 with a fair value of $1 and $1, respectively, which the Company has the ability to sell or repledge. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had no repledged securities and no securities held as collateral have been sold. In addition, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, non-cash collateral accepted was held in separate custodial accounts and was not included in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

169

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 8 - Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
8. PREMIUMS RECEIVABLE AND AGENTS' BALANCES

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- -----
Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances
 As of December 31, 2020

Premiums receivable, excluding receivables for losses within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums $ 3,851
Receivables for loss within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums, by credit quality:
AAA —
AA 142
A 62
BBB 185
BB 115
Below BB 65
Total receivables for losses within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums 569

Total Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances, Gross 4,420
ACL (152)
Total Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances, Net of ACL $ 4,268

ACL on Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances
Premium receivable and agents' balances, excluding receivables for losses within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums, are primarily comprised of premiums due from policyholders, which are typically collectible within one year or less. The Company had an immaterial amount of receivables with a due date of more than one year that are past-due. Balances are considered past due when amounts that have been billed are not collected within contractually stipulated time periods.
For these balances, the ACL is estimated based on an aging of receivables and recent historical credit loss and collection experience, adjusted for current economic conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts, when appropriate. In response to significant economic stress experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, the Company increased the expected loss factors used to estimate the ACL based on collections experience during past moderate and severe recessions as well as experience during periods when we provided policyholders additional time to make premiums payments.
A portion of the Company's Commercial Lines business is written with large deductibles or under retrospectively-rated plans. Under some commercial insurance contracts with a large deductible, the Company is obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim and the Company is subsequently reimbursed by the policyholder for the deductible amount. As such, the Company is subject to credit risk until reimbursement is made. Retrospectively-rated policies are utilized primarily for workers' compensation coverage, whereby the ultimate premium

is adjusted based on actual losses incurred. Although the premium adjustment feature of a retrospectively-rated policy substantially reduces insurance risk for the Company, it presents credit risk to the Company. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if a significant portion of such policyholders failed to reimburse the Company for the deductible amount or the amount of additional premium owed under retrospectively-rated policies. The Company manages these credit risks through credit analysis, collateral requirements, and oversight.
The ACL for receivables for loss within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums is estimated as the amount of the receivable exposed to loss multiplied by estimated factors for probability of default and the amount of loss given a default. The probability of default is assigned based on each policyholder's credit rating, or a rating is estimated if no external rating is available. Credit ratings are reviewed and updated at least annually. The exposure amount is estimated net of collateral and other credit enhancement, considering the nature of the collateral, potential future changes in collateral values, and historical loss information for the type of collateral obtained. The probability of default factors are historical corporate defaults for receivables with similar durations estimated through multiple economic cycles. Credit ratings are forward-looking and consider a variety of economic outcomes. The loss given default factors are based on a study of historical recovery rates for general creditors through multiple economic cycles. The Company's evaluation of the required ACL for receivables for loss within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums considers the current economic environment as well as the probability-weighted macroeconomic scenarios similar to the approach used for estimating the ACL for mortgage loans. See Note 6 - Investments. In response to significant economic stress experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, the Company increased the weight of both a moderate and severe recession scenario in our estimate of the ACL for losses within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums. However, overall, the ACL on receivables for losses within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums has decreased for the year, primarily due to a decline in the related receivable balance.

170

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 8 - Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- - ----- ---- - ---
Rollforward of ACL on Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances for the Year Ended December 31, 2020
 Premiums Receivable and Agents' Balances, Excluding Receivables for Loss within a Deductible and Retrospectively-Rated Policy Premiums Receivables for Loss within a Deductible and Retrospectively-Rated Policy Premiums Total
Beginning ACL $ 85 $ 60 $ 145
Cumulative effect of accounting change [1] (2) (21) (23)
Adjusted beginning ACL 83 39 122
Current period provision (release) 78 (4) 74
Current period gross write-offs (49) — (49)
Current period gross recoveries 5 — 5
Ending ACL $ 117 $ 35 $ 152

[1]Represents the adjustment to the ACL recorded on adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. The adjusted beginning ACL was based on the Company's historical loss information adjusted for current conditions and the forecasted economic environment at the time the guidance was adopted. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.

9. REINSURANCE

The Company cedes insurance risk to reinsurers to enable the Company to manage capital and risk exposure. Such arrangements do not relieve the Company of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to the Company. The Company's procedures include carefully selecting its reinsurers, structuring agreements to provide collateral funds where necessary, and regularly monitoring the financial condition and ratings of its reinsurers.
The Company has two adverse development cover (“ADC”) reinsurance agreements in place, both of which are accounted for as retroactive reinsurance. One agreement covers substantially all asbestos and environmental ("A&E") reserve development for 2016 and prior accident years ("A&E ADC") and the other covers substantially all reserve development of Navigators Insurance Company and certain of its affiliates for 2018 and prior accident years (the Navigators ADC). For more information on ADC agreements, see Note 1 -Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 12 -Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses.
Property and Casualty ceded losses, which reduce losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, were $1,156, $826 and $661 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Group Benefits ceded losses, which reduce losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, were $63, $73 and $116 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Reinsurance Recoverables
Reinsurance recoverables include balances due from reinsurance companies and are presented net of an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. Reinsurance recoverables include an estimate of the amount of gross losses and loss adjustment expense reserves that may be ceded under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, including incurred but not reported unpaid losses. The Company’s estimate of losses and loss adjustment expense reserves ceded to reinsurers is based on assumptions that are consistent with those used in establishing the gross reserves for amounts the Company owes to its claimants. The Company estimates its ceded reinsurance recoverables based on the terms of any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, including an estimate of how incurred but not reported losses will ultimately be ceded under reinsurance agreements. Accordingly, the Company’s estimate of reinsurance recoverables is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimate of the gross reserve for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses.

171

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 9 - Reinsurance

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -------------- --------- ----- --- ----- --- - -----
Reinsurance Recoverables by Credit Quality Indicator as of December 31, 2020
 Property and Casualty Group Benefits Corporate Total

AM Best Financial Strength Rating
A++ $ 1,598 $ — $ — $ 1,598
A+ 1,788 230 305 2,323
A 638 — — 638
A- 37 9 — 46
B++ 666 — 3 669
Below B++ 21 1 — 22
Total Rated by AM Best 4,748 240 308 5,296
Mandatory (Assigned) and Voluntary Risk Pools 259 — — 259
Captives 305 — — 305
Other not rated companies 254 5 — 259
Gross Reinsurance Recoverables 5,566 245 308 6,119
Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (105) (1) (2) (108)
Net Reinsurance Recoverables $ 5,461 $ 244 $ 306 $ 6,011

Balances are considered past due when amounts that have been billed are not collected within contractually stipulated time periods, generally 30, 60 or 90 days. There were no write-offs for the period ended December 31, 2020.
To manage reinsurer credit risk, a reinsurance security review committee evaluates the credit standing, financial performance, management and operational quality of each potential reinsurer. In placing reinsurance, the Company considers the nature of the risk reinsured, including the expected liability payout duration, and establishes limits tiered by reinsurer credit rating.
Where its contracts permit, the Company secures future claim obligations with various forms of collateral or other credit enhancement, including irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts, funds held accounts and group wide offsets. As part of its reinsurance recoverable review, the Company analyzes recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and cedants, recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers and the overall credit quality of the Company’s reinsurers.
Due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance recoverables become due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarter or annual period.
The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance comprises an ACL and an allowance for disputed balances. The ACL is estimated as the amount of reinsurance recoverables exposed to loss multiplied by estimated factors for the probability of default and the amount of loss given a default. The probability of default is assigned based on each reinsurer's credit rating, or a rating is estimated if no external rating is available. Credit ratings are reviewed on a quarterly basis and any significant changes are reflected in an updated estimate. The probability of default factors are historical insurer and reinsurer defaults for liabilities

with similar durations to the reinsured liabilities as estimated through multiple economic cycles. Credit ratings are forward-looking and consider a variety of economic outcomes. The loss given default factors are based on a study of historical recovery rates for general creditors of corporations through multiple economic cycles or, in the case of purchased annuities funding structured settlements accounted for as reinsurance, historical recovery rates for annuity contract holders.
As shown in the table above, a portion of the total gross reinsurance recoverable balance relates to the Company’s participation in various mandatory (assigned) and voluntary risk pools. Reinsurance recoverables due from pools are backed by the financial position of all insurance companies participating in the pools and the credit backing the reinsurance recoverable is not limited to the financial strength of each pool. The mandatory pools generally are funded through policy assessments or surcharges and if any participant in the pool defaults, remaining liabilities are apportioned among the other members.
The Company's evaluation of the required ACL for reinsurance recoverables considers the current economic environment as well as macroeconomic scenarios similar to the approach used to estimate the ACL for mortgage loans. See Note 6 - Investments. Insurance companies, including reinsurers, are regulated and hold risk-based capital to mitigate the risk of loss due to economic factors and other risks. Non-U.S. reinsurers are either subject to a capital regime substantively equivalent to domestic insurers or we hold collateral to support collection of reinsurance recoverables. As a result, there is limited history of losses from insurer defaults. In response to significant economic stress experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, the Company increased the weight of both a moderate and severe recession in our estimate of the ACL for reinsurance recoverables. The Company expects the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to reinsurers to be somewhat mitigated by their regulated capital and liquidity positions.

172

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 9 - Reinsurance

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------- --------- ----- - -- - - ---
Allowance for Uncollectible Reinsurance
 For the year ended December 31, 2020
 Property and Casualty Group Benefits Corporate Total
Beginning allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 114 $ — $ — $ 114
Beginning allowance for disputed amounts 66 — — 66
Beginning ACL 48 — — 48
Cumulative effect of accounting change [1] — 1 1 2
Adjusted beginning ACL 48 1 1 50
Current period provision (release) 3 — 1 4

Current period gross recoveries 1 — — 1
Ending ACL 52 1 2 55
Ending allowance for disputed amounts 53 — — 53
Ending allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 105 $ 1 $ 2 $ 108

[1] Represents the adjustment to the ACL recorded on adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies
Insurance Revenues
Property and Casualty Insurance Revenue

---------------- -------------------------------- ------ ----- - ------ - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
Premiums Written 2020 2019 2018
Direct $ 12,537 $ 12,190 $ 10,784
Assumed 577 371 217
Ceded (1,209) (978) (593)
Net $ 11,905 $ 11,583 $ 10,408
Premiums Earned
Direct $ 12,551 $ 12,010 $ 10,824
Assumed 540 416 221
Ceded (1,173) (936) (599)
Net $ 11,918 $ 11,490 $ 10,446

Group Benefits Revenue

---------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Gross earned premiums, fees and other considerations $ 5,245 $ 4,122 $ 3,615
Reinsurance assumed 387 1,572 2,044
Reinsurance ceded (96) (91) (61)
Net earned premiums, fees and other considerations $ 5,536 $ 5,603 $ 5,598

For its group benefits products, the Company reinsures certain of its risks to other reinsurers under yearly renewable term and coinsurance arrangements and variations thereto. Yearly renewable term and coinsurance arrangements result in passing a

portion of the risk to the reinsurer. Generally, the reinsurer receives a proportionate amount of the premiums less an allowance for commissions and expenses and is liable for a corresponding proportionate amount of all benefit payments.

173

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 10 - Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
10. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS
Changes in DAC

------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ------- - ------- - ---
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Balance, beginning of period $ 785 $ 670 $ 650
Deferred costs 1,666 1,635 1,404
Amortization — DAC (1,706) (1,622) (1,384)
Add back amortization of value of business acquired [1] 47 102 —

DAC transferred to assets held for sale (3) — —
Balance, end of period $ 789 $ 785 $ 670

[1] While the value of in-force contracts acquired from the Navigators Group acquisition is included in other intangible assets, the amortization of that asset is recorded as DAC amortization.

11. GOODWILL & OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill Carrying Value as of December 31, 2020

------------------------------------ ---------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ------------- ----- - --- - - --- - --- - -----
 Commercial Lines Personal Lines Hartford Funds Group Benefits Corporate [1] Total
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ 38 $ 119 $ 180 $ 723 $ 230 $ 1,290
Goodwill related to acquisitions [2] 623 — — — — 623

Balance at December 31, 2019 $ 661 $ 119 $ 180 $ 723 $ 230 $ 1,913
Measurement period adjustments [2] (2) — — — — (2)

Balance at December 31, 2020 $ 659 $ 119 $ 180 $ 723 $ 230 $ 1,911

[1]The Corporate category includes goodwill that was acquired at a holding company level and not pushed down to a subsidiary within a reportable segment. Carrying value of goodwill within Corporate as of December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 includes $138 and $92 for the Group Benefits and Hartford Funds reporting units, respectively.
[2] For further discussion on goodwill related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .

The annual goodwill assessment for The Hartford's reporting units was completed as of October 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, which resulted in no write-downs of goodwill in the respective

years then ended. In 2020, all reporting units passed their annual impairment test with a significant margin.

174

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 11 - Goodwill & Other Intangible Assets

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Other Intangible Assets

------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------ ----------------------- - --------------------- ------------------------ ------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
 As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019
 Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount
Amortized Intangible Assets:
Value of in-force contracts [1] $ 203 $ (172) $ 31 $ 203 $ (125) $ 78
Customer relationships 636 (134) 502 636 (92) 544
Marketing agreement with Aetna 16 (3) 13 16 (2) 14
Distribution Agreement [2] 79 (65) 14 79 (61) 18
Distribution and Agency relationships & Other [3] 340 (45) 295 340 (19) 321
Total Finite Life Intangibles 1,274 (419) 855 1,274 (299) 975
Total Indefinite Life Intangible Assets [4] 95 — 95 95 — 95
Total Other Intangible Assets $ 1,369 $ (419) $ 950 $ 1,369 $ (299) $ 1,070

[1]On May 23, 2019, the Company acquired Navigators Group and recorded a value of in-force-contracts intangible asset of $180 which will be amortized over 3 years. For further discussion on the value of in-force-contracts related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .
[2]On May 28, 2020, the Company amended its distribution agreement to, among other changes in terms, extend the agreement. As a result of this extension in term, The Hartford reassessed the useful life of the distribution agreement to amortize over a remaining life of approximately 6.5 years.
[3]On May 23, 2019, the Company acquired Navigators Group and recorded other intangible assets of $302 for distribution relationships and $17 for the trade name. The distribution relationships and trade name will be amortized over 15 years and 10 years, respectively. For further discussion on the value of distribution relationships and trade name related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .
[4]On May 23, 2019, the Company acquired Navigators Group and recorded an indefinite life intangible asset of $66 related to the capacity to write business through its Lloyd's Syndicate and recorded an indefinite life intangible of $15 for licenses . For further discussion on the indefinite life intangible assets related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .

Expected Pre-tax Amortization Expense [1] for Acquired Intangibles as of December 31, 2020

---- --------------------------- ----------------------- - --
 Value of In-force Contracts Other Intangible Assets
2021 $ 21 $ 71
2022 $ 10 $ 70
2023 $ — $ 70
2024 $ — $ 70
2025 $ — $ 70

[1]In the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the amortization of value of in-force contracts is reported in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and the amortization of other intangible assets is reported in amortization of other intangible assets.

175

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
12. RESERVE FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
Property and Casualty Insurance Products
Rollforward of Liabilities for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ------ ------- - ------- - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, gross $ 28,261 $ 24,584 $ 23,775
Reinsurance and other recoverables 5,275 4,232 3,957
Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net 22,986 20,352 19,818
Navigators Group acquisition — 2,001 —
Provision for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
Current accident year 7,794 7,463 7,107
Prior accident year development [1] (136) (65) (167)
Total provision for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses 7,658 7,398 6,940
Change in deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance included in other liabilities [1] (312) (16) —
Payments
Current accident year (2,214) (2,374) (2,452)
Prior accident years (4,190) (4,374) (3,954)
Total payments (6,404) (6,748) (6,406)
Net reserves transferred to liabilities held for sale (45) — —
Foreign currency adjustment 14 (1) —
Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net 23,897 22,986 20,352
Reinsurance and other recoverables 5,725 5,275 4,232
Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, gross $ 29,622 $ 28,261 $ 24,584

[1]Prior accident year development does not include the benefit of a portion of losses ceded under the Navigators and A&E ADC which, under retroactive reinsurance accounting, is deferred and is recognized over the period the ceded losses are recovered in cash from NICO. For additional information regarding the two adverse development cover reinsurance agreements, refer to Adverse Development Covers discussion below.
Property and Casualty Insurance Products Reserves, Net of Reinsurance, that are Discounted

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ----- ---- - ----- ----- - ---- - - ----- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, at undiscounted amounts $ 1,334 $ 1,331 $ 1,331
Amount of discount 367 388 388
Carrying value of liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses $ 967 $ 943 $ 943
Discount accretion included in losses and loss adjustment expenses $ 36 $ 33 $ 40
Weighted average discount rate 2.68 % 2.91 % 2.98 %
Range of discount rates 0.83 % - 14.03 % 1.76 % - 14.03 % 1.77 % - 14.15 %

Reserves are discounted at rates in effect at the time claims were incurred, ranging from 0.83% for accident year 2020 to 14.03% for accident year 1981.
The reserves recorded for the Company’s property and casualty insurance products at December 31, 2020 represent the Company’s best estimate of its ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses related to losses covered by policies written by the Company. However, because of the significant uncertainties surrounding reserves it is possible that management’s estimate of the ultimate liabilities for these claims

may change and that the required adjustment to recorded reserves could exceed the currently recorded reserves by an amount that could be material to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows.
Losses and loss adjustment expenses are also impacted by trends including frequency and severity as well as changes in the legislative and regulatory environment. In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty in the ultimate settlement of the liabilities gross of reinsurance include inadequate loss development

176

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

patterns, plaintiffs’ expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures before reinsurance, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty in gross reserves include expanding theories of liabilities and damages, the risks inherent in major litigation, inconsistent decisions concerning the existence and scope of coverage for environmental claims, and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured.
(Favorable) Unfavorable Prior Accident Year Development

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ---- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Workers’ compensation $ (110) $ (120) $ (164)

Workers’ compensation discount accretion 35 33 40
General liability 237 61 52
Marine 3 8 —
Package business (58) (47) (26)
Commercial property (4) (11) (12)
Professional liability (14) 29 (12)
Bond (19) (3) 2
Assumed reinsurance (6) 3 —
Automobile liability - Commercial Lines 27 27 (15)
Automobile liability - Personal Lines (61) (38) (18)
Homeowners 7 3 (25)
Net asbestos reserves (2) — —
Net environmental reserves — — —

Catastrophes (529) (42) (49)
Uncollectible reinsurance (8) (30) 22
Other reserve re-estimates, net 54 46 38

Prior accident year development, including full benefit for the ADC cession (448) (81) (167)
Change in deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance included in other liabilities [1] 312 16 —
Total prior accident year development $ (136) $ (65) $ (167)

[1] The change in deferred gain for the year ended December 31, 2020 included $210 of adverse development on A&E reserves in excess of ceded premium paid and included $102 of adverse development on Navigators 2018 and prior accident year reserves, within professional liability, marine, general liability, prior accident year catastrophes, and assumed reinsurance.
2020 re-estimates of prior accident year reserves
Workers’ compensation reserves were reduced on national account business within middle & large commercial, driven by lower than previously estimated claim severity for the 2015 and prior accident years, including on captives business, and were reduced in small commercial due to lower than expected claim severity for the 2013 to 2018 accident years.
General liability reserves were increased primarily due to a $254 increase in reserves for sexual molestation and sexual

abuse claims related to cases brought against religious and other organizations that were insureds of the Company, partly offset by a decrease in reserves for other mass torts and extra contractual liability claims. The sexual molestation and sexual abuse exposures may involve potentially long latency periods and may implicate coverage in multiple policy periods, which can raise complex coverage issues with significant effects on the ultimate scope of coverage. This increase in reserves reflects an increase in claim incidence largely due to reviver statutes, which is legislation passed in a number of states that provides an opportunity for claimants to file claims for a period of time despite the fact that the original statute of limitations had expired. The reserve increase in 2020 was principally from claims asserted against the Boy Scouts of America (“Boy Scouts”). The reserve increase for Boy Scouts was partially driven by the impact of claim filings on and around the November 16, 2020 deadline to file claims in the Boy Scouts’ Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Various subsidiaries of the Company issued primary, umbrella and excess general liability policies to the Boy Scouts for various policies periods between 1971 and 1983, including seven years of primary coverage from 1971 through 1977. However, it is the Company’s position that the 1976 and 1977 primary policy years were fully released and all the Company’s obligations extinguished by virtue of a prior settlement agreement with Boy Scouts. Further, the Company disputes the extent of its obligations to Boy Scouts and the validity of certain claims filed against Boy Scouts in the bankruptcy. As such, there are significant uncertainties regarding the ultimate number and severity of the claims against Boy Scouts, the potential for additional reviver activity, and the inherent risks associated with legal determinations to be made by the bankruptcy court and in coverage litigation.
In addition, general liability reserve increases on construction account business were largely offset by decreases in ULAE reserves. Reserves were increased for guaranteed cost construction business for accident years 2014 to 2019 as incurred losses are developing higher than previously expected for premises and operations claims and product liability claims, partly due to a change in industry mix and a heavier concentration of losses in California than initially assumed, as well as increased reserves for middle market and complex liability claims for accident year 2018 largely due to higher than expected severity. Also contributing were increases in reserves on primary layer construction account business within global specialty, mainly related to accident years 2015 to 2017, which is included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Marine reserves were increased principally due to an increase in domestic marine liability, mostly in accident years 2017 and 2018 due to a higher number of large losses. The increase in marine reserves is included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Package business reserves decreased for accident years 2014 to 2017 largely due to lower estimates of allocated loss adjustment expenses.
Commercial property reserves were decreased for accident year 2019 due to favorable developments on marine and middle market property claims.

177

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Professional liability reserves were decreased primarily due to lower estimated severity on non-security class action D&O claims and fewer than expected E&O claims with financial institutions for the 2011 to 2018 accident years, partially offset by an increase in D&O reserves for the 2019 accident year driven by higher frequency of class action lawsuits and an increase in large Syndicate D&O losses for the 2016 and 2017 accident years. These Syndicate reserve increases within global specialty are included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Bond reserves were reduced within contract surety driven by both favorable loss development on the 2015 to 2017 accident years and higher than expected loss recoveries on older accident years
Assumed reinsurance reserves were increased for accident year 2018 mostly due to higher accident and health reserve estimates for medical professionals on assumed casualty business. These reserve increases are included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Automobile liability reserves were decreased in Personal Lines principally due to lower than previously expected AARP Direct automobile liability claim severity for the 2017 to 2019 accident years. Automobile liability reserves were increased in Commercial Lines primarily due to higher than expected large losses within middle & large commercial, predominantly within the 2015 to 2019 accident years.
Catastrophes reserves were reduced, primarily due to a reduction in estimated reserves for 2017 and 2018 California wildfires and a reduction in estimated catastrophes for wind and hail events in the 2017 to 2019 accident years, partially offset by an increase in reserves for 2019 typhoons Hagibis and Faxai in Asia. The reduction in reserves for the 2017 and 2018 wildfires was largely due to recognizing a $289 subrogation benefit in the second quarter of 2020 from PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (together, “PG&E”) as well as a reduction in gross estimated losses on those wildfires.
In December, 2019, the judge overseeing the bankruptcy of PG&E approved an $11 billion settlement of insurance subrogation claims to resolve all such claims arising from the 2017 Northern California wildfires and 2018 Camp wildfire. That settlement was contingent upon, among other things, the judge entering an order confirming PG&E’s chapter 11 bankruptcy plan (“PG&E Plan”) incorporating the settlement agreement. On June 20, 2020, the bankruptcy court judge approved the PG&E Plan and PG&E subsequently transferred the $11 billion settlement amount to a trust designed to allocate and distribute the settlement among subrogation holders, including certain of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. In the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded an estimated $289 subrogation benefit though the ultimate amount it collects will depend on how the Company’s ultimate paid claims subject to subrogation compare to other insurers’ ultimate paid claims subject to subrogation.
Uncollectible reinsurance reserves were reduced due to higher than expected recoveries from reinsurers in older accident years.

Asbestos and environmental reserves were reviewed in fourth quarter 2020 resulting in a $218 increase in reserves before ADC reinsurance, including $127 for asbestos and $91 for environmental. Of the $218 increase in A&E reserves, the Company ceded $220 to the A&E ADC resulting in a net reserve release of $2. Of the $220 of adverse development ceded to the A&E ADC, the Company recognized a $210 deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance, representing the amount of losses ceded to the ADC in excess of ceded premium paid. For additional information related to the adverse development cover with NICO, see the Adverse Development Covers section below and Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies.
Other reserve re-estimates, net, primarily represents an increase in unallocated loss adjustment expense ('ULAE") reserves in Property & Casualty Other Operations that was largely driven by an increase in gross asbestos and environmental reserves.
2019 re-estimates of prior accident year reserves
Workers’ compensation reserves were reduced, principally in small commercial driven by lower than previously estimated claim severity for the 2014 through 2017 accident years and, to a lesser extent, in national accounts due to lower estimated claim severity, primarily for accident years 2013 and prior.
General liability reserves were increased, primarily due to reserve increases in small commercial for accident years 2017 and 2018 due to higher frequency of high-severity bodily injury claims, reserve increases in middle & large commercial for accident years 2015 to 2018 due to higher estimated severity, as well as increased estimated severity on the acquired Navigators Group book of business related to U.S. construction, premises liability, products liability and excess casualty, mostly related to accident years 2014 to 2017. In addition, an increase in reserves for mass torts for 2009 and prior accident years was offset by a decrease in reserves for extra contractual liability claims for more recent accident years, including the 2018 accident year.
Marine reserves were increased, principally related to pollution exposure from the 1980s and 1990s related to the Navigators Group book of business.
Package business reserves were decreased, primarily due to favorable emergence on property claims related to accident years 2016 through 2018 and due to favorable development of loss adjustment expenses on general liability claims for 2017 and prior accident years.
Commercial property reserves were decreased, principally due to favorable emergence of reported losses, including on the acquired Navigators Group book of business, related to offshore energy in accident years 2017 to 2018 and construction engineering across accident years 2015 to 2018.
Professional liability reserves were increased, primarily due to increased securities litigation and large loss activity, including wrongful termination and discrimination claims, related to accident years 2017 and 2018 and increased estimated frequency and severity of directors’ and officers’ reserves on the Navigators Group book of business, principally

178

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

for the 2014 to 2018 accident years. Partially offsetting the increase was a decrease in average severity on public company directors’ and officers’ claim reserves and errors and omissions claim reserves for accident years 2014 and prior.
Automobile liability reserves were decreased in Personal Lines and increased in Commercial Lines. The decrease in Personal Lines was due to the emergence of lower estimated severity in automobile liability for accident year 2017. The increase in Commercial Lines was due to higher estimated severity on national accounts, principally in accident years 2017 and 2018, and higher estimated severity for accident year 2018 in small commercial and middle market, partially offset by lower estimated severity for 2017 and prior accident years in small commercial and middle market.
Catastrophes reserves were reduced, primarily as a result of lower estimated net losses from 2017 hurricanes Harvey and Irma and the 2017 California wildfires. While gross loss reserve estimates for the 2018 California wildfires were also reduced, this was largely offset by a reduction in reinsurance recoverables resulting in very little change to estimated net losses from those wildfires.
Uncollectible reinsurance reserves were reduced due to higher than expected recoveries from reinsurers in older accident years.
Other reserve re-estimates, net, primarily represents an increase in unallocated loss adjustment expense ('ULAE") reserves in Property & Casualty Other Operations that was driven by an increase in gross asbestos and environmental reserves, as well as higher than anticipated ULAE costs in recent years, prompting an increase in the projected ULAE run rate.
2018 re-estimates of prior accident year reserves
Workers’ compensation reserves were reduced in small commercial and middle market, primarily for accident years 2014 and 2015, as claim severity has emerged favorably compared to previous reserve estimates. Also contributing was a reduction in estimated reserves for ULAE.
General liability reserves were increased, primarily due to an increase in reserves for higher hazard general liability exposures in middle market for accident years 2009 to 2017, partially offset by a decrease in reserves for other lines within middle market, including premises and operations, umbrella and products liability, principally for accident years 2015 and prior. Contributing to the increase in reserves for higher hazard general liability exposures was an increase in average claim severity, including from large losses and, in more recent accident years, an increase in claim frequency. Contributing to the reduction in reserves for other middle market lines were more favorable outcomes due to initiatives to reduce legal expenses. In addition, reserve increases for claims with lead paint exposure were offset by reserve decreases for other mass torts and extra-contractual liability claims.
Package business reserves were reduced, primarily due to lower reserve estimates for both liability and property for accident years 2010 and prior, including a recovery of loss adjustment expenses for the 2005 accident year.

Commercial property reserves were reduced, driven by an increase in estimated reinsurance recoverables on middle market property losses from the 2017 accident year.
Professional liability reserves were reduced, principally for accident years 2014 and prior, for directors and officers liability claims principally due to a number of older claims closing with limited or no payment.
Automobile liability reserves were reduced, primarily driven by reduced estimates of loss adjustment expenses in small commercial for recent accident years and favorable development in personal automobile liability for accident years 2014 to 2017, principally due to lower severity, including with uninsured and underinsured motorist claims.
Homeowners reserves were reduced, primarily in accident years 2013 to 2017, driven by lower than expected severity across multiple perils.
Asbestos and environmental reserves were unchanged as $238 of adverse development arising from the fourth quarter 2018 comprehensive annual review was offset by a $238 recoverable from NICO. For additional information related to the adverse development cover with NICO, see the Adverse Development Covers section below and Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies.
Catastrophe reserves were reduced, primarily as a result of lower estimated net losses from 2017 catastrophes, principally related to hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Before reinsurance, estimated losses for 2017 catastrophe events decreased by $133, resulting in a decrease in reinsurance recoverables of $90 as the Company no longer expects to recover under the 2017 Property Aggregate reinsurance treaty as aggregate ultimate losses for 2017 catastrophe events are now projected to be less than $850.
Uncollectible reinsurance reserves were increased due to lower anticipated recoveries related to older accident years.
Other reserve re-estimates, net, primarily represents an increase in ULAE reserves in Property & Casualty Other Operations that was principally driven by an increase in expected claim handling costs associated with asbestos and environmental and mass tort claims.

179

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Adverse Development Covers
The Company has an adverse development cover reinsurance agreement with NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., to reinsure loss development after 2016 on substantially all of the Company’s asbestos and environmental reserves (the “A&E ADC”). Under the A&E ADC, the Company paid a reinsurance premium of $650 for NICO to assume adverse net loss reserve development up to $1.5 billion above the Company’s existing net A&E reserves as of December 31, 2016 of approximately $1.7 billion including reserves for A&E exposure for accident years prior to 1986 that are reported in Property & Casualty Other Operations ("Run-off A&E") and reserves for A&E exposure for accident years 1986 and subsequent from policies underwritten prior to 2016 that are reported in ongoing Commercial Lines and Personal Lines. The $650 reinsurance premium was placed into a collateral trust account as security for NICO’s claim payment obligations to the Company. The Company has retained the risk of collection on amounts due from other third-party reinsurers and continues to be responsible for claims handling and other administrative services, subject to certain conditions. The A&E ADC covers substantially all the Company’s A&E reserve development up to the reinsurance limit.
Under retroactive reinsurance accounting, net adverse A&E reserve development after December 31, 2016 will result in an offsetting reinsurance recoverable up to the $1.5 billion limit. Cumulative ceded losses up to the $650 reinsurance premium paid have been recognized as a dollar-for-dollar offset to direct losses incurred. Cumulative ceded losses exceeding the $650 reinsurance premium paid result in a deferred gain. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has incurred $860 in cumulative adverse development on asbestos and environmental reserves that have been ceded under the A&E ADC treaty with NICO with $640 of available limit remaining under the A&E ADC. As a result, the Company has recorded a $210 deferred gain

within other liabilities, representing the difference between the reinsurance recoverable of $860 and ceded premium paid of $650. The deferred gain is recognized over the claim settlement period in the proportion of the amount of cumulative ceded losses collected from the reinsurer to the estimated ultimate reinsurance recoveries. Consequently, until periods when the deferred gain is recognized as a benefit to earnings, cumulative adverse development of asbestos and environmental claims will result in charges against earnings, which may be significant. Immediately after closing on the acquisition of Navigators Group, effective May 23, 2019, the Company purchased the Navigators ADC, an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement covering adverse reserve development, from NICO on behalf of Navigators Insurers. Under the Navigators ADC, the Navigators and allocated loss adjustment reserves as of December 31, 2018 subject to the treaty of $1.816 billion for accidents and losses prior to December 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company has recorded a reinsurance recoverable under the Navigators ADC of $209 as estimated cumulative loss development on the 2018 and prior accident year reserves of $309 exceed the $100 deductible. While the reinsurance recoverable is $209, the Company has also recorded a $118 cumulative deferred gain within other liabilities since, under retroactive reinsurance accounting, ceded losses in excess of the $91 of ceded premium paid must be recognized as a deferred gain. Of the $118 of cumulative ceded losses in excess of ceded premium paid, $102 was recognized as a deferred gain in 2020 and $16 was recognized as a deferred gain in 2019. As the Company has ceded $209 of the $300 available limit, there is $91 of remaining limit available as of December 31, 2020.

180

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Reconciliation of Loss Development to Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses As of December 31, 2020

------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- ------ --------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -------- -------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- --- --- ----- - ----- ----- - ------ - ----- - ------
 Losses and Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Subtotal
Reserve Line Cumulative Incurred for Accident Years Displayed in Triangles Cumulative Paid for Accident Years Displayed in Triangles Unpaid for Accident Years not Displayed in Triangles Unpaid Unallocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Discount Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Reinsurance and Other Recoverables Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses
Workers' compensation $ 18,864 $ (10,633) $ 2,671 $ 336 $ (352) $ 10,886 $ 1,970 $ 12,856
General liability 6,201 (2,946) 713 137 — 4,105 740 4,845
Marine 1,379 (1,128) 18 10 — 279 216 495
Package business 6,940 (5,248) 66 94 — 1,852 17 1,869
Commercial property 3,365 (2,936) 28 18 — 475 221 696
Commercial automobile liability 3,804 (2,775) 16 21 — 1,066 78 1,144
Commercial automobile physical damage 176 (167) 4 — — 13 (1) 12
Professional liability 2,164 (1,080) 65 35 — 1,184 689 1,873
Bond 635 (310) 28 28 — 381 13 394
Assumed Reinsurance 1,198 (986) 3 3 — 218 41 259
Personal automobile liability 11,463 (10,153) 29 60 — 1,399 28 1,427
Personal automobile physical damage 1,279 (1,262) 5 3 — 25 — 25
Homeowners 6,770 (6,435) 6 31 — 372 3 375
Other ongoing business 208 (2) (15) 191 294 485
Asbestos and environmental [1] 938 — — 938 1,429 2,367
Other operations [1] 349 164 — 513 (13) 500
Total P&C $ 64,238 $ (46,059) $ 5,147 $ 938 $ (367) $ 23,897 $ 5,725 $ 29,622

[1]Asbestos and environmental and other operations include asbestos, environmental and other latent exposures not foreseen when coverages were written, including, but not limited to, potential liability for pharmaceutical products, silica, talcum powder, head injuries, lead paint, construction defects, sexual molestation and sexual abuse and other long-tail liabilities. These reserve lines do not have significant paid or incurred loss development for the most recent ten accident years and therefore do not have loss development displayed in triangles.

The reserve lines in the above table and the loss triangles that follow represent the significant lines of business for which the Company regularly reviews the appropriateness of reserve levels. These reserve lines differ from the reserve lines reported on a statutory basis, as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). The cumulative incurred losses displayed in the above table include the full reinsurance benefit of ceding $209 of losses to the Navigators ADC even though $118 of that benefit has been recorded as a deferred gain within other liabilities and recognized as a charge to earnings within incurred loss and loss adjustment expenses included in the consolidated statement of operations. The $209 of Navigators Insurers losses ceded to the Navigators ADC included in the following triangles $53 for general liability, $53 for professional liability, $24 for assumed reinsurance, $12 for commercial automobile, $38 for marine and $5 for commercial property and included $24 for older accident years and lines of business that are not in the following triangles.
The following loss triangles present historical loss development for incurred and paid claims by accident year, including loss development on Navigators Insurers reserves prior to and after the May 23, 2019 acquisition date. Because the loss triangles include pre-acquisition date changes in ultimate incurred loss

estimates for Navigators Insurers’ reserves, changes in reserve development evident in the incurred loss triangles may differ from prior accident year development recorded by the Company as shown in the (Favorable) Unfavorable Prior Accident Year Development table above as that only includes changes in Navigators Insurers’ reserves post acquisition. In addition, the incurred loss triangles include reserve development on both catastrophe and non-catastrophe claims whereas the (Favorable) Unfavorable Prior Accident Year Development table above shows the total amount of catastrophe reserve development across all lines of business on a single line.
Triangles are limited to the number of years for which claims incurred typically remain outstanding, not exceeding ten years. Short-tail lines, which represent claims generally expected to be paid within a few years, have three years of claim development displayed. For marine, commercial property, professional liability and assumed reinsurance lines, the Company has provided nine years of claims development as data for earlier periods was not available for the Lloyds syndicate. IBNR reserves shown in loss triangles include reserve for incurred but not reported claims as well as reserves for expected development on reported claims. Incurred and cumulative paid losses in currencies other than the

181

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

U.S. dollar have been converted into U.S. dollars using the exchange rates as of December 31, 2020.

Workers' Compensation

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------------ -------------- ----- ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 2,013 $ 2,099 $ 2,204 $ 2,206 $ 2,221 $ 2,224 $ 2,232 $ 2,242 $ 2,239 $ 2,235 $ 291 177,961
 2012 2,185 2,207 2,207 2,181 2,168 2,169 2,154 2,146 2,135 325 171,494
 2013 2,020 1,981 1,920 1,883 1,861 1,861 1,850 1,831 378 151,422
 2014 1,869 1,838 1,789 1,761 1,713 1,692 1,679 437 126,217
 2015 1,873 1,835 1,801 1,724 1,714 1,699 477 113,966
 2016 1,772 1,772 1,780 1,767 1,748 574 112,058
 2017 1,862 1,869 1,840 1,822 753 111,510
 2018 1,916 1,917 1,915 854 117,999
 2019 1,937 1,935 1,033 117,698
 2020 1,865 1,412 84,062
Total $ 18,864

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 371 $ 841 $ 1,156 $ 1,368 $ 1,518 $ 1,622 $ 1,690 $ 1,746 $ 1,786 $ 1,811
 2012 359 809 1,106 1,313 1,436 1,529 1,587 1,644 1,678
 2013 304 675 917 1,071 1,175 1,260 1,304 1,339
 2014 275 598 811 960 1,041 1,099 1,137
 2015 261 576 778 909 1,004 1,068
 2016 255 579 779 908 1,003
 2017 261 575 778 900
 2018 283 624 837
 2019 291 637
 2020 223
Total $ 10,633

182

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
General Liability

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ --- - --- - --- - -- ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 431 $ 420 $ 408 $ 405 $ 404 $ 416 $ 417 $ 426 $ 420 $ 416 $ 40 22,394
 2012 423 402 399 392 410 408 421 413 407 50 16,597
 2013 455 442 456 484 488 502 505 508 62 13,867
 2014 506 475 481 494 513 522 515 78 14,722
 2015 556 560 554 594 633 647 110 15,382
 2016 613 583 607 633 632 176 16,479
 2017 626 614 613 616 258 15,943
 2018 692 669 697 395 16,881
 2019 821 826 638 15,191
 2020 937 850 9,265
Total $ 6,201

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 15 $ 61 $ 123 $ 200 $ 255 $ 303 $ 330 $ 348 $ 362 $ 368
 2012 13 55 101 170 233 280 305 323 332
 2013 13 53 141 233 320 372 398 422
 2014 15 42 130 214 304 358 402
 2015 10 55 156 278 409 477
 2016 12 52 131 283 368
 2017 15 67 156 255
 2018 21 83 177
 2019 29 100
 2020 45
Total $ 2,946

183

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Marine

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---------------- -------------- --- ----- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ----- ----- - --- - --- - - -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves [1] ClaimsReported
 2012 $ 195 $ 220 $ 180 $ 169 $ 163 $ 164 $ 168 $ 164 $ 164 $ 2 6,782
 2013 149 152 134 136 140 135 138 140 (3) 6,623
 2014 163 160 158 165 164 169 167 (3) 7,122
 2015 158 146 146 148 133 138 (5) 10,114
 2016 140 143 138 148 150 (7) 13,112
 2017 160 187 175 174 (12) 15,498
 2018 144 161 154 (12) 13,808
 2019 144 142 20 7,989
 2020 150 76 3,451
Total $ 1,379

[1]IBNR reserves are negative for some accident years as all losses ceded to the Navigators ADC are ceded as IBNR even though the gross losses being ceded include both reported losses and IBNR components. In addition, the collection of subrogation lags payment of the losses.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2012 $ 51 $ 101 $ 125 $ 139 $ 148 $ 152 $ 155 $ 159 $ 158
 2013 42 82 100 112 119 121 126 133
 2014 41 81 116 131 151 156 159
 2015 40 85 116 126 134 139
 2016 35 80 106 122 132
 2017 48 111 142 154
 2018 37 104 138
 2019 36 83
 2020 32
Total $ 1,128

184

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Package Business

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ --- - --- - --- - -- ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 810 $ 792 $ 790 $ 800 $ 808 $ 814 $ 813 $ 812 $ 807 $ 807 $ 24 61,097
 2012 736 725 728 731 736 735 739 732 732 30 59,871
 2013 579 565 573 585 586 592 586 587 29 43,620
 2014 566 578 601 602 603 603 593 44 43,207
 2015 582 588 585 583 588 581 56 42,121
 2016 655 638 632 625 611 78 43,922
 2017 695 702 692 657 114 46,366
 2018 719 724 688 169 44,273
 2019 813 769 256 41,800
 2020 915 412 56,548
Total $ 6,940

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 377 $ 555 $ 621 $ 684 $ 727 $ 748 $ 762 $ 772 $ 774 $ 776
 2012 286 486 560 616 652 673 687 694 697
 2013 225 339 414 467 504 522 541 549
 2014 226 345 416 468 507 525 535
 2015 212 332 383 445 486 505
 2016 225 353 410 465 500
 2017 235 372 447 496
 2018 237 402 451
 2019 254 413
 2020 326
Total $ 5,248

185

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Commercial Property

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ - --- - --- - - ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported

 2012 $ 369 $ 333 $ 334 $ 335 $ 337 $ 335 $ 334 $ 333 $ 332 $ — 26,860
 2013 268 252 254 252 249 248 247 247 — 21,610
 2014 293 281 282 280 279 280 280 — 21,025
 2015 299 301 302 301 305 304 1 21,020
 2016 406 420 399 406 408 1 23,758
 2017 577 516 455 438 6 24,332
 2018 450 437 424 26 21,630
 2019 476 437 21 20,791
 2020 495 162 18,628
Total $ 3,365

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

 2012 $ 182 $ 296 $ 317 $ 326 $ 331 $ 331 $ 331 $ 330 $ 330
 2013 161 223 238 243 242 244 245 245
 2014 170 250 270 279 279 279 280
 2015 179 257 285 296 302 303
 2016 215 342 378 396 401
 2017 229 379 412 428
 2018 188 344 379
 2019 214 349
 2020 221
Total $ 2,936

186

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Commercial Automobile Liability

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ --- - --- - --- - - ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 272 $ 310 $ 356 $ 356 $ 366 $ 365 $ 363 $ 362 $ 363 $ 363 $ 6 39,302
 2012 311 377 391 402 395 389 387 388 388 6 36,052
 2013 311 318 334 341 340 339 335 334 8 32,239
 2014 309 317 331 337 341 334 333 8 29,609
 2015 308 358 372 356 356 359 12 28,541
 2016 385 393 390 391 392 25 29,145
 2017 372 383 379 383 37 26,279
 2018 349 396 405 86 24,402
 2019 417 431 194 24,604
 2020 416 321 14,930
Total $ 3,804

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expense, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 63 $ 133 $ 211 $ 274 $ 316 $ 339 $ 348 $ 353 $ 354 $ 355
 2012 65 143 234 307 346 359 372 376 378
 2013 62 130 202 259 295 311 321 323
 2014 59 131 197 252 299 309 318
 2015 62 142 207 267 314 335
 2016 65 147 232 303 339
 2017 60 134 211 285
 2018 62 153 239
 2019 63 153
 2020 50
Total $ 2,775

187

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Commercial Automobile Physical Damage

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- - ------ ------ - - ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2018 $ 62 $ 62 $ 61 $ 1 20,561
 2019 63 64 1 19,828
 2020 51 2 13,796
Total $ 176

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- --- -- - --
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020
 2018 $ 54 $ 60 $ 60
 2019 56 62
 2020 45
Total $ 167

188

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Professional Liability

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - --- - --- - -- -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Claims Made Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported

 2012 $ 242 $ 238 $ 238 $ 218 $ 221 $ 221 $ 219 $ 225 $ 217 $ 11 7,036
 2013 207 195 187 174 174 173 171 171 22 5,972
 2014 187 183 181 178 179 182 183 26 6,717
 2015 164 174 179 190 214 207 40 7,215
 2016 183 176 203 197 196 53 8,345
 2017 205 203 232 226 63 9,362
 2018 248 281 277 101 9,913
 2019 298 317 196 9,297
 2020 370 325 6,236
Total $ 2,164

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Claims Made Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

 2012 $ 17 $ 67 $ 100 $ 139 $ 155 $ 168 $ 172 $ 175 $ 175
 2013 10 44 67 88 116 131 137 143
 2014 8 38 74 108 131 135 146
 2015 9 40 85 107 125 141
 2016 8 51 88 112 125
 2017 11 48 88 123
 2018 15 73 130
 2019 21 78
 2020 19
Total $ 1,080

189

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Bond

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- -- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -- - -- - -- - - -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 74 $ 78 $ 78 $ 76 $ 71 $ 71 $ 71 $ 71 $ 72 $ 71 $ 9 2,135
 2012 71 70 61 55 49 49 45 48 48 13 1,728
 2013 64 58 55 48 49 39 35 34 14 1,463
 2014 71 67 66 67 59 59 60 13 1,386
 2015 67 67 63 60 54 48 17 1,394
 2016 61 61 61 56 52 29 1,335
 2017 63 90 101 94 34 1,682
 2018 68 68 72 37 1,573
 2019 72 73 60 1,514
 2020 83 77 1,505
Total $ 635

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- - -- - --
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 12 $ 40 $ 52 $ 57 $ 58 $ 60 $ 60 $ 60 $ 61 $ 62
 2012 12 25 26 24 26 26 34 35 35
 2013 3 9 17 19 19 19 20 20
 2014 18 31 40 43 43 45 46
 2015 9 20 24 31 34 32
 2016 2 12 15 20 22
 2017 5 46 55 53
 2018 6 16 23
 2019 3 13
 2020 4
Total $ 310

190

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Assumed Reinsurance

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - --- - --- - - -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2012 $ 107 $ 99 $ 93 $ 88 $ 115 $ 120 $ 119 $ 120 $ 120 $ — 1,441
 2013 115 119 103 105 102 102 103 104 — 1,647
 2014 119 142 122 118 115 116 116 — 1,760
 2015 102 92 94 94 95 96 — 1,497
 2016 89 91 98 100 102 (1) 1,626
 2017 129 153 162 157 — 1,966
 2018 129 128 130 (14) 1,960
 2019 181 190 38 2,025
 2020 183 110 833
Total $ 1,198

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2012 $ 38 $ 77 $ 83 $ 85 $ 112 $ 118 $ 118 $ 119 $ 119
 2013 53 83 91 98 100 101 103 103
 2014 66 119 106 109 112 113 114
 2015 42 65 77 83 91 94
 2016 36 66 84 90 95
 2017 44 116 135 145
 2018 25 112 134
 2019 62 132
 2020 50
Total $ 986

191

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Personal Automobile Liability

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------------ -------------- ----- ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - - -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 1,181 $ 1,170 $ 1,180 $ 1,173 $ 1,166 $ 1,154 $ 1,154 $ 1,153 $ 1,153 $ 1,153 $ 4 221,891
 2012 1,141 1,149 1,146 1,142 1,133 1,130 1,130 1,130 1,129 5 210,757
 2013 1,131 1,145 1,144 1,153 1,152 1,153 1,157 1,156 7 205,480
 2014 1,146 1,153 1,198 1,200 1,199 1,202 1,201 8 209,013
 2015 1,195 1,340 1,338 1,330 1,331 1,328 15 216,871
 2016 1,407 1,402 1,393 1,397 1,395 28 215,797
 2017 1,277 1,275 1,228 1,214 50 187,408
 2018 1,108 1,104 1,072 105 155,821
 2019 1,018 1,010 220 138,430
 2020 805 400 90,933
Total $ 11,463

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 447 $ 826 $ 1,006 $ 1,088 $ 1,126 $ 1,140 $ 1,145 $ 1,146 $ 1,146 $ 1,148
 2012 441 818 986 1,067 1,104 1,114 1,120 1,122 1,123
 2013 442 816 1,002 1,091 1,121 1,135 1,142 1,144
 2014 430 843 1,032 1,125 1,165 1,182 1,186
 2015 475 935 1,142 1,243 1,292 1,304
 2016 505 968 1,188 1,308 1,345
 2017 441 836 1,033 1,123
 2018 359 710 888
 2019 323 654
 2020 238
Total $ 10,153

192

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Personal Automobile Physical Damage

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- - ------- ------- - - -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2018 $ 509 $ 498 $ 488 $ 1 305,389
 2019 445 442 — 276,688
 2020 349 (6) 199,623
Total $ 1,279

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ----- --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020
 2018 $ 474 $ 491 $ 488
 2019 427 441
 2020 333
Total $ 1,262

193

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Homeowners

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- --- - --- - --- - - -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 955 $ 920 $ 919 $ 916 $ 914 $ 911 $ 908 $ 907 $ 907 $ 907 $ — 179,405
 2012 774 741 741 741 739 738 738 738 737 — 142,855
 2013 673 638 637 634 632 630 629 630 1 113,546
 2014 710 707 702 700 698 698 698 — 121,914
 2015 690 703 690 684 684 684 1 119,981
 2016 669 673 663 658 658 2 119,742
 2017 866 889 884 783 6 124,581
 2018 903 910 673 (11) 102,603
 2019 501 475 27 83,915
 2020 525 89 82,246
Total $ 6,770

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 709 $ 871 $ 891 $ 899 $ 903 $ 905 $ 908 $ 907 $ 908 $ 907
 2012 547 696 719 727 731 734 735 736 736
 2013 467 590 611 622 626 627 628 628
 2014 526 663 684 691 695 697 697
 2015 487 645 665 674 680 681
 2016 481 621 640 649 653
 2017 538 747 795 757
 2018 484 712 616
 2019 318 425
 2020 335
Total $ 6,435

Property and casualty reserves, including IBNR reserves
The Company estimates ultimate losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses by accident year. IBNR represents the excess of estimated ultimate loss reserves over case reserves. The process to estimate ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses is an integral part of the Company's reserve setting. Reserves for allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expenses are generally established separate from the reserves for losses.
Reserves for losses are set by line of business within the reporting segments. Case reserves are established by a claims handler on each individual claim and are adjusted as new information becomes known during the course of handling the claim. Lines of business for which reported losses emerge over a long period of

time are referred to as long-tail lines of business. Lines of business for which reported losses emerge more quickly are referred to as short-tail lines of business. The Company’s shortest tail lines of business are homeowners, commercial property and automobile physical damage. The longest tail lines of business include workers’ compensation, general liability and professional liability. For short-tail lines of business, emergence of paid loss and case reserves is credible and likely indicative of ultimate losses. For long-tail lines of business, emergence of paid losses and case reserves is less credible in the early periods after a given accident year and, accordingly, may not be indicative of ultimate losses.
The Company’s reserving actuaries regularly review reserves for both current and prior accident years using the most current claim data. A variety of actuarial methods and judgments are used for most lines of business to arrive at selections of estimated

194

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses. The reserve selections incorporate input, as appropriate, from claims personnel, pricing actuaries and operating management about reported loss cost trends and other factors that could affect the reserve estimates.
For both short-tail and long-tail lines of business, an expected loss ratio is used to record initial reserves. This expected loss ratio is determined by starting with the average loss ratio of recent prior accident years and adjusting that ratio for the effect of expected changes to earned pricing, loss frequency and severity, mix of business, ceded reinsurance and other factors. For short-tail lines, IBNR for the current accident year is initially recorded as the product of the expected loss ratio for the period, earned premium for the period and the proportion of losses expected to be reported in future calendar periods for the current accident period. For long-tailed lines, IBNR reserves for the current accident year are initially recorded as the product of the expected loss ratio for the period and the earned premium for the period, less reported losses for the period. For certain short-tailed lines of business, IBNR amounts in the above loss development triangles are negative due to anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries on paid losses.
As losses for a given accident year emerge or develop in subsequent periods, reserving actuaries use other methods to estimate ultimate unpaid losses in addition to the expected loss ratio method. These primarily include paid and reported loss development methods, frequency/severity techniques and the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method (a combination of the expected loss ratio and paid development or reported development method). Within any one line of business, the methods that are given more weight vary based primarily on the maturity of the accident year, the mix of business and the particular internal and external influences impacting the claims experience or the methods. The output of the reserve reviews are reserve estimates that are referred to as actuarial indications.
Paid development and reported development techniques are used for most lines of business though more weight is given to the reported development method for some of the long-tailed lines like general liability. In addition, for long-tailed lines of business, the Company relies on the expected loss ratio method for immature accident years. Frequency/severity techniques are used predominantly for professional liability and are also used for

automobile liability. The Berquist-Sherman technique is also used for automobile liability, marine and assumed reinsurance. For most lines, reserves for allocated loss adjustment expenses ("ALAE", or those expenses related to specific claims) are analyzed using paid development techniques and an analysis of the relationship between ALAE and loss payments. For most of the lines acquired through the Navigators Group book of business, loss and ALAE are reviewed on a combined basis. Reserves for ULAE are determined using the expected cost per claim year and the anticipated claim closure pattern as well as the ratio of paid ULAE to paid losses.
In the final step of the reserve review process, senior reserving actuaries and senior management apply their judgment to determine the appropriate level of reserves considering the actuarial indications and other factors not contemplated in the actuarial indications. Those factors include, but are not limited to, the assessed reliability of key loss trends and assumptions used in the current actuarial indications, the maturity of the accident year, pertinent trends observed over the recent past, the level of volatility within a particular line of business, and the improvement or deterioration of actuarial indications. The Company also considers the magnitude of the difference between the actuarial indication and the recorded reserves.
Cumulative number of reported claims
For most property and casualty lines, claim counts represent the number of claim features on a reported claim where a claim feature is each separate coverage for each claimant affected by the claim event. For example, one car accident that results in two bodily injury claims and one automobile damage liability claim would be counted as three claims within the personal automobile liability triangle. Similarly, a fire that impacts one commercial building may result in multiple claim features due to the potential for claims related to business interruption, structural damage, and loss of the physical contents of the building. Claim features that result in no paid losses are included in the reported claim counts. For some property and casualty lines, such as marine and assumed reinsurance, a claim count represents each reported claim regardless of the number of features. For assumed bordereau business and business written on binders, one claim count is posted for each bordereau received, which could account for multiple claims.

195

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------- ---- - --- - ---- -- ---- -- --- -
Average Annual Percentage Payout of Incurred Claims by Age, Net of Reinsurance
 (Unaudited)
Reserve Line 1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year 4th Year 5th Year 6th Year 7th Year 8th Year 9th Year 10th Year
Workers' compensation 15.2 % 19.1 % 12.4 % 8.3 % 5.7 % 4.2 % 2.6 % 2.3 % 1.7 % 1.1 %
General liability 2.9 % 8.2 % 14.6 % 18.4 % 16.2 % 10.9 % 6.6 % 4.5 % 2.8 % 1.5 %
Marine 26.1 % 32.4 % 18.4 % 8.4 % 7.0 % 2.8 % 2.2 % 3.9 % (0.5 %)
Package business 37.5 % 21.7 % 10.0 % 8.6 % 6.0 % 2.9 % 2.1 % 1.2 % 0.3 % 0.3 %
Commercial property 53.6 % 30.9 % 7.6 % 3.2 % 0.9 % 0.3 % 0.2 % (0.1 %) (0.1 %)
Commercial automobile liability 16.2 % 20.8 % 20.9 % 17.7 % 11.4 % 4.9 % 2.7 % 1.1 % 0.5 % 0.2 %
Commercial automobile physical damage 88.2 % 10.1 % (0.5 %)
Professional liability 5.4 % 19.0 % 18.2 % 14.5 % 10.4 % 6.3 % 3.9 % 2.0 % — %
Bond 12.7 % 24.3 % 11.7 % 4.9 % 2.4 % 0.1 % 5.3 % 1.2 % 0.1 % 2.1 %
Assumed Reinsurance 36.3 % 38.7 % 8.8 % 4.9 % 8.0 % 2.5 % 1.0 % 0.3 % (0.1 %)
Personal automobile liability 35.5 % 33.2 % 15.8 % 7.6 % 3.1 % 1.1 % 0.5 % 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 %
Personal automobile physical damage 96.5 % 3.2 % (0.7 %)
Homeowners 71.8 % 22.7 % 1.2 % 0.4 % 0.6 % 0.3 % 0.1 % 0.1 % — % — %

Group Life, Disability and Accident Products
Rollforward of Liabilities for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ------- - ------- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, gross $ 8,256 $ 8,445 $ 8,512
Reinsurance recoverables [1] 247 239 209
Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net 8,009 8,206 8,303
Aetna U.S. group life and disability business acquisition [2] — — 42
Provision for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
Current incurral year 4,511 4,385 4,470
Prior year's discount accretion 209 219 227
Prior incurral year development [3] (445) (410) (324)
Total provision for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses [4] 4,275 4,194 4,373
Payments
Current incurral year (2,288) (2,277) (2,377)
Prior incurral years (2,000) (2,114) (2,135)
Total payments (4,288) (4,391) (4,512)
Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net 7,996 8,009 8,206
Reinsurance recoverables 237 247 239
Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, gross $ 8,233 $ 8,256 $ 8,445

[1] Includes a cumulative effect adjustment of $(1) representing an adjustment to the ACL recorded on adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. See Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[2]Amount recognized in 2018 represents an adjustment to Aetna U.S. group life and disability business reserves, net of reinsurance as of the acquisition date, upon finalization of the opening balance sheet.
[3]Prior incurral year development represents the change in estimated ultimate incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses for prior incurral years on a discounted basis.
[4]Includes unallocated loss adjustment expenses of $178, $178 and $194 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, that are recorded in insurance operating costs and other expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

196

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Group Life, Disability and Accident Products Reserves, Net of Reinsurance, that are Discounted

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ------- --- ------- --- - ----- --- - --- - - --- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, at undiscounted amounts $ 8,380 $ 8,636 $ 8,957
Amount of discount (1,353) (1,401) (1,505)
Carrying value of liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses $ 7,027 $ 7,235 $ 7,452
Weighted average discount rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 %
Range of discount rate 2.1 % - 8.0 % 2.1 % - 8.0 % 2.1 % - 8.0 %

Reserves are discounted at rates in effect at the time claims were incurred, ranging from 2.1% for life and disability reserves acquired from Aetna based on interest rates in effect at the acquisition date of November 1, 2017, to 8.0% for the Company’s pre-acquisition reserves for incurral year 1990, and vary by product. Prior year's discount accretion has been calculated as the average reserve balance for the year times the weighted average discount rate.
2020 re-estimates of prior incurral year reserves
Group disability- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $365 largely driven by group long-term disability lower claim incidence and higher recoveries on prior incurral year claims, and a refund on the New York Paid Family Leave program.
Group life and accident (including group life premium waiver)- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $65 largely driven by lower-than-previously expected claim incidence in group life premium waiver.
Supplemental Accident & Health- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $15 driven by lower-than-expected emergence of prior year claims, especially for voluntary critical Illness and voluntary accident products.

2019 re-estimates of prior incurral year reserves
Group disability- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $340 largely driven by group long-term disability claim incidence lower than prior assumptions and strong recoveries on prior incurral year claims, including the impact of updating long-term disability ("LTD") recovery probabilities to be based on more recent experience. New York Paid Family Leave also experienced favorable claim emergence including an experience refund.
Group life and accident (including group life premium waiver)- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $60 largely driven by lower-than-previously expected claim incidence in group life premium waiver.
2018 re-estimates of prior incurral year reserves
Group disability- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $230 largely driven by group long-term disability claim recoveries higher than prior reserve assumptions and, primarily for the 2017 incurral year, claim incidence lower than prior assumptions. Short-term disability also experienced favorable claim recoveries.
Group life and accident (including group life premium waiver)- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $90 largely driven by lower-than-previously expected claim incidence inclusive of group life, group life premium waiver, and group accidental death & dismemberment, principally for the 2017 incurral year.

197

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
 Reconciliation of Loss Development to Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses as of December 31, 2020

------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -------- -------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- ---- - --- --- ------- --- - ----- - --- - -----
 Losses and Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Subtotal
Reserve Line Cumulative Incurred for Incurral Years Displayed in Triangles Cumulative Paid for Incurral Years Displayed in Triangles Unpaid for Incurral Years not Displayed in Triangles Unpaid Adjustment Expenses
Group long-term disability $ 14,411 $ (8,420) $ 1,554 $ 182 $ (1,233) $ 6,494 $ 227 $ 6,721
Group life and accident, excluding premium waiver 5,888 (5,283) 163 4 (17) 755 3 758
Group short-term disability 117 4 — 121 — 121
Group life premium waiver 688 10 (103) 595 2 597
Group supplemental health 31 — — 31 5 36
Total Group Benefits $ 20,299 $ (13,703) $ 2,553 $ 200 $ (1,353) $ 7,996 $ 237 $ 8,233

The following loss triangles present historical loss development for incurred and paid claims by the year the insured claim occurred, referred to as the incurral year. Triangles are limited to the number of years for which claims incurred typically remain

outstanding, not exceeding ten years. Short-tail lines, which represent claims generally expected to be paid within a few years, have three years of claim development displayed.
Group Long-Term Disability

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------------ -------------- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ----- - ----- - ----- - - ------
Undiscounted Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
IncurralYear 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 1,917 $ 1,761 $ 1,660 $ 1,659 $ 1,669 $ 1,660 $ 1,649 $ 1,638 $ 1,631 $ 1,615 $ — 37,347
 2012 1,829 1,605 1,539 1,532 1,530 1,515 1,504 1,486 1,479 — 35,626
 2013 1,660 1,479 1,429 1,429 1,416 1,413 1,399 1,385 — 30,611
 2014 1,636 1,473 1,430 1,431 1,431 1,408 1,395 — 31,756
 2015 1,595 1,442 1,422 1,420 1,401 1,385 — 32,527
 2016 1,651 1,481 1,468 1,437 1,417 1 33,244
 2017 1,597 1,413 1,358 1,316 2 30,883
 2018 1,647 1,387 1,309 6 28,364
 2019 1,650 1,424 38 27,136
 2020 1,686 885 15,861
Total $ 14,411

198

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Incurral Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 118 $ 508 $ 743 $ 886 $ 996 $ 1,087 $ 1,167 $ 1,231 $ 1,286 $ 1,324
 2012 108 483 708 835 933 1,014 1,080 1,138 1,185
 2013 102 443 664 791 881 954 1,016 1,067
 2014 103 448 675 801 884 960 1,025
 2015 108 460 687 806 891 962
 2016 112 479 705 819 907
 2017 109 452 658 757
 2018 105 447 639
 2019 101 454
 2020 100
Total $ 8,420

Group Life and Accident, excluding Premium Waiver

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- ------------- --------------- -- ------ ------ - -- ------
Undiscounted Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Incurral Year 2018 2019 2020 IBNR Reserves Claims Reported
 2018 $ 1,952 $ 1,940 $ 1,950 $ 10 52,500
 2019 1,902 1,866 19 57,109
 2020 2,072 401 46,597
Total $ 5,888

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Incurral Year 2018 2019 2020
 2018 $ 1,532 $ 1,916 $ 1,929
 2019 1,471 1,830
 2020 1,524
Total $ 5,283

Group life, disability and accident reserves, including IBNR
The majority of Group Benefits’ reserves are for LTD claimants who are known to be disabled and are currently receiving benefits. A Disabled Life Reserve ("DLR") is calculated for each
LTD claim. The DLR for each claim is the expected present value of all estimated future benefit payments and includes estimates of claim recovery, investment yield, and offsets from other income, including offsets from Social Security benefits and workers’ compensation. Estimated future benefit payments represent the monthly income benefit that is paid until recovery, death or expiration of benefits. Claim recoveries are estimated based on claim characteristics such as age and diagnosis and represent an estimate of benefits that will terminate, generally as a result of the claimant returning to work or being deemed able to return to work. The DLR also includes a liability for payments to claimants who have not yet been approved for LTD either because they have not yet satisfied the waiting (or elimination) period or because the approval or denial decision has not yet been made. In these cases, the present value of future benefits is reduced for the likelihood of claim denial based on Company experience. For claims recently closed due to recovery, a portion of the DLR is retained for the possibility that the claim reopens upon further evidence of disability. In addition, a reserve for estimated unpaid claim expenses is included in the DLR.
For incurral years with IBNR claims, estimates of ultimate losses are made by applying completion factors to the dollar amount of claims reported or expected depending on the market segment. IBNR represents estimated ultimate losses less both DLR and cumulative paid amounts for all reported claims. Completion factors are derived using standard actuarial techniques using triangles that display historical claim count emergence by incurral month. These estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and are adjusted for current trends and other factors expected to cause a change in claim emergence. The IBNR includes an estimate of unpaid claim expenses, including a provision for the cost of initial set-up of the claim once reported.

199

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

For all products, including LTD, there is a period generally ranging from two to twelve months, depending on the product and market segment, where emerged claim information for an incurral year is not yet credible enough to be a basis for an IBNR projection. In these cases, the ultimate losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses are estimated using earned premium multiplied by an expected loss ratio.
The Company also records reserves for future death benefits under group term life policies that provide for premiums to be waived in the event the insured is unable to work due to disability and has satisfied an elimination period, which is typically nine months (premium waiver reserves). The death benefit reserve for these group life premium waiver claims is estimated for a known disabled claimant equal to the present value of expected future cash outflows (typically a lump sum face amount payable at death plus claim expenses) with separate estimates for claimant recovery (when no death benefit is payable) and for death before recovery or benefit expiry (when death benefit is payable). The IBNR for premium waiver death benefits is estimated with standard actuarial development methods.

In addition, the Company also records reserves for group term life, accidental death & dismemberment, short term disability, and other group products that have short claim payout periods. For these products, reserves are determined using paid or reported actuarial development methods. The resulting claim triangles produce a completion pattern and estimate of ultimate loss. IBNR for these lines of business equals the estimated ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses less the amount of paid or reported claims depending on whether the paid or reported development method was used. Estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and are adjusted for current trends or other factors that affect the development pattern.
Cumulative number of reported claims
For group life, disability and accident coverages, claim counts include claims that are approved, pending approval and terminated and exclude denied claims. Due to the nature of the claims, one claimant represents one event.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------- --- - --- - --- - --- - --- -
Average Annual Percentage Payout of Incurred Claims by Age, Net of Reinsurance
 (Unaudited)
 1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year 4th Year 5th Year 6th Year 7th Year 8th Year 9th Year 10th Year
Group long-term disability 7.4 % 25.2 % 15.6 % 8.5 % 6.4 % 5.4 % 4.6 % 3.9 % 3.3 % 2.3 %
Group life and accident, excluding premium waiver 77.0 % 19.5 % 0.7 %

13. RESERVE FOR FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS

------------------------------------------------------ ---- ---
Changes in Reserves for Future Policy Benefits [1]
Liability balance, as of January 1, 2020 $ 635

Incurred 85
Paid (85)
Change in unrealized investment gains and losses 3
Liability balance, as of December 31, 2020 $ 638
Reinsurance recoverable asset, as of January 1, 2020 $ 31
Incurred (2)
Paid (1)
Reinsurance recoverable asset, as of December 31, 2020 $ 28

------------------------------------------------------ ----- ---
Liability balance, as of January 1, 2019 $ 642

Incurred 86
Paid (102)
Change in unrealized investment gains and losses 9
Liability balance, as of December 31, 2019 $ 635
Reinsurance recoverable asset, as of January 1, 2019 $ 27
Incurred 4
Paid —
Reinsurance recoverable asset, as of December 31, 2019 $ 31

[1]Reserves for future policy benefits includes paid-up life insurance and whole-life policies resulting from conversion from group life policies included within the Group Benefits segment and reserves for run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities which are in the Corporate category.

200

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 14 - Debt

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
14. DEBT

The Company’s long-term debt securities are issued by HFSG Holding Company, are unsecured obligations of HFSG Holding Company, and rank on a parity with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of HFSG Holding Company.
Debt is carried net of discount and issuance cost.
Interest expense on debt is included in the Corporate category for segment reporting.
Short-term and Long-term Debt by Issuance

----------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- ----- - -----
 As of December 31,
 2020 2019
Revolving Credit Facilities $ — $ —
Senior Notes and Debentures

5.5% Notes, due 2020 — 500

2.8% Notes, due 2029 600 600
5.95% Notes, due 2036 300 300
6.625% Notes, due 2040 295 295
6.1% Notes, due 2041 409 409
6.625% Notes, due 2042 178 178
4.3% Notes, due 2043 300 300
4.4% Notes, due 2048 500 500
3.6% Notes, due 2049 800 800
Junior Subordinated Debentures
7.875% Notes, due 2042 600 600
3 Month LIBOR + 2.125% Notes, due 2067 [1] 500 500
8.125% Notes, due 2068 — —
Total Notes and Debentures 4,482 4,982
Unamortized discount and debt issuance cost [2] (130) (134)
Total Debt 4,352 4,848
Less: Current maturities — 500
Long-Term Debt $ 4,352 $ 4,348

[1]In April 2017, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement expiring February 15, 2027 to effectively convert the variable interest payments for this debenture into fixed interest payments of approximately 4.39%.
[2]This amount includes unamortized discount of $75 and $76 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, on the 6.1% Notes, due 2041.
The effective interest rate on the 6.1% senior notes due 2041 is 7.9%. The effective interest rate on the remaining notes does not differ materially from the stated rate. The Company incurred interest expense of $236, $259 and $298 on debt for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Shelf Registrations
On May 17, 2019, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission an automatic shelf registration statement (Registration No. 333-231592) for the potential offering and sale of debt and equity securities. The registration statement allows for the following types of securities to be offered: debt securities, junior subordinated debt securities, guarantees, preferred stock,

common stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, and stock purchase units. In that The Hartford is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, the registration statement went effective immediately upon filing and The Hartford may offer and sell an unlimited amount of securities under the registration statement during the three-year life of the registration statement.
Senior Notes
On March 30, 2020, The Hartford repaid at maturity the $500 principal amount of its 5.5% senior notes.

In the Navigators Group acquisition, the Company assumed $265 par value 5.75% Senior notes due on October 15, 2023 with a fair value of $284 as of the acquisition date.
On August 19, 2019, The Hartford issued $600 of 2.8% senior notes (“2.8% Notes”) due August 19, 2029 and $800 of 3.6% senior notes (“3.6% Notes”) due August 19, 2049 for net proceeds of approximately $1.38 billion, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses. Under both senior note issuances, interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on August 19 and February 19, commencing February 19, 2020. The Hartford, at its option, can redeem the 2.8% Notes and the 3.6% Notes at any time, in whole or part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed or a make-whole amount based on a comparable maturity US Treasury rate plus a basis point spread, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, except the make-whole amount is not applicable within the final three months of maturity for the 2.8% Notes and the final six months of maturity for the 3.6% Notes. The spread over the comparable maturity US Treasury rates for determining the make-whole amount is 20 and 25 basis points for the 2.8% Notes and 3.6% Notes, respectively.
After receiving proceeds from the issuance of the 2.8% Notes and 3.6% Notes, in third quarter 2019, The Hartford repaid $265 of 5.75% senior notes due 2023 that had been assumed in the Navigators Group acquisition and $800 of 5.125% senior notes due 2022 of the Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., and recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $90.
On January 15, 2019, The Hartford repaid at maturity the $413 principal amount of its 6.0% senior notes.

201

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 14 - Debt

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Junior Subordinated Debentures
Junior Subordinated Debentures by Issuance as of December 31, 2020

----------------------------------------- ---------------------- --- ---------------------- --- - --- ---
Issue 7.875% Debentures 3 Month LIBOR + 2.125%
Face Value $ 600 $ 500
Interest Rate [1] 7.875 % [2] N/A [3]
Call Date April 15,2022 February 15,2022 [4]
Interest Rate Subsequent to Call Date [2] 3 Month LIBOR + 5.596% 3 Month LIBOR + 2.125% [5]
Final Maturity April 15,2042 February 12,2067

[1]Interest rate in effect until call date.
[2]Payable quarterly in arrears.
[3]Debentures were issued on the original call date of February 15, 2017. The interest rate is variable and resets quarterly.
[4]Although the original call date was February 15, 2017, a Replacement Capital Covenant associated with the debenture prohibits the Company from redeeming all or any portion of the notes on or prior to February 15, 2022, unless consent from covered bondholders is obtained.
[5]In April 2017, the company entered into an interest rate swap agreement expiring February 15, 2027 to effectively convert the interest payments for the 3 Month LIBOR + 2.125% debenture into fixed interest payments of approximately 4.39%.
The debentures are unsecured, subordinated and junior in right of payment and upon liquidation to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness. In addition, the debentures are effectively subordinated to all of the Company’s subsidiaries’ existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities, including obligations to policyholders. The debentures do not limit the Company’s or the Company’s subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional debt, including debt that ranks senior in right of payment and upon liquidation to the debentures.
The Company has the right to defer interest payments for up to a consecutive ten years without giving rise to an event of default. Deferred interest will continue to accrue and will accrue additional interest at the then applicable interest rate. If the Company defers interest payments, the Company generally may not make payments on or redeem or purchase any shares of its capital stock or any of its debt securities or guarantees that rank upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up equally with or junior to the debentures, subject to certain limited exceptions.
The 7.875% and 3 Month LIBOR plus 2.125% debentures may be redeemed in whole prior to the call date upon certain tax or rating agency events, at a price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount being redeemed and the applicable make-whole amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The Company may elect to redeem the 7.875% and 3 Month LIBOR plus 2.125% debentures in whole or in part on or after the call date for the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
In connection with the offering of the 3 Month LIBOR plus 2.125% debenture, the Company entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant ("RCC") for the benefit of holders of one or

more designated series of the Company's indebtedness, initially the Company's 4.3% notes due 2043. Under the terms of the RCC, if the Company redeems the debenture any time prior to February 12, 2047 (or such earlier date on which the RCC terminates by its terms) it can only do so with the proceeds from the sale of certain qualifying replacement securities. The RCC also prohibits the Company from redeeming all or any portion of the notes on or prior to February 15, 2022.
In July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") announced that, by the end of 2021, it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to report information used to set LIBOR, which could result in LIBOR no longer being published after 2021 or a determination by regulators that LIBOR is no longer representative of its underlying market. In December 2020, based on feedback from the banks that report information used to set LIBOR and following discussions with the FCA, the administrator of LIBOR, ICE Benchmark Administration, released a consultation on the potential for it to continue publication of the most widely-used U.S. dollar LIBOR rates until the end of June 2023. Subject to the results of the consultation, it is possible that some U.S. dollar LIBOR rates will continue to be available for a limited period beyond the end of 2021.The Company continues to monitor and assess the potential impacts of the discontinuation of LIBOR on its outstanding junior subordinated debentures.
Long-Term Debt
Long-term Debt Maturities (at par value) as of December 31, 2020

------------------------- - -----
2021 - Current maturities $ —
 2022 $ —
 2023 $ —
 2024 $ —
 2025 $ —
Thereafter $ 4,482

Revolving Credit Facilities
The Company has a senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) that provides up to $750 of unsecured credit through March 29, 2023. Revolving loans from the Credit Facility may be in multiple currencies. U.S. dollar loans will bear interest at a floating rate equivalent to an indexed rate depending on the type of borrowing and a basis point spread based on The Hartford's credit rating and will mature no later than March 29, 2023. Letters of credit issued from the Credit Facility bear a fee based on The Hartford's credit rating and expire no later than March 29, 2024. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a minimum consolidated net worth, excluding AOCI, of $9 billion, limit the ratio of senior debt to capitalization, excluding AOCI, at 35% and meet other customary covenants. The Credit Facility is for general corporate purposes.
As of December 31, 2020, no borrowings were outstanding, no letters of credit were issued under the Credit Facility and the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants.

202

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 14 - Debt

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Lloyd's Letter of Credit Facilities
As a result of the acquisition of Navigators Group, The Hartford had two letter of credit facility agreements: the Club Facility and the Bilateral Facility, which were used to provide a portion of the capital requirements at Lloyd's. As of September 30, 2020, uncollateralized letters of credit with an aggregate face amount of $165 and £60 million, or $78, were outstanding under the Club Facility and £18 million, or $23, was outstanding under the $25 Bilateral Facility. These agreements terminated on November 5, 2020.
On November 5, 2020, The Hartford entered into a new committed credit facility agreement with a syndicate of lenders (the “Club Facility”). The Club Facility has two tranches with one tranche extending a $104 commitment and the other tranche extending a £85 million ($116 as of December 31, 2020) commitment. In addition, on November 5, 2020, The Hartford entered into a new non-committed $25 credit facility with a lender (the “Bilateral Facility”). The term of both of these facilities is two years. The purpose of these facilities is to issue letters of credit that may be treated as Funds at Lloyd’s to support underwriting capacity provided by the Navigators Corporate Underwriters Limited to the Lloyd’s Syndicate 1221 for the 2021 and 2022 underwriting years of account (and prior open years). As of December 31, 2020, letters of credit with an aggregate face amount of $104 and £85 million, or $116, were outstanding under the Club Facility and no letters of credit were outstanding under the Bilateral Facility.
Among other covenants, the Club Facility and Bilateral Facility contain financial covenants regarding The Hartford’s consolidated net worth and financial leverage and that limit the amount of letters of credit that can support Funds at Lloyd’s, consistent with Lloyd’s requirements. As of December 31, 2020, The Hartford was in compliance with all financial covenants of both facilities.
Commercial Paper
On December 17, 2020, the Board of Directors terminated the HFSG Holding Company's commercial paper program, under which the maximum borrowings available were $750.
Collateralized Advances with Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston
The Company’s subsidiaries, Hartford Fire Insurance Company (“Hartford Fire”) and HLA, are members of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (“FHLBB”). Membership allows these subsidiaries access to collateralized advances, which may be short- or long-term with fixed or variable rates. FHLBB membership required the purchase of member stock and requires additional member stock ownership of 3% or 4% of any amount borrowed. Acceptable forms of collateral include real estate backed fixed maturities and mortgage loans and the amount of advances that can be taken is limited to a percentage of the fair value of the assets that ranges from a high of 97% for US government-backed fixed maturities maturing within 3 years to a low of 40% for A-rated commercial mortgage-backed fixed maturities maturing in 5 years or more. In its consolidated balance sheets, The Hartford presents the liability for advances

taken based on use of the funds with advances for general corporate purposes presented in short- or long-term debt and advances to earn incremental investment income presented in other liabilities, consistent with other collateralized financing transactions such as securities lending and repurchase agreements. The Connecticut Department of Insurance permits Hartford Fire and HLA to pledge up to $1.2 billion and $0.6 billion in qualifying assets, respectively, without prior approval, to secure FHLBB advances in 2021. The pledge limit is determined quarterly based on statutory admitted assets and capital and surplus of Hartford Fire and HLA, respectively.
As of December 31, 2020, there were no advances outstanding under the FHLBB facility.

203

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Management evaluates each contingent matter separately. A loss is recorded if probable and reasonably estimable. Management establishes liabilities for these contingencies at its “best estimate,” or, if no one number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, the Company records an estimated liability at the low end of the range of losses.
Litigation
The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. Subject to the uncertainties related to sexual molestation and sexual abuse claims discussed in Note 12, Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expense, and in the following discussion under the caption “COVID-19 Pandemic Business Income Insurance Coverage Litigation” and under the caption “Run-off Asbestos and Environmental Claims,” management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary-course claims litigation, after consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of The Hartford.
The Hartford is also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. In addition to the matter described below, these actions include putative class actions seeking certification of a state or national class. Such putative class actions have alleged, for example, underpayment of claims or improper sales or underwriting practices in connection with various kinds of insurance policies, such as personal and commercial automobile, property, disability, life and inland marine. The Hartford also is involved in individual actions in which punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims or other allegedly unfair or improper business practices. Like many other insurers, The Hartford also has been joined in actions by asbestos plaintiffs asserting, among other things, that insurers had a duty to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos and that insurers committed unfair trade practices by asserting defenses on behalf of their policyholders in the underlying asbestos cases. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such lawsuits, after consideration of provisions made for estimated losses, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of The Hartford. Nonetheless, given the large or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these actions, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, the outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.
COVID-19 Pandemic Business Income Insurance Coverage Litigation
Like many others in the property and casualty insurance industry, beginning in April 2020, various direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company (collectively the "Hartford Writing Companies”), and in some instances the Company itself, have been served as defendants in lawsuits seeking insurance coverage under

commercial insurance policies issued by the Hartford Writing Companies for alleged losses resulting from the shutdown or suspension of their businesses due to the spread of COVID-19. More than 230 such lawsuits have been filed, of which more than 50 purport to be filed on behalf of broad nationwide or statewide classes of policyholders. These lawsuits have been filed in state and federal courts in roughly 31 states. Although the allegations vary, the plaintiffs generally seek a declaration of insurance coverage, damages for breach of contract in unspecified amounts, interest, and attorney’s fees. Many of the lawsuits also allege that the insurance claims were denied in bad faith or otherwise in violation of state laws and seek extra-contractual or punitive damages.
The Company and its subsidiaries deny the allegations and intend to defend vigorously. The Hartford Writing Companies maintain that they have no coverage obligations with respect to these suits for business income allegedly lost by the plaintiffs due to the COVID-19 pandemic based on the clear terms of the applicable insurance policies. Although the policy terms vary depending, among other things, upon the size, nature, and location of the policyholder’s business, in general, the claims at issue in these lawsuits were denied because the claimant identified no direct physical damage or loss to property at the insured premises, and the governmental orders that led to the complete or partial shutdown of the business were not due to the existence of any direct physical loss or damage in the immediate vicinity of the insured premises and did not prohibit access to the insured premises, as required by the terms of the insurance policies. In addition, the vast majority of the policies at issue expressly exclude from coverage any loss caused directly or indirectly by the presence, growth, proliferation, spread or activity of a virus, subject to a narrow set of exceptions not applicable in connection with this pandemic, and contain a pollution and contamination exclusion that, among other things, expressly excludes from coverage any loss caused by material that threatens human health or welfare.
In addition to the inherent difficulty in predicting litigation outcomes, the COVID-19 pandemic business income coverage lawsuits present numerous uncertainties and contingencies that are not yet known, including how many policyholders will ultimately file claims, the number of lawsuits that will be filed, the extent to which any state or nationwide classes will be certified, and the size and scope of any such classes. The legal theories advocated by plaintiffs vary significantly by case as do the state laws that govern the policy interpretation. Many of these lawsuits remain in the earliest stages of litigation, many complaints are in the process of being amended, some have been dismissed voluntarily and may be refiled, while others have been dismissed through rulings in favor of the Hartford Writing Companies. Accordingly, little discovery has occurred. Some policyholders have appealed dismissals in favor of the Hartford Writing Companies; none of these appeals has been fully briefed at this time. In addition, business income calculations depend upon a wide range of factors that are particular to the circumstances of each individual policyholder and, here, virtually none of the plaintiffs have submitted proofs of loss or otherwise quantified or factually supported any allegedly covered loss, and, in any event, the Company’s experience shows that demands for damages often bear little relation to a reasonable estimate of potential

 204

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

loss. Accordingly, management cannot now reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any. Nonetheless, given the large number of claims and potential claims, the indeterminate amounts sought, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that adverse outcomes, if any, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated operating results.
Run-off Asbestos and Environmental Claims
The Company continues to receive A&E claims. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by people who came in contact with asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs.
The vast majority of the Company's exposure to A&E relates to Run-off A&E, reported within the P&C Other Operations segment. In addition, since 1986, the Company has written asbestos and environmental exposures under general liability policies and pollution liability under homeowners policies, which are reported in the Commercial Lines and Personal Lines segments.
Prior to 1986, the Company wrote several different categories of insurance contracts that may cover A&E claims. First, the Company wrote primary policies providing the first layer of coverage in an insured’s liability program. Second, the Company wrote excess and umbrella policies providing higher layers of coverage for losses that exhaust the limits of underlying coverage. Third, the Company acted as a reinsurer assuming a portion of those risks assumed by other insurers writing primary, excess, umbrella and reinsurance coverages.
Significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid gross losses and expenses related to environmental and particularly asbestos claims. The degree of variability of gross reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures.
In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include inadequate loss development patterns, plaintiffs’ expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. Furthermore, over time, insurers, including the Company, have experienced significant changes in the rate at which asbestos claims are brought, the claims experience of particular insureds, and the value of claims, making predictions of future exposure from past experience uncertain. Plaintiffs and insureds also have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings, including “pre-packaged” bankruptcies, to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition, some policyholders have asserted new classes of claims for coverages to which an aggregate limit of liability may not apply. Further uncertainties include insolvencies of other carriers and unanticipated developments pertaining to the Company’s ability to recover reinsurance for A&E claims. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future.
In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include expanding theories of liability and damages, the risks inherent in major litigation, inconsistent decisions concerning the existence and scope of coverage for environmental claims, and uncertainty as to

the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured.
The reporting pattern for assumed reinsurance claims, including those related to A&E claims, is much longer than for direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or years to determine that the policyholder’s own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting reinsurance claims and exposures adds to the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves.
It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of A&E claims.
Given the factors described above, the Company believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for A&E exposures. For this reason, the Company principally relies on exposure-based analysis to estimate the ultimate costs of these claims, both gross and net of reinsurance, and regularly evaluates new account information in assessing its potential A&E exposures. The Company supplements this exposure-based analysis with evaluations of the Company’s historical direct net loss and expense paid and reported experience, and net loss and expense paid and reported experience by calendar and/or report year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and reported activity.
While the Company believes that its current A&E reserves are appropriate, significant uncertainties limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses. The ultimate liabilities, thus, could exceed the currently recorded reserves, and any such additional liability, while not estimable now, could be material to The Hartford’s consolidated operating results and liquidity.
For its Run-off A&E, as of December 31, 2020, the Company reported $702 of net asbestos reserves and $87 of net environmental reserves. In addition, the Company has recorded a $210 deferred gain within other liabilities for losses economically ceded to NICO but for which the benefit is not recognized in earnings until later periods. While the Company believes that its current Run-off A&E reserves are appropriate, significant uncertainties limit our ability to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses. The ultimate liabilities, thus, could exceed the currently recorded reserves, and any such additional liability, while not reasonably estimable now, could be material to The Hartford's consolidated operating results and liquidity.
The Company’s A&E ADC reinsurance agreement with NICO reinsures substantially all A&E reserve development for 2016 and prior accident years, including Run-off A&E and A&E reserves included in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines. The A&E ADC has a coverage limit of $1.5 billion above the Company’s existing net A&E reserves as of December 31, 2016 of approximately $1.7 billion. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has incurred $860 in cumulative adverse development on A&E reserves that have been ceded under the A&E ADC treaty with NICO, leaving $640 of coverage available for future adverse net reserve development, if any. Cumulative adverse development of A&E claims for accident years 2016 and prior could ultimately exceed

205

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

the $1.5 billion treaty limit in which case any adverse development in excess of the treaty limit would be absorbed as a charge to earnings by the Company. In these scenarios, the effect of these charges could be material to the Company’s consolidated operating results and liquidity. For more information on the A&E ADC, refer to Note 12, Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses.

Unfunded Commitments
As of December 31, 2020, the Company has outstanding commitments totaling $1,119, of which $804 is primarily committed to fund limited partnerships and other alternative investments, which may be called by the partnership during the commitment period to fund the purchase of new investments and partnership expenses. Additionally, $79 of the outstanding commitments relate to various funding obligations primarily associated with private debt and equity securities. The remaining outstanding commitments of $236 relate to mortgage loans. Of the $1,119 in total outstanding commitments, $149 are related to mortgage loan commitments which the Company can cancel unconditionally.

Guaranty Funds and Other Insurance-Related Assessments
In all states, insurers licensed to transact certain classes of insurance are required to become members of a guaranty fund. In most states, in the event of the insolvency of an insurer writing any such class of insurance in the state, the guaranty funds may assess its members to pay covered claims of the insolvent insurers. Assessments are based on each member's proportionate share of written premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which the insolvent insurer was engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year to one or two percent of the premiums written per year depending on the state. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through surcharges on policyholders or through full or partial premium tax offsets, while other states permit recovery of assessments through the rate filing process.
Liabilities for guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments are accrued when an assessment is probable, when it can be reasonably estimated, and when the event obligating the Company to pay an imposed or probable assessment has occurred. Liabilities for guaranty funds and other insurance-related assessments are not discounted and are included as part of other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 the liability balance was $83 and $89, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 amounts related to premium tax offsets of $0 and $2, respectively, were included in other assets.

Derivative Commitments
Certain of the Company’s derivative agreements contain provisions that are tied to the financial strength ratings, as set by nationally recognized statistical agencies, of the individual legal entity that entered into the derivative agreement. If the legal entity’s financial strength were to fall below certain ratings, the counterparties to the derivative agreements could demand immediate and ongoing full collateralization and, in certain

instances, enable the counterparties to terminate the agreements and demand immediate settlement of all outstanding derivative positions traded under each impacted bilateral agreement. The settlement amount is determined by netting the derivative positions transacted under each agreement. If the termination rights were to be exercised by the counterparties, it could impact the legal entity’s ability to conduct hedging activities by increasing the associated costs and decreasing the willingness of counterparties to transact with the legal entity. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position as of December 31, 2020 was $86. For this $86, the legal entities have posted collateral of $90 in the normal course of business. Based on derivative market values as of December 31, 2020, a downgrade of one level below the current financial strength ratings by either Moody’s or S&P would not require additional assets to be posted as collateral. A downgrade of two levels below the current financial strength ratings by either Moody’s or S&P would require an additional $2 of assets to be posted as collateral. These collateral amounts could change as derivative market values change, as a result of changes in our hedging activities or to the extent changes in contractual terms are negotiated. The nature of the additional collateral that we would post, if required, would be primarily in the form of U.S. Treasury bills, U.S. Treasury notes and government agency securities.

Guarantees
In the ordinary course of selling businesses or entities to third parties, the Company has agreed to indemnify purchasers for losses arising subsequent to the closing due to breaches of representations and warranties with respect to the business or entity being sold or with respect to covenants and obligations of the Company and/or its subsidiaries. These obligations are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. The Company does not expect to make any payments on these guarantees and is not carrying any liabilities associated with these guarantees.
The Hartford has guaranteed the timely payment of contractual claims under certain life, accident and health and annuity contracts issued by its former life and annuity business with most of the guaranteed contracts issued between 1990 and 1997 (the "Talcott Guarantees"). Upon the sale of the life and annuity business in May 2018, the purchaser indemnified the Company for any liability arising under the guarantees. The Talcott Guarantees cover contractual obligations only but otherwise have no limitation as to maximum potential future payments. Prior to January 1, 2020, the Company had not recorded a liability because the likelihood of any payment under the Talcott Guarantees is remote. Upon adoption of new credit loss guidance on January 1, 2020, the Company estimated a liability for credit loss ("LCL") of $25. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
The LCL is calculated for the estimated amount payable under guaranteed contracts multiplied by the probability of default and the amount of loss given a default. The probability of default is assigned by credit rating of the applicable insurance company that issued the contract and is based on historical insurance industry defaults for liabilities with similar durations estimated

206

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

through multiple economic cycles. Credit ratings are current and forward-looking and consider a variety of economic outcomes. Because annuities represent the majority of the contracts issued, the loss given default factors are based on a historical study of annuity policyholder recoveries from insolvent estate assets. The Company's exposure is expected to run off over a period that will include more than one economic cycle.
The Company's evaluation of the required LCL for the Talcott Guarantees considers the current economic environment as well

as macroeconomic scenarios similar to the approach used to estimate the ACL for mortgage loans. See Note 6 - Investments. In response to significant economic stress experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company increased the weight of both a moderate and severe recession scenario in our estimate of the LCL as of December 31, 2020. The Company has never experienced a loss on financial guarantees of this nature and we believe the risk of loss is remote.

16. EQUITY

Capital Purchase Program ("CPP") Warrants
CPP warrants were issued in 2009 as part of a program established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The CPP warrants expired on June 26, 2019.
The declaration of common stock dividends by the Company in excess of a threshold triggered a provision in the Company's warrant agreement with The Bank of New York Mellon resulting in adjustments to the CPP warrant exercise price and the number of shares deliverable for each warrant exercised (“Warrant Share Number”). Accordingly, the CPP warrant exercise price was $8.836 and the Warrant Share Number was 1.1 as of December 31, 2018. The exercise price was settled by the Company withholding the number of common shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants equal to the value of the aggregate exercise price of the warrants so exercised determined by reference to the closing price of the Company's common stock on the trading day on which the warrants were exercised and notice was delivered to the warrant agent. CPP warrant exercises were 1.9 million and 0.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Equity Repurchase Program
The Hartford’s $1.0 billion equity repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors in February 2019, expired on December 31, 2020. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, The Hartford repurchased $150 (2.7 million shares) and $200 (3.4 million shares), respectively, of common stock under this program.
In December, 2020, the Company announced a $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization by the Board of Directors which is effective from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2022. The timing of any future repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the market price of the Company's securities, the Company's capital position, consideration of the effect of any repurchases on the Company's financial strength or credit ratings, and other considerations.
Preferred Stock
On November 6, 2018, the Company issued 13.8 million depositary shares each representing 1/1000th interest in a share of the Company’s 6.0% Series G non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (“Preferred Stock”) with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25.00 per depositary share), for net cash proceeds of $334. The Preferred Stock is perpetual

and has no maturity date. Dividends are recorded when declared. Dividends are payable, if declared, quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of February, May, August and November of each year. If a dividend is not declared and paid or made payable on all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock for the latest completed dividend period, no dividends may be paid or declared on The Hartford’s common stock and The Hartford may not purchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire its common stock.
The Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option in whole or in part, on or after November 15, 2023 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share, plus unpaid dividends attributable to the current dividend period. Prior to November 15, 2023, the Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option, in whole but not in part, within 90 days of the occurrence of (a) a rating agency event at a redemption price equal to $25,500 per share, plus unpaid dividends attributable to the current dividend period in circumstances where a rating agency changes its criteria used to assign equity credit to securities like the Preferred Stock; or (b) a regulatory capital event at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, plus unpaid dividends attributable to the current dividend period in circumstances where a capital regulator such as a state insurance regulator changes or proposes to change capital adequacy rules.

Statutory Results
The U.S. domestic insurance subsidiaries of The Hartford prepare their statutory financial statements in conformity with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the applicable state insurance department which vary materially from U.S. GAAP. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include publications of the NAIC, as well as state laws, regulations and general administrative rules. The differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP vary between domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The principal differences are that statutory financial statements do not reflect deferred policy acquisition costs and limit deferred income taxes, recognize a deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance within a special surplus account rather than as other liabilities, predominately use interest rate and mortality assumptions prescribed by the NAIC for life benefit reserves, generally carry bonds at amortized cost, and present reinsurance assets and liabilities net of reinsurance. For reporting purposes, statutory capital and surplus is referred to collectively as "statutory capital".

207

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 16 - Equity

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

U.S. Statutory Net Income

-------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Group Benefits Insurance Subsidiary $ 310 $ 513 $ 390
Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries 1,598 1,391 1,114
Life and annuity business sold in May, 2018 — — 196
Total $ 1,908 $ 1,904 $ 1,700

U.S. Statutory Capital

-------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------ ------ - ------
 As of December 31,
 2020 2019
Group Benefits Insurance Subsidiary $ 2,601 $ 2,644
Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries 10,795 10,208
Total $ 13,396 $ 12,852

Regulatory Capital Requirements
The Company's U.S. insurance companies' states of domicile impose risk-based capital (“RBC”) requirements. The requirements provide a means of measuring the minimum amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations based on its size and risk profile. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. All of the Company's operating insurance subsidiaries had RBC ratios in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable insurance regulations.
Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which the Company operates generally establish minimum solvency requirements for insurance companies. All of the Company's international insurance subsidiaries expect to maintain capital levels in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities.
Dividend Restrictions
Dividends to HFSG Holding Company from its insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance regulation. Upon the acquisition of Navigators Group, the Company’s principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the United States, the United Kingdom and Belgium.
The payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers is limited under the insurance holding company laws of Connecticut. These laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, which, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurer’s statutory policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year or (ii) net income

(or net gain from operations, if such company is a life insurance company) for the twelve-month period ending on the thirty-first day of December last preceding, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting principles. In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer exceeds the insurer’s earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner.
Property casualty insurers domiciled in New York, including Navigators Insurance Company ("NIC") and Navigators Specialty Insurance Company ("NSIC"), generally may not, without notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner, pay dividends out of earned surplus in any twelve‑month period that exceeds the lesser of (i) 10% of the insurer’s statutory policyholders’ surplus as of the most recent financial statement on file, or (ii) 100% of its adjusted net investment income, as defined, for the same twelve month period. As part of the New York state insurance commissioner's approval of the Navigators Group acquisition, and as is common practice, any dividend from NIC and NSIC before May 2021 will require prior approval from the state insurance commissioner.
Corporate members of Lloyd's Syndicates may pay dividends to its parent to the extent of available profits that have been distributed from the syndicate in excess of the FAL capital requirement. The FAL is determined based on the syndicate’s solvency capital requirement of the syndicate under the Solvency II capital adequacy model, the current regulatory framework governing UK domiciled insurers, plus a Lloyd’s specific economic capital assessment.
Insurers domiciled in the United Kingdom may pay dividends to its parent out of its statutory profits subject to restrictions imposed under U.K. Company law and Solvency II. Belgium domiciled insurers may only pay dividends if, at the end of its previous fiscal year, the total amount of its assets, as reduced by its provisions and debts, are in excess of certain minimum capital thresholds calculated under Belgian law.
The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which The Hartford’s insurance subsidiaries are incorporated (or deemed commercially domiciled) generally contain similar (although in certain instances more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends. In addition to statutory limitations on paying dividends, the Company also takes other items into consideration when determining dividends from subsidiaries. These considerations include, but are not limited to, expected earnings and capitalization of the subsidiaries, regulatory capital requirements , liquidity requirements of the individual operating company and are also dependent on the extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.
In 2020, the Company received $350 of dividends from HLA and $127 from Hartford Funds. In addition, HFSG Holding Company received $900 of net dividends from P&C subsidiaries in 2020 which excludes $50 of P&C dividends that were subsequently contributed to a run-off P&C subsidiary and $78 of P&C dividends related to interest payments on an intercompany note owed by Hartford Holdings, Inc. ("HHI") to Hartford Fire Insurance Company.
The Company’s property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have dividend capacity of $1.7 billion for 2021, with $850 to $900 of net dividends expected in 2021.

208

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 16 - Equity

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

HLA has dividend capacity of $295 in 2021 with $250 to $295 of dividends expected in 2021.
There are no current restrictions on HFSG Holding Company's ability to pay dividends to its stockholders.

Restricted Net Assets
The Company's insurance subsidiaries had net assets of $17.5 billion, determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, that were restricted from payment to the HFSG Holding Company, without prior regulatory approval at December 31, 2020.

17. INCOME TAXES

Income Tax Expense
The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various state and foreign jurisdictions, as applicable. Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $2,222, $2,644 and $1,753 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, and income (losses) from foreign operations of $(102), $(84) and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Income Tax Expense

---------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- - ----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Income tax expense (benefit)
Current - U.S. federal $ 410 $ 8 $ (18)
Foreign — — —
Total current 410 8 (18)
Deferred - U.S. federal (20) 476 286
Foreign (7) (9) —
Total deferred (27) 467 286
Total income tax expense $ 383 $ 475 $ 268

Income Tax Rate Reconciliation

-------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- - ---
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Tax provision at U.S. Federal statutory rate $ 445 $ 538 $ 368
Tax-exempt interest (46) (56) (66)
Increase in deferred tax valuation allowance 9 2 —

Sale of business (8) — —

Carryback benefit (5) — —
Tax law change (6) — (39)
Other (6) (9) 5
Provision for income taxes $ 383 $ 475 $ 268

Deferred Taxes
Deferred tax assets and liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets represent the tax consequences of differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
The Company predominantly pays non-income state taxes as a percentage of premiums written which are accounted for as policy acquisition costs. State income taxes were $3, $5 and $4

for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are included in other expenses. The Hartford has not recorded state deferred taxes, including net deferred tax assets from state operating loss carryforwards because the Company does not expect to earn state taxable income to utilize such state tax benefits.
Deferred Tax Assets (Liabilities)

---------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- ----- - ---
 As of December 31,
 2020 2019
Deferred tax assets
Loss reserves and tax discount $ 312 $ 214

Unearned premium reserve and other underwriting related reserves 384 385
Investment-related items 125 130

Employee benefits 282 287

Net operating loss carryover 11 84

Other 34 27
Total deferred tax assets 1,148 1,127
Valuation allowance (4) (4)
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 1,144 1,123
Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred acquisition costs (120) (143)
Net unrealized gains on investments (758) (458)
Other depreciable and amortizable assets (220) (223)

Total deferred tax liabilities (1,098) (824)
Net deferred tax asset $ 46 $ 299

For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company has utilized all US net operating loss carryforwards as a reduction of 2020 current tax liability. The Company has foreign net operating losses of $11 for which a valuation allowance of $4 has been established. While the foreign net operating losses ("NOLs") do not expire, this assessment reflects uncertainty in the Company's ability to generate sufficient taxable income in the near term in those specific jurisdictions.
Management has assessed the need for a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets based on tax character and jurisdiction. In making the assessment, management considered future taxable temporary difference reversals, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryovers, taxable income in open carry back years and other tax planning strategies. From time to time, tax planning strategies could include holding a portion of fixed income securities with

209

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 17 - Income Taxes

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

market value losses until recovery, altering the level of tax exempt securities held, making investments which have specific tax characteristics, and business considerations such as asset-liability matching. Management views such tax planning strategies as prudent and feasible and would implement them, if necessary, to realize the deferred tax assets.
Uncertain Tax Positions
Rollforward of Unrecognized Tax Benefits

------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - -- - --
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Balance, beginning of period $ 14 $ 14 $ 9
Gross increases - tax positions in prior period — — 5
Gross decreases - tax positions in prior period — — —

Gross increases - tax positions in current period 1 — —

Balance, end of period $ 15 $ 14 $ 14

The entire amount of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate in the period of the release.
In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2018 the Company recorded a receivable of $5 related to a tax indemnification agreement associated with the life and annuity business sold in May 2018. The receivable is separate from the tax liability and is classified in other assets on the balance sheet.
Other Tax Matters
On March 27, 2020, as part of the business stimulus package in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the U.S. government enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security ("CARES") Act. The CARES Act established new tax provisions including, but not limited to: (1) five-year carryback of net operating losses generated in 2018, 2019 and 2020; (2) accelerated refund of alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforwards; and (3) retroactive changes to allow accelerated depreciation for certain depreciable property.

The legislation results in a benefit of $6 related to the ability to carryback non-insurance losses to recover taxes paid in prior years as described below. The changes to AMT recovery periods do not impact the Company due to the fact that the Company has received a refund or reduction of regular tax payable for all the remaining AMT credits in 2020.
For the year ended December 31, 2020 the Company recorded a tax benefit of $11 related to the expected carryback of losses from the Navigators Group 2019 pre-acquisition tax returns to recover taxes paid in prior years at the previous statutory tax rate of 35%, of which $6 was by virtue of the non-insurance carryback provision of the CARES Act.
Included in 2018 is a benefit of $39, primarily due to the elimination of the sequestration fee on alternative minimum tax credits included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA").
For the year ended December 31, 2020 the Company recorded a tax benefit of $8 related to the excess tax over GAAP basis on the sale of the continental Europe operations. Refer to Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
The federal audits for the Company have been completed through 2013, and the Company is not currently under federal examination for any open years. The statute of limitations is closed through the 2016 tax year with the exception of NOL carryforwards utilized in open tax years. Management believes that adequate provision has been made in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements for any potential adjustments that may result from tax examinations and other tax-related matters for all open tax years.
The Company classifies interest and penalties (if applicable) as income tax expense in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company recognized net interest income of $1, $1 and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. The Company has no interest payable as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. The Company does not believe it would be subject to any penalties in any open tax years and, therefore, has not recorded any accrual for penalties.

18. CHANGES IN AND RECLASSIFICATIONS FROM ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Changes in AOCI, Net of Tax for the Year Ended December 31, 2020

------------------------------ --------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - -- ---- - ----- - ------- - -----
 Changes in
 Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities Unrealized loss on Fixed Maturities with ACL Net Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments AOCI, net of tax
Beginning balance $ 1,684 $ (3) $ 9 $ 34 $ (1,672) $ 52

OCI before reclassifications 1,285 1 24 9 (92) 1,227
Amounts reclassified from AOCI (135) — (21) — 47 (109)
OCI, net of tax 1,150 1 3 9 (45) 1,118
Ending balance $ 2,834 $ (2) $ 12 $ 43 $ (1,717) $ 1,170

210

----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 18 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Changes in AOCI, Net of Tax for the Year Ended December 31, 2019

-------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - --- ---- - ----- - ------- - -------
 Changes in
 Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities OTTI Losses in OCI Net Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments AOCI, net of tax
Beginning balance $ 24 $ (4) $ (5) $ 30 $ (1,624) $ (1,579)
OCI before reclassifications [2] 1,797 1 22 4 (82) 1,742
Amounts reclassified from AOCI (137) — (8) — 34 (111)
OCI, net of tax 1,660 1 14 4 (48) 1,631
Ending balance $ 1,684 $ (3) $ 9 $ 34 $ (1,672) $ 52

Changes in AOCI, Net of Tax for the Year ended December 31, 2018

------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------- --- --- ----- - ------- - ------- - -------
 Changes in
 Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities OTTI Losses in OCI Net Gain on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments AOCI, net of tax
Beginning balance $ 1,931 $ (3) $ 18 $ 34 $ (1,317) $ 663
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [1] 273 — 2 4 (284) (5)
Adjusted balance, beginning of period $ 2,204 $ (3) $ 20 $ 38 $ (1,601) $ 658
OCI before reclassifications [2] (2,245) — 8 (8) (61) (2,306)
Amounts reclassified from AOCI 65 (1) (33) — 38 69
OCI, net of tax (2,180) (1) (25) (8) (23) (2,237)
Ending balance $ 24 $ (4) $ (5) $ 30 $ (1,624) $ (1,579)

[1]Includes reclassification to retained earnings of $88 of stranded tax effects and $93 of net unrealized gains, net of tax, related to equity securities. Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[2]The reduction in AOCI included the effect of removing $758 of AOCI from the balance sheet when the life and annuity business was sold in May 2018.

211

----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 18 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Reclassifications from AOCI

------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ - ---- ----------------------------------------------- ---- --------------------------------------------
AOCI Amount Reclassified from AOCI Affected Line Item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations
 For the year ended December 31, 2020 For the year ended December 31, 2019 For the year ended December 31, 2018
Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities
Fixed maturities, AFS $ 171 $ 174 $ (80) Net realized capital gains (losses)
 171 174 (80) Total before tax
 36 37 (17) Income tax expense
 — — (2) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
 $ 135 $ 137 $ (65) Net income

Unrealized Loss on Fixed Maturities with ACL [1]
Fixed maturities, AFS $ — $ — $ — Net realized capital gains (losses)
 — — — Total before tax
 — — — Income tax expense
 — — 1 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
 $ — $ — $ 1 Net income

Net Gains on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments
Interest rate swaps $ — $ 2 $ 6 Net realized capital gains (losses)
Interest rate swaps 29 4 30 Net investment income
Interest rate swaps (7) 1 — Interest expense
Foreign currency swaps (1) — — Net realized capital gains (losses)
Foreign currency swaps 5 3 — Net investment income
 26 10 36 Total before tax
 5 2 8 Income tax expense
 — — 5 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
 $ 21 $ 8 $ 33 Net income

Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments
Amortization of prior service credit $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 Insurance operating costs and other expenses
Amortization of actuarial loss (67) (50) (55) Insurance operating costs and other expenses

 (60) (43) (48) Total before tax
 (13) (9) (10) Income tax expense
 (47) (34) (38) Net income
Total amounts reclassified from AOCI $ 109 $ 111 $ (69) Net income

[1] Prior to January 1, 2020, includes OTTI in OCI on fixed maturities, AFS. See Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.

19. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Investment and Savings Plan
Substantially all U.S. employees of the Company are eligible to participate in The Hartford Investment and Savings Plan under which designated contributions may be invested in a variety of

investments, including up to 10% in a fund consisting largely of common stock of The Hartford. The Company's contributions include a non-elective contribution of 2.0% of eligible compensation and a dollar-for-dollar matching contribution of up to 6.0% of eligible compensation contributed by the employee

212

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

each pay period. The Company also maintains a non-qualified savings plan, The Hartford Excess Savings Plan, with the dollar-for-dollar matching contributions of employee compensation in excess of the amount that can be contributed under the tax-qualified Investment and Savings Plan. An employee's eligible compensation includes overtime and bonuses but for the Investment and Savings Plan and Excess Savings Plan combined, is limited to $1 annually. The total cost to The Hartford for these plans was approximately $153, $156 and $134 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Additionally, The Hartford has established defined contribution pension plans for certain employees of the Company’s international subsidiaries. The cost to The Hartford for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 for these plans was immaterial.
Post Retirement Benefit Plans
Defined Benefit Pension Plan- The Company maintains The Hartford Retirement Plan for U.S. Employees, a U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan (“Pension Plan”) that covers substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to January 1, 2013. The Company also maintains non-qualified pension plans to provide retirement benefits previously accrued that are in excess of Internal Revenue Code limitations.
The Pension Plan includes two benefit formulas, both of which are frozen: a final average pay formula (for which all accruals ceased as of December 31, 2008) and a cash balance formula for which benefit accruals ceased as of December 31, 2012, although interest will continue to accrue to existing cash balance formula account balances. Employees who were participants as of December 31, 2012 continue to earn vesting credit with respect to their frozen accrued benefits if they continue to work. The interest crediting rate on the cash balance plan is the greater of the average annual yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury Securities or 3.3%. The Hartford Excess Pension Plan II, the Company's non-qualified excess pension benefit plan for certain highly compensated employees, is also frozen.
Group Retiree Health Plan- The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for eligible retired employees. The Company’s contribution for health care benefits are a function of the retiree’s date of retirement and years of service. In addition, the plan has a defined dollar cap for certain retirees which limits average Company contributions. The Hartford has prefunded a portion of the health care obligations through a trust fund where such prefunding can be accomplished on a tax effective basis. Beginning January 1, 2017, for retirees 65 and older who were participating in the Retiree PPO Medical Plan, the Company funds the cost of medical and dental health care benefits through contributions to a Health Reimbursement Account and covered individuals can access a variety of insurance plans from a health care exchange. Effective January 1, 2002, Company-subsidized retiree medical, retiree dental and retiree life insurance benefits were eliminated for employees with original hire dates with the Company on or after January 1, 2002. The Company also amended its postretirement medical, dental and life insurance coverage plans to no longer provide subsidized coverage for employees who retired on or after January 1, 2014.
Assumptions
Pursuant to accounting principles related to the Company’s pension and other postretirement obligations to employees

under its various benefit plans, the Company is required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to calculate the related liabilities and expenses each period. The two economic assumptions that have the most impact on pension and other postretirement expense under the defined benefit pension plan and group retiree health plan are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The assumed discount rates and yield curve is based on high-quality fixed income investments consistent with the maturity profile of the expected liability cash flows. Based on all available market and industry information, it was determined that 2.65% and 2.36% were the appropriate discount rates as of December 31, 2020 to calculate the Company’s pension and other postretirement obligations, respectively.
The expected long-term rate of return considers the actual compound rates of return earned over various historical time periods. The Company also considers the investment volatility, duration and total returns for various time periods related to the characteristics of the pension obligation, which are influenced by the Company's workforce demographics. In addition, for the pension plan, the Company anticipates an allocation of approximately 60% in fixed income securities and 40% in non fixed income securities (global equities, hedge funds and private market alternatives) to derive an expected long-term rate of return. For the other post-retirement plans, the Company anticipates an allocation of approximately 70% in fixed income securities and 30% in non fixed income securities. Based upon these analyses, management determined the long-term rate of return assumption to be 6.00% and 5.60% for the Company's pension and other postretirement obligations, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 6.45% and 6.00% for the Company's pension and other postretirement obligations, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2019. To determine the Company's 2021 expense, the Company has assumed an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 5.40% and 4.90% for the Company's pension and other post retirement obligations, respectively.
Weighted Average Assumptions Used in Calculating the Benefit Obligations and the Net Amount Recognized

------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---- ---- ---- - ---- -
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2020 2019
Discount rate 2.65 % 3.33 % 2.36 % 3.15 %

Weighted Average Assumptions Used in Calculating the Net Periodic Benefit Cost for Pension Plans

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Discount rate 3.33 % 4.35 % 3.73 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 6.00 % 6.45 % 6.60 %

213

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Weighted Average Assumptions Used in Calculating the Net Periodic Benefit Cost for Other Postretirement Plans

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Discount rate 3.15 % 4.23 % 3.55 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 5.60 % 6.00 % 6.60 %

Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Pre-65 health care cost trend rate 7.00 % 7.00 % 6.50 %
Post-65 health care cost trend rate N/A N/A N/A
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.50 % 4.50 % 4.50 %
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2033 2033 2028

Obligations and Funded Status
The following tables set forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets, as well as the funded status of the Company's defined benefit pension and postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans. International plans represent an immaterial percentage of total pension assets, liabilities and expense and, for reporting purposes, are combined with domestic plans.

Change in Benefit Obligation

-------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- - ---
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2020 2019
Benefit obligation — beginning of year $ 4,498 $ 4,000 $ 223 $ 220
Service cost 4 4 — —
Interest cost 127 159 6 8
Plan participants’ contributions — — 11 13
Actuarial loss (gain) 12 48 (2) 6

Amendments — — — (2)
Changes in assumptions 437 488 16 19
Benefits and expenses paid (203) (201) (34) (41)

Benefit obligation — end of year $ 4,875 $ 4,498 $ 220 $ 223

Changes in assumptions in 2020 primarily included a $434 increase in the benefit obligation for pension benefits as a result of a decrease in the discount rate from 3.33% as of the December 31, 2019 valuation to 2.65% as of the December 31, 2020 valuation. Changes in assumptions in 2019 included a $508 increase in the benefit obligation for pension benefits as a result of a decrease in the discount rate from 4.35% as of the December 31, 2018 valuation to 3.33% as of the December 31, 2019 valuation.
The cash balance plan pension benefit obligation was $443 and $420 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The interest crediting rate was 3.30% in 2020, 2019, and 2018.

214

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Change in Plan Assets

--------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2020 2019
Fair value of plan assets — beginning of year $ 3,914 $ 3,344 $ 75 $ 85
Actual return on plan assets 568 701 6 12
Employer contributions [1] 70 70 5 —
Benefits paid [2] (177) (176) (23) (22)
Expenses paid (12) (26) — —

Foreign exchange adjustment — 1 — —
Fair value of plan assets — end of year $ 4,363 $ 3,914 $ 63 $ 75
Funded status — end of year $ (512) $ (584) $ (157) $ (148)

[1]Employer contributions in 2020 and 2019 to the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan were discretionary, made in cash, and did not include contributions of the Company’s common stock.
[2]Other postretirement benefits paid represent non-key employee postretirement medical benefits paid from the Company's prefunded trust fund.
The fair value of assets for pension benefits, and hence the funded status, presented in the table above excludes assets of $186 and $161 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, held in rabbi trusts and designated for the non-qualified pension

plans. The assets do not qualify as plan assets; however, the assets are available to pay benefits for certain retired, terminated and active participants. Such assets are available to the Company’s general creditors in the event of insolvency. The rabbi trust assets consist of equity and fixed income investments. To the extent the fair value of these rabbi trusts were included in the table above, pension plan assets would have been $4,549 and $4,075 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and the funded status of pension benefits would have been $(326) and $(423) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans with an Accumulated Benefit Obligation in Excess of Plan Assets

------------------------------ ------------------ ----- - -----
 As of December 31,
 2020 2019
Projected benefit obligation $ 4,875 $ 4,498
Accumulated benefit obligation $ 4,875 $ 4,498
Fair value of plan assets $ 4,363 $ 3,914

Amounts Recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets

----------------- ------------------ ----------------------------- ---- ---- --- - --- - ---
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 As of December 31,
 2020 2019 2020 2019

Other liabilities $ 512 $ 584 $ 157 $ 148

Net Periodic Cost (Benefit)

------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ---- --- - --- - - - ---
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Service cost $ 4 $ 4 $ 4 $ — $ — $ —
Interest cost 127 159 142 6 8 7
Expected return on plan assets (215) (226) (227) (4) (4) (7)
Amortization of prior service credit — — — (7) (7) (7)
Amortization of actuarial loss 60 44 49 7 6 6

Net periodic cost (benefit) $ (24) $ (19) $ (32) $ 2 $ 3 $ (1)

Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- - ---- - ---- - -
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Amortization of actuarial loss $ 60 $ 44 $ 49 $ 7 $ 6 $ 6

Amortization of prior service credit — — — (7) (7) (6)
Net loss arising during the year (106) (88) (91) (11) (18) 3
Prior service cost (credit) — — — — 2 —
Total $ (46) $ (44) $ (42) $ (11) $ (17) $ 3

215

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Amounts in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Before Tax, not yet Recognized as Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost

-------------------- ------------------ ----------------------------- ---- ---- ------- ---- -- ------- -- - ----- - ----- - -----
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 As of December 31,
 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Net loss $ (2,098) $ (2,052) $ (2,008) $ (136) $ (132) $ (120)
Prior service credit — — — 60 67 72

Total $ (2,098) $ (2,052) $ (2,008) $ (76) $ (65) $ (48)

Pension Plan Assets
Investment Strategy and Target Allocation
The overall investment strategy of the Pension Plan is to maximize total investment returns to provide sufficient funding for present and anticipated future benefit obligations within the constraints of a prudent level of portfolio risk and diversification. With respect to asset management, the oversight responsibility of the Pension Plan rests with The Hartford’s Pension Investment Committee composed of individuals whose responsibilities include establishing overall objectives and the setting of investment policy; selecting appropriate investment options and ranges; reviewing the asset allocation mix and asset allocation targets on a regular basis; and monitoring performance to determine whether or not the rate of return objectives are being met and that policy and guidelines are being followed. The Company believes that the asset allocation decision will be the single most important factor determining the long-term performance of the Pension Plan.
Target Asset Allocation

----------------------- ------------- -------------------------- ------- ------- -- - -- -
 Pension Plans Other Postretirement Plans
 Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
Equity securities 5 % 35 % 15 % 45 %
Fixed income securities 50 % 70 % 55 % 85 %
Alternative assets — % 45 % — % — %

Divergent market performance among different asset classes may, from time to time, cause the asset allocation to deviate from the desired asset allocation ranges. The asset allocation mix is reviewed on a periodic basis. If it is determined that an asset allocation mix rebalancing is required, future portfolio additions and withdrawals will be used, as necessary, to bring the allocation within tactical ranges.
The Pension Plan invests in commingled funds and partnerships managed by unaffiliated managers to gain exposure to emerging markets, equity, hedge funds and other alternative investments. These portfolios encompass multiple asset classes reflecting the current needs of the Pension Plan, the investment preferences and risk tolerance of the Pension Plan and the desired degree of diversification. These asset classes include publicly traded equities, bonds and alternative investments and are made up of individual investments in cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, debt securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage loans and hedge funds. Hedge fund investments represent a diversified portfolio of partnership investments in a variety of strategies.
In addition, the Company uses U.S. Treasury bond futures contracts and U.S. Treasury STRIPS in a duration overlay program to adjust the duration of Pension Plan assets to better match the duration of the benefit obligation.

216

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Pension Plan Assets at Fair Value

------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------- ----------------------- ----- ----- ------- ------- ------- ----- --- ----- ----- --- --- ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019
Asset Category Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Short-term investments: $ 75 $ 25 $ — $ 100 $ 34 $ 54 $ — $ 88
Fixed Income Securities:
Corporate — 2,303 39 2,342 — 2,058 27 2,085
RMBS — 41 1 42 — 61 — 61
U.S. Treasuries — 47 — 47 — 101 — 101
Foreign government — 16 9 25 — 17 1 18
CMBS — 30 — 30 — 32 — 32
Other fixed income [1] — 137 — 137 — 96 1 97
Mortgage Loans — — 161 161 — — 131 131
Equity Securities:
Domestic 513 — — 513 429 1 — 430
International 271 — — 271 261 — — 261

Total pension plan assets at fair value, in the fair value hierarchy [2] $ 859 $ 2,599 $ 210 $ 3,668 $ 724 $ 2,420 $ 160 $ 3,304
Other Investments, at net asset value [3]:
Private Market Alternatives 451 358
Hedge funds 224 212
Total pension plan assets at fair value $ 859 $ 2,599 $ 210 $ 4,343 $ 724 $ 2,420 $ 160 $ 3,874

[1]Includes ABS, municipal bonds, and CDOs.
[2]Excludes approximately $20 and $40 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, of investment receivables net of investment payables that are excluded from this disclosure requirement because they are trade receivables in the ordinary course of business where the carrying amount approximates fair value.
[3]Investments that are measured at net asset value per share or an equivalent and have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy.

The tables below provide fair value level 3 rollforwards for the Pension Plan Assets for which significant unobservable inputs ("Level 3") are used in the fair value measurement on a recurring basis. The Pension Plan classifies the fair value of financial instruments within Level 3 if there are no observable markets for

the instruments or, in the absence of active markets, if one or more of the significant inputs used to determine fair value are based on the Pension Plan’s own assumptions. Therefore, the gains and losses in the tables below include changes in fair value due to both observable and unobservable factors.

217

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- ---- ------------------ -------------- --------- ------ - --- - --- ---- - - - ---
Pension Plan Asset Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
Assets Corporate RMBS Foreign government Mortgage loans Other [1] Totals
Fair Value as of January 1, 2020 $ 27 $ — $ 1 $ 131 $ 1 $ 160
Realized gains (losses), net — — — — (1) (1)
Changes in unrealized gains, net 1 — — 4 1 6
Purchases 14 1 9 32 — 56
Settlements — — — — — —
Sales (3) — — (6) — (9)
Transfers into Level 3 — — — — — —
Transfers out of Level 3 — — (1) — (1) (2)
Fair Value as of December 31, 2020 $ 39 $ 1 $ 9 $ 161 $ — $ 210

Fair Value as of January 1, 2019 $ 14 $ 1 $ 2 $ 133 $ 1 $ 151
Realized gains, net 3 — — — — 3
Changes in unrealized gains, net 2 — — 4 — 6
Purchases 7 — — — — 7
Settlements — — — — — —
Sales (3) (1) (1) (6) — (11)
Transfers into Level 3 4 — — — — 4
Transfers out of Level 3 — — — — — —
Fair Value as of December 31, 2019 $ 27 $ — $ 1 $ 131 $ 1 $ 160

[1]"Other" includes U.S. Treasuries, Other fixed income and CMBS investments.

During the year ended December 31, 2020, transfers into and (out) of Level 3 are primarily attributable to the appearance of or lack thereof of market observable information and the re-evaluation of the observability of pricing inputs.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, transfers into and (out) of Level 3 are primarily attributable to the appearance of or

lack thereof of market observable information and the re-evaluation of the observability of pricing inputs.
There was less than $1 in Company common stock included in the Pension Plan’s assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Other Postretirement Plan Assets at Fair Value

---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ----------------------- ----- -- ------- ------- ------- ----- -- -- -- - -- -- - -- - - - --
 As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019
Asset Category Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Short-term investments $ 2 $ — $ — $ 2 $ 3 $ — $ — $ 3
Fixed Income Securities:
Corporate — 16 — 16 — 18 — 18
RMBS — 9 — 9 — 12 — 12
U.S. Treasuries — 16 — 16 — 20 — 20

CMBS — 1 — 1 — 1 — 1
Other fixed income — 2 — 2 — 2 — 2
Equity Securities:
Large-cap 17 — — 17 19 — — 19
Total other postretirement plan assets at fair value $ 19 $ 44 $ — $ 63 $ 22 $ 53 $ — $ 75

There was no Company common stock included in the other postretirement benefit plan assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Concentration of Risk
In order to minimize risk, the Pension Plan maintains a listing of permissible and prohibited investments. In addition, the Pension Plan has certain concentration limits and investment quality

requirements imposed on permissible investment options. Permissible investments include U.S. equity, international equity, alternative asset and fixed income investments including derivative instruments. Permissible derivative instruments include futures contracts, options, swaps, currency forwards, caps or floors and may be used to control risk or enhance return but will not be used for leverage purposes.

218

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Securities specifically prohibited from purchase include, but are not limited to: shares or fixed income instruments issued by The Hartford, short sales of any type within long-only portfolios, non-derivative securities involving the use of margin, leveraged floaters and inverse floaters, including money market obligations, natural resource real properties such as oil, gas or timber and precious metals.
Other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, the Pension Plan does not have any material exposure to any concentration risk of a single issuer.
Expected Employer Contributions
The Company does not have a 2021 required minimum funding contribution for the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan. The Company has not determined whether, and to what extent, contributions may be made to the U. S. qualified defined benefit pension plan in 2021. The Company will monitor the funded status of the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan during 2021 to make this determination.

Benefit Payments

Amounts of Benefits Expected to be Paid over the next Ten Years from Pension and other Postretirement Plans as of December 31, 2020

----------- ---------------- ----------------------------- -- - ---
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 2021 $ 223 $ 22
 2022 229 20
 2023 235 18
 2024 242 17
 2025 246 15
2026 - 2030 1,252 59
Total $ 2,427 $ 151

20. STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

The Company's stock-based compensation plans are described below. Shares issued in satisfaction of stock-based compensation may be made available from authorized but unissued shares, shares held by the Company in treasury or from shares purchased in the open market. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company issued shares from treasury in satisfaction of stock-based compensation.
Stock-based compensation expense, included in insurance operating costs and other expenses in the consolidated statement of operations, was as follows:
Stock-Based Compensation Expense

---------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- - ---
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Stock-based compensation plans expense $ 116 $ 125 $ 130
Income tax benefit (20) (21) (27)
Excess tax benefit on awards vested, exercised and expired (1) (6) (5)
Total stock-based compensation plans expense, net of tax $ 95 $ 98 $ 98

The Company did not capitalize any cost of stock-based compensation. As of December 31, 2020, the total compensation cost related to non-vested awards not yet recognized was $68, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2 years.
In the second quarter of 2018, The Hartford modified the terms of the portion of its outstanding 2016 and 2017 performance share awards that are based on actual versus targeted return on equity over the performance period. The modification eliminated the benefit to return on equity that arose from the charge against earnings in 2017 driven by the effect of the lower corporate income tax rate on the carrying value of net deferred tax assets.

This modification had no impact on compensation cost recognized over the vesting period since compensation cost based on the original performance share conditions is projected to be higher than what the cost would be based on the performance share conditions as modified.
Stock Plan
Future stock-based awards may be granted under The Hartford's 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Stock Incentive Plan") other than the Subsidiary Stock Plan and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan described below. The Stock Incentive Plan provides for awards to be granted in the form of non-qualified or incentive stock options qualifying under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, stock appreciation rights, performance shares, restricted stock or restricted stock units, or any other form of stock-based award. The maximum number of shares, subject to adjustments set forth in the 2020 Stock Plan, that may be issued to Company employees and third-party service providers during the 10-year duration of the Stock Incentive Plan is the sum of 11,250,000 shares, any shares cancelled subsequent to February 29, 2020, plus any shares used for tax withholding purposes. If any award under an earlier incentive stock plan is forfeited, terminated, surrendered, exchanged, expires unexercised, or is settled in cash in lieu of stock (including to effect tax withholding) or for the net issuance of a lesser number of shares than the number subject to the award, the shares of stock subject to such award (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for awards under the Stock Incentive Plan and such shares shall be added to the maximum limit. As of December 31, 2020, there were 11,735,111 shares available for future issuance.
The fair values of awards granted under the Stock Incentive Plan are measured as of the grant date and expensed ratably over the awards’ vesting periods, generally 3 years. For stock option awards to retirement-eligible employees the Company recognizes the expense over a period shorter than the stated vesting period because the employees receive accelerated vesting upon retirement and therefore the vesting period is

219

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

considered non-substantive. Beginning with awards granted in 2017, employees with restricted stock units and performance shares receive accelerated vesting upon meeting certain retirement eligibility criteria.
Stock Option Awards
Under the Stock Incentive Plan, options granted have an exercise price at least equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant, and an option’s maximum term is not to exceed 10 years. Options generally become exercisable over a period of three years commencing one year from the date of grant. Certain other options become exercisable at the later of three years from the date of grant or upon specified market appreciation of the Company's common shares.
The Company uses a hybrid lattice/Monte-Carlo based option valuation model (the “Plan Valuation Model”) that incorporates the possibility of early exercise of options into the valuation. The Plan Valuation Model also incorporates the Company’s historical termination and exercise experience to determine the option value.

The Plan Valuation Model incorporates ranges of assumptions for inputs, and those ranges are disclosed below. The term structure of volatility is generally constructed utilizing implied volatilities from exchange-traded options, CPP warrants related to the Company’s stock, historical volatility of the Company’s stock and other factors. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination within the Plan Valuation Model, and accommodates variations in employee preference and risk-tolerance by segregating the grantee pool into a series of behavioral cohorts and conducting a fair valuation for each cohort individually. The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option Plan Valuation Model and represents, in a mathematical sense, the period of time that options are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Stock Options Valuation Assumptions

-------------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------- --------- ----- ---- - - ----- ---- - - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Expected dividend yield 2.6% 2.5% 1.8%
Expected annualized spot volatility 22.2 % - 36.2% 20.7 % - 36.7% 20.8 % - 36.5%
Weighted average annualized volatility 30.9% 29.3% 29.0%
Risk-free spot rate 1.3 % - 1.6% 2.4 % - 2.6% 1.5 % - 2.9%
Expected term 6.6 years 5.9 years 5.7 years

Non-qualified Stock Option Activity Under the Stock Incentive Plan

---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ----------------------------- --------------------------------------- ------------------------ --- - --
 Number of Options(in thousands) WeightedAverageExercise Price WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm AggregateIntrinsic Value
 For the year ended December 31, 2020
Outstanding at beginning of year 5,846 $ 43.43
Granted 998 $ 55.27
Exercised (128) $ 24.15
Forfeited (23) $ 51.27
Expired — $ —
Outstanding at end of year 6,693 $ 45.54 5.8 $ 34
Outstanding, fully vested and expected to vest 6,693 $ 63.59 5.8 $ 33
Exercisable at end of year 4,793 $ 42.62 4.7 $ 34

Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value of the Company's closing stock price on the last trading day of the period in excess of the exercise price multiplied by the number of options outstanding or exercisable. The aggregate intrinsic value excludes the effect of stock options that have a zero or negative intrinsic value. The weighted average grant-date fair value per share of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $12.97, $11.71 and $14.04, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $2, $16, and $14, respectively.

Share Awards
Share awards granted under the Stock Incentive Plan and outstanding include restricted stock units and performance shares.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
Restricted stock units are share equivalents that are credited with dividend equivalents. Dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid in incremental shares when the underlying units vest. Restricted stock are shares of The Hartford's common stock with

220

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

restrictions as to transferability until vested. Restricted stock units and restricted stock awards are valued equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. Generally, restricted stock units vest at the end of or over three years; certain restricted stock units vest at the end of five years. Beginning in 2017, restricted stock units vest at the earlier of an employee's retirement eligibility date or three years. Equity awards granted to non-employee directors generally vest in one year and were made in the form of restricted stock units in 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Performance Shares
Performance shares become payable within a range of 0% to 200% of the number of shares initially granted based upon the attainment of specific performance goals achieved at the end of or over three years. While most performance shares vest at the end of or over three years, certain performance shares vest at the end of five years. Beginning in 2017, performance shares vest at the earlier of an employee's retirement eligibility date or three years.
Performance share awards granted prior to 2020 that are not dependent on market conditions are valued equal to the market

price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant less a discount for the absence of dividends. Performance share awards granted in 2020 that are not dependent on market conditions are valued equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. Stock-compensation expense for these performance share awards without market conditions is based on a current estimate of the number of awards expected to vest based on the performance level achieved and, therefore, may change during the performance period as new estimates of performance are available.
Other performance share awards or portions thereof have a market condition based upon the Company's total stockholder return relative to a group of peer companies within a period of three years from the date of grant. Stock compensation expense for these performance share awards is based on the number of awards expected to vest as estimated at the grant date and, therefore, does not change for changes in estimated performance. The Company uses a risk neutral Monte-Carlo Plan Valuation Model that incorporates time to maturity, implied volatilities of the Company and the peer companies, and correlations between the Company and the peer companies and interest rates.
Assumptions for Total Shareholder Return Performance Shares

------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------- --------- ----- ---- - - ----- ---- - - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Volatility of common stock 19.6% 19.4% 20.8%
Average volatility of peer companies 18.0 % - 31.0% 16.0 % - 27.0% 17.0 % - 25.0%
Average correlation coefficient of peer companies 51.0% 50.0% 54.0%
Risk-free spot rate 1.2% 2.4% 2.4%
Term 3.0 years 3.0 years 3.0 years

Total Share Awards

Non-vested Share Award Activity Under the Stock Incentive Plan

--------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ------------------------------ ------------------------------------ - ----- - -----
 Restricted Stock andRestricted Stock Units Performance Shares
 Number of Shares(in thousands) Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Value Number of Shares(in thousands) Weighted-AverageGrant dateFair Value
Non-vested shares For the year ended December 31, 2020
Non-vested at beginning of year 3,912 $ 50.83 770 $ 52.31
Granted 1,323 $ 54.64 391 $ 55.62
Performance based adjustment, net (73) $ 50.09
Vested (1,224) $ 49.19 (276) $ 50.90

Forfeited (145) $ 52.71 (22) $ 53.54
Non-vested at end of year 3,866 $ 52.58 790 $ 54.82

The weighted average grant-date fair value per share of restricted stock units and restricted stock granted during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $54.64, $50.49 and $53.11, respectively. The weighted average grant-

date fair value per share of performance shares granted during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $55.62, $54.07 and $50.26, respectively.

221

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $73, $102 and $114, respectively, based on actual or estimated performance factors. The Company did not make cash payments in settlement of stock compensation during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Subsidiary Stock Plan
In 2013 the Company established a subsidiary stock-based compensation plan similar to the Stock Incentive Plan, except that it awards non-public subsidiary stock as compensation. The Company recognized stock-based compensation plan expense of $11, $11 and $9 in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, for the subsidiary stock plan. Upon employee vesting of subsidiary stock, the Company recognizes a noncontrolling equity interest. Employees are restricted from selling vested subsidiary stock to anyone other than the Company and the Company has discretion on the amount of stock to repurchase. Therefore, the subsidiary stock is classified as equity because it is not mandatorily redeemable. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company repurchased $10 in subsidiary stock.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Company sponsors The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). Under this plan, eligible employees of The Hartford purchase common stock of the Company at a discount rate of 5% of the market price per share on the last trading day of the offering period. Accordingly, the plan is a non-compensatory plan. Employees purchase a variable number of shares of stock through payroll deductions elected as of the beginning of the offering period. The Company may sell up to 15,400,000 shares of stock to eligible employees under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2020, there were 3,743,847 shares available for future issuance. During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, 340,653 shares, 213,472 shares, and 219,661 shares were sold, respectively. The weighted average per share fair value of the discount under the ESPP was $1.99, $2.82 and $2.56 during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The fair value is estimated based on the 5% discount off the market price per share on the last trading day of the offering period.

21. LEASES

The Hartford has operating leases for real estate and equipment. The right-of-use asset as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $209 and $191, respectively, and is included in property and equipment, net, in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The lease liability as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $221 and $201, respectively, and is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Variable lease costs include changes in interest rates on variable rate leases primarily for automobiles.
Components of Lease Expense

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- --- - --
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019
Operating lease cost $ 52 $ 49
Short-term lease cost — 2
Variable lease cost — 1
Sublease income (5) (5)
Total lease costs included in insurance operating costs and other expenses $ 47 $ 47

The total rental expense recognized in accordance with prior lease guidance was $56 in 2018, which excludes sublease rental income of $4 in 2018.

Supplemental Operating Lease Information

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------- --- - --
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019
Operating cash flows for operating leases (for the twelve months ended) $ 54 $ 50
Right-of-use asset obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities 49 42
Weighted-average remaining lease term in years for operating leases 7 years 6 years
Weighted-average discount rate for operating leases 3.1 % 3.5 %

Maturities of Operating Lease Liabilities as of December 31, 2020

------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---
 Operating Leases
 2021 $ 47
 2022 42
 2023 39
 2024 30
 2025 22
Thereafter 63
Total lease payments 243
Less: Discount on lease payments to present value 22
Total lease liability $ 221

222

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
22. BUSINESS DISPOSITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Sale of life and annuity business
On May 31, 2018, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Hartford Holdings, Inc, completed the sale of its life and annuity business to a group of investors led by Cornell Capital LLC, Atlas Merchant Capital LLC, TRB Advisors LP, Global Atlantic Financial Group, Pine Brook and J. Safra Group. Under the terms of the sale agreement signed December 3, 2017, the investor group formed a limited partnership, Hopmeadow Holdings LP, that acquired HLI, and its life and annuity operating subsidiaries, for cash of approximately $1.4 billion after a pre-closing dividend to The Hartford of $300. The Hartford received a 9.7% ownership interest in the limited partnership, valued at a cost of $164 as of the sale date. In addition, as part of the terms of the sale agreement, The Hartford reduced its long-term debt by $142 because the debt, which was issued by HLI, was included as part of the sale. Including cash proceeds and the retained equity interest and net of transaction costs, net proceeds for the sale were approximately $1.5 billion. The life and annuity operations met the criteria for reporting as discontinued operations and are reported in the Corporate category through the date of sale.
After having recognized a loss on sale within discontinued operations of approximately $3.3 billion in 2017, the Company recognized a reduction in loss on sale of $202 in 2018. The reduction in loss on sale in 2018 primarily resulted from the reclassification to retained earnings of $193 of tax effects stranded in AOCI due to the accounting for Tax Reform and a $141 increase in estimated retained tax benefits, primarily net operating loss carryovers, partially offset by $104 of operating income from discontinued operations during the period up until the closing date and a reclassification of $10 of net unrealized capital gains from AOCI to retained earnings. See Note 1 - Adoption of New Accounting Standards within Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, for additional information about the reclassifications from AOCI to retained earnings. The estimated amount of retained net operating loss carryovers depends on the estimated tax basis of the business sold which increased subsequent to the date the Company entered into the sale agreement. At closing, stockholders’ equity was further reduced for the amount of AOCI of the life and annuity business, which was approximately $758, largely consisting of net unrealized gains on investments, net of shadow DAC.
Cash inflows and outflows from and to the life and annuity business after closing were immaterial to the overall inflows and
outflows of the Company. Additionally, the revenues and expenses presented in continuing operations related to pre-disposal operations were immaterial.
The Company has been managing invested assets of the life and annuity business sold in May 2018 for an initial term of five years and provided transition services through February, 2020.
The Hartford reported its 9.7% ownership interest in Hopmeadow Holdings LP, which is accounted for under the equity method, in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

The Hartford recognizes its share of income in other revenues in the Consolidated Statement of Operations on a three month delay, when financial information from the investee becomes available. The Company recognized $42 and $66, before tax, of income in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Cash inflows for dividends received from Hopmeadow Holdings LP were $30 and $67, respectively. Other cash inflows and outflows from and to the life and annuity business after closing were immaterial to the overall inflows and outflows of the Company.
Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities Transferred to the Buyer in Connection with the Sale

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -------
 Carrying Value as of
 Closing
Assets
Cash and investments $ 27,058
Reinsurance recoverables 20,718

Loss accrual [1] (3,044)
Other assets 2,907
Separate account assets 110,773
Total assets held for sale $ 158,412
Liabilities
Reserve for future policy benefits and unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses $ 14,308
Other policyholder funds and benefits payable 28,680
Long-term debt 142
Other liabilities 2,222
Separate account liabilities 110,773
Total liabilities held for sale $ 156,125

[1]Represents the estimated accrued loss on sale of the Company's life and annuity business.

223

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Reconciliation of the Major Line Items Constituting Pretax Profit (Loss) of Discontinued Operations

------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ---
 For the year ended December 31,
 2018
Revenues
Earned premiums $ 39
Fee income and other 382

Net investment income 519
Net realized capital losses (68)
Total revenues 872
Benefits, losses and expenses
Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses 535
Amortization of DAC 58
Insurance operating costs and other expenses [1] 157
Total benefits, losses and expenses 750
Income before income taxes 122
Income tax expense 2
Income from operations of discontinued operations, net of tax 120
Net realized capital gain (loss) on disposal, net of tax 202
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 322

[1]Corporate allocated overhead has been included in continuing operations.
Cash Flows from Discontinued Operations included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

---------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- -----
 For the year ended December 31,
 2018
Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations $ 603
Net cash provided by investing activities from discontinued operations $ 463
Net cash used in financing activities from discontinued operations [1] $ (737)

[1]Excludes return of capital to parent of $619 for 2018.

224

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Sale of Continental Europe Operations
On September 30, 2020, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Continental Europe Operations. The transaction is expected to close by the second quarter of 2021, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. The complete sale of the Continental Europe Operations consists of multiple arrangements designed as a single transaction. The assets and liabilities of the Continental Europe Operations have been classified as held for sale in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020.
Total consideration less costs to sell is estimated to be approximately $14, resulting in an estimated loss on the sale of approximately $48, before tax, which has been recorded within net realized capital gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2020 in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The

Company also recorded related income tax benefits of $18, for an estimated after tax loss of $30 on the sale, for the year ended December 31, 2020. The accrual for the estimated before tax loss is included as a reduction of the carrying value of assets held for sale in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020. The Continental Europe Operations are reported under the Commercial Lines segment. The estimate of consideration less costs to sell of $14 includes an estimate of consideration that is contingent on how the ultimate amounts required to settle claims on 2020 and prior accident years, as determined at the end of 2024, compare with recorded reserves as currently estimated. The contingent consideration has been estimated at its fair value of $12 and could increase or decrease depending on how ultimate losses develop. Any change in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration in a future period would increase or decrease the estimated loss on sale in that period.
Carrying Value of Assets and Liabilities to be Transferred in Connection With the Sale [1]

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ---
 As of December 31, 2020
Assets
Investments and cash $ 142

Reinsurance recoverables and other 35
Total assets held for sale 177
Liabilities
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses 84
Unearned premiums 31
Other liabilities 43
Total liabilities held for sale $ 158

[1] As of December 31, 2020, the estimated fair value of the disposal group is $14 based on the estimated consideration to be received less cost to sell. Within the disposal group, as of December 31, 2020, investments in fixed maturities and short-term investments, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, had a fair value of $84, of which $1 was based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and $83 was based on significant observable inputs. The remaining fair value less costs to sell for the disposal group is ($70), which is measured on a nonrecurring basis using significant unobservable inputs. See Note 5—Fair Value Measurements for more information.

23. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER COSTS

In recognition of the need to become more cost efficient and competitive along with enhancing the experience we provide to agents and customers, on July 30, 2020 the Company announced an operational transformation and cost reduction plan it refers to as Hartford Next. Hartford Next is intended to reduce annual insurance operating costs and other expenses through reduction of the Company's headcount, investment in information technology ("IT") to further enhance our capabilities, and other activities. The activities are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2022.
Termination benefits related to workforce reductions and professional fees are included within restructuring and other

costs in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and unpaid restructuring costs are included in other liabilities in the December 31, 2020 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, the Company expects to incur additional costs including, amortization of right of use assets and other lease exit costs, other IT costs to retire applications, professional fees and other expenses. Total restructuring and other costs are expected to be approximately $158, before tax, and will be recognized in Corporate for segment reporting.

225

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 23 - Restructuring and Other Costs

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

----------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ --- ------------------------------------ -- - ---
Restructuring and Other Costs, Before Tax

 Incurred in the Year Ended December 31, 2020 [1] Total Amount Expected to be Incurred
Severance benefits $ 73 $ 73
IT costs 2 26
Professional fees and other expenses 29 59
Total restructuring and other costs, before tax $ 104 $ 158

[1] Amounts incurred for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 are the cumulative incurred under the restructuring program.

------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------- --------------------------- - --------------------------------------------- - ---- - --
Accrued Restructuring and Other Costs
 Year Ended December 31, 2020
 Severance Benefits and Related Costs IT Costs Professional Fees and Other Total Restructuring and Other Costs Liability
Balance, beginning of period $ — $ — $ — $ —
Incurred 73 2 29 104
Payments (19) (2) (29) (50)
Balance, end of period $ 54 $ — $ — $ 54

24. QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
Current and Historical Quarterly Results of the Company

------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------ ----- -------- ---- ------------- ----- ------------ ----- ----- ---- ----- ----- ----- - ----- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 Three months ended
 March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31,
 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Revenues $ 4,956 $ 4,940 $ 5,068 $ 5,092 $ 5,171 $ 5,347 $ 5,328 $ 5,361
Benefits, losses and expenses 4,612 4,165 4,476 4,636 4,639 4,694 4,676 4,685

Net income $ 273 $ 630 $ 468 $ 372 $ 459 $ 535 $ 537 $ 548
Less: Preferred stock dividends 5 5 5 — 6 11 5 5
Net income available to common stockholders $ 268 $ 625 $ 463 $ 372 $ 453 $ 524 $ 532 $ 543
Net income available to common stockholders per common share

Basic $ 0.75 $ 1.74 $ 1.29 $ 1.03 $ 1.26 $ 1.45 $ 1.48 $ 1.51

Diluted $ 0.74 $ 1.71 $ 1.29 $ 1.02 $ 1.26 $ 1.43 $ 1.47 $ 1.49

226

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule I. Summary of Investments - Other Investments in Affiliates

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE I
SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS — OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES
(in millions)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------- ------------------------------------- ----- ------ ------ - -----
 As of December 31, 2020
Type of Investment Cost Fair Value Amount atwhich shown on Balance Sheet
Fixed Maturities
Bonds and notes
U.S. government and government agencies and authorities (guaranteed and sponsored) $ 4,872 $ 5,214 $ 5,214
States, municipalities and political subdivisions 8,564 9,503 9,503
Foreign governments 842 919 919
Public utilities 1,999 2,249 2,249
All other corporate bonds 16,402 18,024 18,024
All other mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities 8,882 9,126 9,126
Total fixed maturities, available-for-sale 41,561 45,035 45,035

Equity Securities
Common stocks
Industrial, miscellaneous and all other 932 932 932
Non-redeemable preferred stocks 506 506 506

Total equity securities, at fair value 1,438 1,438 1,438
Mortgage loans [1] 4,531 4,792 4,493

Futures, options and miscellaneous 247 201 201
Short-term investments 3,283 3,283 3,283
Investments in partnerships and trusts 2,082 2,082
Total investments $ 53,142 $ 56,532

[1] Cost of mortgage loans excludes the allowance for credit losses ("ACL") of $38. For further information, refer to Schedule V - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

227

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule II. Condensed Financial Information of the Hartford Financial Services, Inc.
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE II
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
(Registrant)
(in millions)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------ ------ - ------
 As of December 31,
Condensed Balance Sheets 2020 2019
Assets
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value (amortized cost of $127 and $293) $ 127 $ 294
Equity securities, at fair value — 31
Other investments 20 159
Short-term investments 1,678 874
Cash — —
Investment in affiliates 22,986 21,243
Deferred income taxes 493 561
Unamortized issue costs 2 2
Other assets 66 71
Total assets $ 25,372 $ 23,235
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Net payable to affiliates $ 1,757 $ 1,602
Short-term debt (includes current maturities of long-term debt) — 500
Long-term debt 4,352 4,348
Other liabilities 707 515
Total liabilities 6,816 6,965
Total stockholders’ equity 18,556 16,270
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 25,372 $ 23,235

The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

228

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule II. Condensed Financial Information of the Hartford Financial Services, Inc.
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE II
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. (continued)
(Registrant)
(in millions)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- - ------- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
Condensed Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 2020 2019 2018
Net investment income $ 9 $ 50 $ 41
Net realized capital gains (losses) (2) 3 37
Total revenues 7 53 78
Interest expense 236 255 298
Loss on extinguishment of debt — 68 6

Other expense (income) (8) 15 (6)
Total expenses 228 338 298
Loss before income taxes and earnings of subsidiaries (221) (285) (220)
Income tax expense (benefit) (39) (60) (630)
Income (loss) before earnings of subsidiaries (182) (225) 410
Earnings (losses) of subsidiaries 1,919 2,310 1,397
Net income (loss) 1,737 2,085 1,807
Other comprehensive income (loss) - parent company:
Change in net gain or loss on cash-flow hedging instruments (28) (24) 8
Change in net unrealized gain or loss on fixed maturities (1) 5 (271)
Change in pension and other postretirement plan adjustments (36) (35) (26)
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes before other comprehensive income of subsidiaries (65) (54) (289)
Other comprehensive income (loss) of subsidiaries 1,183 1,685 (1,948)
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 1,118 1,631 (2,237)
Total comprehensive income (loss) $ 2,855 $ 3,716 $ (430)

The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

229

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule II. Condensed Financial Information of the Hartford Financial Services, Inc.

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE II
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. (continued)
(Registrant)
(in millions)

----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ------- - ------- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 2020 2019 2018
Operating Activities
Net income $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,807
Loss on extinguishment of debt — 68 6
Dividends received from subsidiaries 995 18 3,115
Equity in net income of subsidiaries (1,919) (2,310) (1,397)
Net realized capital losses (gains) 2 3 (37)
Change in operating assets and liabilities 504 640 (716)
Cash provided by operating activities 1,319 504 2,778
Investing Activities
Net proceeds from (payments for) short-term investments (802) 1,731 (2,161)
Proceeds from the sale/maturity/prepayment of:
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale 311 478 —
Equity securities, at fair value 124 — —
Payments for the purchase of:
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale (128) — —

Net payments for derivatives (57) (33) —
Net additions to property and equipment — — (69)
Amount paid for business acquired — (2,098) —
Capital returned from (contributions to) subsidiaries 386 (20) (148)
Cash provided by (used for) investing activities (166) 58 (2,378)
Financing Activities
Proceeds from issuance of debt — 1,376 490

Repayments of debt (500) (1,278) (826)
Preferred stock issued, net of issuance costs — — 334

Treasury stock acquired (150) (200) —
Net return of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans (21) (6) (18)

Dividends paid on common shares (461) (436) (379)
Dividends paid on preferred shares (21) (21) —
Cash used for financing activities (1,153) (565) (399)

Net increase (decrease) in cash — (3) 1
Cash — beginning of period — 3 2
Cash — end of period $ — $ — $ 3
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information
Interest Paid $ 232 $ 255 $ 290

The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

230

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule III. Supplementary Insurance Information
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE III
SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
(in millions)

------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------------- ----- --- --- - ----- - ---
Segment Deferred PolicyAcquisition Costs Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses Reserve for Future Policy Benefits Unearned Premiums OtherPolicyholderFunds and Benefits Payable

As of December 31, 2020
Commercial Lines $ 641 $ 25,058 $ — $ 5,081 $ —
Personal Lines 103 1,836 — 1,506 —
Property & Casualty Other Operations — 2,728 — 2 —
Group Benefits 38 8,233 420 40 415
Hartford Funds 7 — — — —
Corporate — — 218 — 286
Consolidated $ 789 $ 37,855 $ 638 $ 6,629 $ 701
As of December 31, 2019
Commercial Lines $ 615 $ 23,363 $ — $ 5,015 $ —
Personal Lines 111 2,201 — 1,578 —
Property & Casualty Other Operations — 2,697 — 3 —
Group Benefits 51 8,256 411 39 459
Hartford Funds 8 — — — —
Corporate — — 224 — 296
Consolidated $ 785 $ 36,517 $ 635 $ 6,635 $ 755

231

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule III. Supplementary Insurance Information
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE III
SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
(in millions)

------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------ --- ------ ----- - ----- - ----- - ------
Segment EarnedPremiums,Fee Income and Other NetInvestment Income Benefits, Lossesand LossAdjustment Expenses Amortization ofDeferred PolicyAcquisition Costs InsuranceOperatingCosts andOtherExpenses [1] Net Written Premiums [2]
For the year December 31, 2020
Commercial Lines $ 8,941 $ 1,160 $ 5,929 $ 1,397 $ 1,683 $ 8,969
Personal Lines 3,123 157 1,466 244 663 2,936
Property & Casualty Other Operations — 55 258 — 10 —
Group Benefits 5,536 448 4,137 50 1,348 —
Hartford Funds 989 4 — 14 773 —
Corporate 102 22 15 1 415 9
Consolidated $ 18,691 $ 1,846 $ 11,805 $ 1,706 $ 4,892 $ 11,914
For the year December 31, 2019
Commercial Lines $ 8,326 $ 1,129 $ 5,192 $ 1,296 $ 1,776 $ 8,452
Personal Lines 3,318 179 2,185 259 702 3,131
Property & Casualty Other Operations 2 84 21 — 12 —
Group Benefits 5,603 486 4,055 54 1,352 —
Hartford Funds 999 7 — 12 813 —
Corporate 146 66 19 1 431 12
Consolidated $ 18,394 $ 1,951 $ 11,472 $ 1,622 $ 5,086 $ 11,595
For the year December 31, 2018
Commercial Lines $ 7,081 $ 997 $ 4,112 $ 1,048 $ 1,396 $ 7,136
Personal Lines 3,523 155 2,763 275 684 3,276
Property & Casualty Other Operations — 90 65 — 13 (4)
Group Benefits 5,598 474 4,214 45 1,342 —
Hartford Funds 1,032 5 — 16 831 —
Corporate 53 59 11 — 387 —
Consolidated $ 17,287 $ 1,780 $ 11,165 $ 1,384 $ 4,653 $ 10,408

[1] Includes interest expense, loss on extinguishment of debt, restructuring and other costs, loss on reinsurance transaction and amortization of intangible assets.
[2]Excludes life insurance pursuant to Regulation S-X.

232

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule IV. Reinsurance

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE IV
REINSURANCE
(in millions)

------------------------------------ ----------- ------------ -------------------------- --------- -------------------------------- ----- ------- -- - --------- -- -
 GrossAmount Ceded Amount AssumedFrom OtherCompanies NetAmount Percentageof AmountAssumedto Net
For the year ended December 31, 2020
Life insurance in-force $ 1,134,390 $ 19,055 $ 20,373 $ 1,135,708 2 %
Insurance revenues
Property and casualty insurance $ 12,551 $ 1,173 $ 540 $ 11,918 5 %
Life insurance and annuities 2,251 24 207 2,434 9 %
Accident and health insurance 2,994 72 180 3,102 6 %
Total insurance revenues $ 17,796 $ 1,269 $ 927 $ 17,454 5 %
For the year ended December 31, 2019
Life insurance in-force $ 879,496 $ 18,483 $ 254,739 $ 1,115,752 23 %
Insurance revenues
Property and casualty insurance $ 12,010 $ 936 $ 416 $ 11,490 4 %
Life insurance and annuities 1,739 25 807 2,521 32 %
Accident and health insurance 2,383 66 765 3,082 25 %
Total insurance revenues $ 16,132 $ 1,027 $ 1,988 $ 17,093 12 %
For the year ended December 31, 2018
Life insurance in-force $ 722,048 $ 16,674 $ 442,817 $ 1,148,191 39 %
Insurance revenues
Property and casualty insurance $ 10,824 $ 599 $ 221 $ 10,446 2 %
Life insurance and annuities 1,551 22 1,082 2,611 41 %
Accident and health insurance 2,064 39 962 2,987 32 %
Total insurance revenues $ 14,439 $ 660 $ 2,265 $ 16,044 14 %

233

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule V. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE V
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
(in millions)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------------------------------------- -- ------------------------- ------------------- - --- - ---- -- - ---
 BalanceJanuary 1, [1] Increase (decrease) inCosts andExpenses Write-offs/Payments/Other BalanceDecember 31,
 2020
Allowance for credit losses ("ACL") on fixed maturities, available-for-sale $ 30 $ (7) $ 23
ACL on mortgage loans $ 19 $ 19 $ — $ 38
ACL on premiums receivable and agents' balances $ 122 $ 74 $ (44) $ 152
Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 116 $ 4 $ (12) $ 108
Valuation allowance for deferred taxes $ 4 $ 9 $ (9) $ 4
 2019
ACL on mortgage loans $ 1 $ (1) $ — $ —
ACL on premiums receivable and agents' balances $ 135 $ 42 $ (32) $ 145
Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 126 $ 2 $ (14) $ 114
Valuation allowance for deferred taxes $ — $ — $ 4 $ 4
 2018
ACL on mortgage loans $ 1 $ — $ — $ 1
ACL on premiums receivable and agents' balances $ 132 $ 40 $ (37) $ 135
Allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 104 $ 3 $ 19 $ 126
Valuation allowance for deferred taxes $ — $ — $ — $ —

[1] The balance as of January 1, 2020 reflects a cumulative effect adjustments recorded to retained earnings of $19, ($23), and $2, for the ACL on mortgage loans, ACL on premiums receivable and agents' balances, and the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, respectively. For more information see Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.

234

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Part IV - Schedule VI. Supplementary Information Concerning Property and Casualty Insurance Operations

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
SCHEDULE VI
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING
PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS
(in millions)

------------------------ ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- - ----- - ----- - -------
 DiscountDeducted From Liabilities [1] Losses and Loss AdjustmentExpenses Incurred Related to: Paid Losses andLoss Adjustment Expenses
 Current Year Prior Year
Years ended December 31,
 2020 $ 367 $ 7,794 $ (136) $ (6,404)
 2019 $ 388 $ 7,463 $ (65) $ (6,748)
 2018 $ 388 $ 7,107 $ (167) $ (6,406)

[1]Indemnity reserves for a portion of workers’ compensation claims that have a fixed and determinable payment stream have been discounted using the weighted average interest rates of 2.68%, 2.91%, and 2.98% for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

235

Table of Contents
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020
FORM 10-K
EXHIBITS INDEX
The exhibits attached to this Form 10-K are those that are required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ---------- ----------- -----------
 Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No. Description Form File No. Exhibit No. Filing Date
 2.01 Purchase and Sale Agreement by and among Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, Hartford Life, Inc. and The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ("The Hartford") dated as of September 4, 2012. 10-Q 001-13958 2.01 11/01/2012
 2.02 Purchase and Sale Agreement by and among Hartford Life, Inc., Prudential Financial, Inc. and The Hartford dated as of September 27, 2012. 10-Q 001-13958 2.02 11/01/2012
 2.03 Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement dated December 3, 2017 by and between The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., Hartford Holdings, Inc. Hopmeadow Acquisition, Inc. Hopmeadow Holdings, LP and Hopmeadow Holdings GP LLC. 8-K 001-13958 2.01 12/04/2017
 2.04 Master Transaction Agreement by and between Hartford Life & Accident Insurance Company, a subsidiary of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., and Aetna Inc. dated as of October 22, 2017. 8-K 001-13958 2.01 10/23/2017
 2.05 Commitment Agreement by and between The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America and State Street Global Advisors Trust Company, as the Independent Fiduciary of The Hartford Retirement Plan for U.S. Employees, dated as of June 23, 2017.† 10-Q 001-13958 2.01 07/27/2017
 2.06 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 22, 2018, by and among The Navigators Group, Inc., The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and Renato Acquisition Co. 8-K/A 001-13958 2.1 08/22/2018
 3.01 Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Hartford, as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on October 20, 2014. 8-K 001-13958 3.01 10/20/2014
 3.02 Certificate of Designations with respect to the Series G Preferred Stock of the Company, dated October 30, 2018. 8-K 001-13958 3.1 11/05/2018
 3.03 Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Hartford, amended effective December 17, 2020 8-K 001-13958 3.1 12/17/2020
 4.01 Senior Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2004, between The Hartford and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee. 8-K 001-13958 4.1 03/12/2004
 4.02 Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of February 12, 2007, between The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., and Wilmington Trust Company (as successor to LaSalle Bank, National Association), as Trustee. 8-K 001-13958 4.01 02/16/2007
 4.03 Senior Indenture, dated as of April 11, 2007, between The Hartford and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. S-3ASR 333-142044 4.03 04/11/2007
 4.04 Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of June 6, 2008, between The Hartford and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. 8-K 001-13958 4.1 06/06/2008
 4.05 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 6, 2008, between The Hartford and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. 8-K 001-13958 4.2 06/06/2008
 4.06 Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 5, 2012, between The Hartford and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. 8-K/A 001-13958 4.3 04/06/2012
 4.07 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 9, 2013, between The Hartford and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee. S-3ASR 333-190506 4.07 08/09/2013
 4.08 Replacement Capital Covenant dated as of February 15, 2017. 8-K 001-13958 4.01 02/15/2017
 4.09 Form of Series G Preferred Stock Certificate (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 5, 2018). 8-K 001-13958 3.1 11/05/2018
 4.10 Deposit Agreement, dated November 6, 2018, among the Company, Computershare Inc. and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., collectively as depositary, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein. 8-K 001-13958 4.2 11/06/2018

236

Table of Contents

----------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------- ---------- ----------- -----------
 Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No. Description Form File No. Exhibit No. Filing Date
 4.11 Form of Depositary Receipt (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2018) 8-K 001-13958 4.3 11/06/2018
 4.12 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 19, 2019, between The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee 8-K 001-13958 4.3 08/19/2019
 4.13 Description of Securities**

 10.01 Aggregate Excess of Loss Reinsurance Agreement by and between Hartford Fire Insurance Company, First State Insurance Company, New England Insurance Company, New England Reinsurance Corporation, Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company, Hartford Casualty Insurance Company, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, Hartford Insurance Company of Illinois, Hartford Insurance Company of the Midwest, Hartford Insurance Company of the Southeast, Hartford Lloyd’s Insurance Company, Hartford Underwriters Insurance Company, Nutmeg Insurance Company, Pacific Insurance Company, Limited, Property and Casualty Insurance Company of Hartford, Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd., Trumbull Insurance Company, Twin City Fire Insurance Company (collectively, the "Reinsured") and National Indemnity Company (the "Reinsurer") dated as of December 30, 2016. †† 10-K 001-13958 10.01 02/24/2017
 10.02 Amendment dated March 29, 2018 to the Existing Credit Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2014, among The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. as borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and the other parties signatory thereto. 8-K 001-13958 10.1 03/30/2018
 10.03 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of the Extension Date (as defined therein), among The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. as borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and the other parties signatory thereto. 8-K 001-13958 10.2 03/30/2018
*10.04 The Hartford Senior Executive Officer Severance Pay Plan, as amended and restated, effective October 1, 2014. 10-K 001-13958 10.04 02/27/2015
*10.05 The Hartford Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan, as amended and restated, effective October 1, 2014. 10-K 001-13958 10.05 02/27/2015
*10.06 The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan Administrative Rules Relating to Awards for Non-Employee Directors. 10-K 001-13958 10.06 02/27/2015
*10.07 The Hartford 2010 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated, effective February 25, 2014. 10-K 001-13958 10.05 02/28/2014
*10.08 The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan, effective May 21, 2014. S-8 333-197671 4.03 07/28/2014
*10.09 The Hartford Protection Agreement between The Hartford and Christopher Swift, effective June 9, 2014. 10-Q 001-13958 10.03 07/30/2014
*10.10 The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan Form of Non-Employee Directors Award Agreement. 10-Q 001-13958 10.01 07/27/2015
*10.11 The Hartford 2010 Incentive Stock Plan Administrative Rules Related to Awards for Key Employees, as amended effective December 15, 2010. 10-K 001-13958 10.10 02/25/2011
*10.12 The Hartford 2010 Incentive Stock Plan Forms of Individual Award Agreements. 10-Q 001-13958 10.04 08/04/2010
*10.13 The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended for the fiscal year ended 2009. 10-K 001-13958 10.10 02/23/2010
*10.14 The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan Forms of Individual Award Agreements. 8-K 001-13958 10.2 05/24/2005
*10.15 Form of Key Executive Employment Protection Agreement between The Hartford and certain executive officers of The Hartford, as amended. 10-K 001-13958 10.06 02/12/2009
*10.16 The Hartford Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Plan, as amended. 10-K 001-13958 10.12 02/24/2006
*10.17 The Hartford Excess Savings Plan IA, as amended effective May 28, 2013. 8-K 001-13958 10.01 07/29/2013
*10.18 The Hartford Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended December 20, 2012. 10-K 001-13958 10.18 03/01/2013
*10.19 The Hartford Excess Pension Plan II, as amended January 1, 2013. 10-K 001-13958 10.19 03/01/2013
*10.20 The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan Forms of Individual Award Agreements 10-Q 001-13958 10.02 04/26/2018

237

Table of Contents

----------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- --------- ----------- -----------
 Incorporated by Reference
Exhibit No. Description Form File No. Exhibit No. Filing Date
*10.21 The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan 8-K 001-13958 10.01 02/21/2019
*10.22 Amendment to The Hartford Excess Savings Plan IA 10-Q 001-13958 10.01 11/04/2019
*10.23 The Hartford 2020 Stock Incentive Plan, effective May 20, 2020 8-K 001-13958 10.01 05/21/2020
*10.24 The Hartford 2020 Stock Incentive Plan Forms of Individual Award Agreements.**
*10.25 The Hartford 2020 Stock Incentive Plan Administrative Rules Relating to Awards for Non-Employee Directors.**
*10.26 The Hartford 2020 Stock Incentive Plan Form of Non-Employee Directors Award Agreement.**
 21.01 Subsidiaries of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. **
 23.01 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP to the incorporation by reference into The Hartford’s Registration Statements on Form S-8 and Form S-3 of the report of Deloitte & Touche LLP contained in this Form 10-K regarding the audited financial statements is filed herewith.**
 24.01 Power of Attorney. **
 31.01 Certification of Christopher J. Swift pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. **
 31.02 Certification of Beth A. Costello pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. **
 32.01 Certification of Christopher J. Swift pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. **
 32.02 Certification of Beth A. Costello pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. **
101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.
101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.
101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.**
101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.**
101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.**
 104.01 Cover Page Interactive Data File - formatted in Inline XBRL and included as Exhibit 101

-- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.

** Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to this report.
† Certain portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Order Granting Confidential Treatment Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, dated August 7, 2017
†† Certain portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Order Granting Confidential Treatment Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, dated March 17, 2017

238

Table of Contents

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[refer to Note 15]:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[See Note 21]:
NOTE 21 RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[see Note 18]:
Note 18. Segment Reporting We manufacture and market primarily snack food products, including biscuits (cookies, crackers and salted snacks), chocolate, gum & candy and various cheese & grocery products, as well as powdered beverage products. We manage our global business and report operating results through geographic units. We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise across our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions. Our operations and management structure are organized into four operating segments: *Latin America *AMEA *Europe *North America 124 We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze segment performance and trends. Segment operating income excludes unrealized gains and losses on hedging activities (which are a component of cost of sales), general corporate expenses (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses), amortization of intangible assets, gains and losses on divestitures and acquisition-related costs (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses) in all periods presented. We exclude these items from segment operating income in order to provide better transparency of our segment operating results. Furthermore, we centrally manage benefit plan non-service income and interest and other expense, net. Accordingly, we do not present these items by segment because they are excluded from the segment profitability measure that management reviews. Our segment net revenues and earnings, reflecting our current segment structure for all periods presented, were: ------------- -------------------------------- ------ ---- ----- ---- ------ ------ - ------ F...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[see Note 22]:
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 125

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[Refer to Note 13]:
(13)The restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. Section 1.3.Transfer and Exchange. This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 and the first two paragraphs of Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only. 1.3.1.Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Certificated Notes if: (a)the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (b)the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Certificated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or (c)there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. 5 Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (a), (b) or (c) above, Certificated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise permitted and/or required by the Indenture, every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 1.3 or Section 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note f...

[see Note 15]:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 20]:
Note 20. Income Taxes Components of Income and Income tax expense The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: -------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) United States $ 3,304 $ 4,213 $ 3,510 Foreign 4,456 5,518 3,694 Income before income taxes $ 7,760 $ 9,731 $ 7,204 MASTERCARD 2020 FORM 10-K 95 PART II

[see Note 22]:
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 125

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[Refer to Note 8]:
Note 8.Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, colocations, and equipment. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements for certain network equipment. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ------------ ----- ---- ----- - ----- December 31, 2020 2019 Finance lease cost Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 259 $ 195 Interest 14 12 Operating lease cost 1,391 1,139 Variable lease cost and other, net 269 160 Total lease cost $ 1,933 $ 1,506 Operating lease expense was $629 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 under Topic 840. 100 Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: ------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2020 2019 Weighted-average remaining lease term Operating leases 12.2 years 13.0 years Finance leases 14.9 years 15.3 years Weighted-average discount rate Operating leases 3.1 % 3.2 % Finance leases 2.9 % 3.1 % The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): ---------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2021 $ 1,300 $ 68 2022 1,394 51 2023 1,266 41 2024 1,163 41 2025 1,001 41 Thereafter 7,206 401 Total undiscounted cash flows 13,330 643 Less: Imputed interest (2,676) (120) Present value of lease liabilities $ 10,654 $ 523 Lease liabilities, current $ 1,023 $ 54 Lease liabilitie...

[as discussed in Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28 EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

[see Note 12]:
Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other Contractual Commitments We also have $7.50 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2020, which are mostly related to our investments in network infrastructure, consumer hardware, content costs and data center operations. The majority of these commitments are due within five years. Legal and Related Matters Beginning on March 20, 2018, multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed in state and federal courts in the United States and elsewhere against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws, breach of fiduciary duties, and other causes of action in connection with our platform and user data practices as well as 103 the misuse of certain data by a developer that shared such data with third parties in violation of our terms and policies, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Beginning on July 27, 2018, two putative class actions were filed in federal court in the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws in connection with the disclosure of our earnings results for the second quarter of 2018 and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the N...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[See Note 12]:
Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event in connection with the disclosure of our earnings results for the second quarter of 2018 and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the N...

[see Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[see Note 22]:
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 125

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS used by those of Adobe accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated 

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across for use in their products accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying and...

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. and services on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 22]:
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 125

[See Note 6]:
(6)This an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets Financial with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies delivering, measuring, optimizing, services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network and other with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements (7)This primarily reflects the difference between made and debt is serviced. However,...

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well 

[refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis Consolidated 

[refer to Note 12]:
Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other Contractual Commitments We also have $7.50 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2020, which are mostly related to our investments in network infrastructure, consumer hardware, content costs and data center operations. The majority of these commitments are due within five years. Legal and Related Matters Beginning on March 20, 2018, multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed in state and federal courts in the United States and elsewhere against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws, breach of fiduciary duties, and other causes of action in connection with our platform and user data practices as well as 103 the misuse of certain data by a developer that shared such data with third parties in violation of our terms and policies, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Beginning on July 27, 2018, two putative class actions were filed in federal court in the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws in connection with the disclosure of our earnings results for the second quarter of 2018 and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the N...

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for via of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

[Refer to Note 22]:
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 125

[Refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well 

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying and...

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. (6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjuste...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[Notes 1 and 12]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer optimizing, engaging manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other Statements include those of Adobe accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[Notes 5 and 6]:
(5)As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. (6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28 EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjuste...

[see Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24

[Part I, Item 3]:
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 45

[Exhibit 3.1 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 3.1]

[Exhibit 4.2 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 4.2]

[Exhibit 101

]:
[Exhibit 101: INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.]

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Derivative Commitments
Certain of the Company’s derivative agreements contain provisions that are tied to the financial strength ratings, as set by nationally recognized statistical agencies, of the individual legal entity that entered into the derivative agreement. If the legal entity’s financial strength were to fall below certain ratings, the counterparties to the derivative agreements could demand immediate and ongoing full collateralization and in certain instances enable the counterparties to terminate the agreements and demand immediate settlement of all outstanding derivative positions traded under each impacted bilateral agreement. For further information, refer to Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of December 31, 2020, no derivative positions would be subject to immediate termination in the event of a downgrade of one level below the current financial strength ratings. This could change as a result of changes in our hedging activities or to the extent changes in contractual terms are negotiated.

Insurance Operations
While subject to variability period to period, underwriting and investment cash flows continue to provide sufficient liquidity to meet anticipated demands over the next twelve months. For information about the impact of COVID-19 on the Company']:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[' short-term investments would be satisfied with current operating funds, including premiums or investing cash flows, which includes proceeds received through the sale of invested assets. A sale of invested assets could result in significant realized capital losses.
The following tables represent the fixed maturity holdings, including the aforementioned cash and short-term investments available to meet liquidity needs, for each of the Company’s insurance operations.
Property & Casualty

--------------------------- ----------------- ------
 As of
 December 31, 2020
Fixed maturities $ 34,173
Short-term investments 1,086
Cash 120
Less: Derivative collateral 77
Total $ 35,302

Group Benefits Operations

--------------------------- ----------------- ------
 As of
 December 31, 2020
Fixed maturities $ 10,521
Short-term investments 254
Cash 13
Less: Derivative collateral 42
Total $ 10,746

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations
The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources of the Company, except for unfunded commitments to purchase investments in limited partnerships and other alternative investments, private placements, and mortgage loans as disclosed in Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

114

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[' equity, excluding AOCI, net of tax 17,052 15,884 7%
Preferred stock 334 334 —%
AOCI, net of tax 1,170 52 NM
Total stockholders’ equity $ 18,556 $ 16,270 14%
Total capitalization $ 22,908 $ 21,118 8%
Debt to stockholders’ equity 23 % 30 %
Debt to capitalization 19 % 23 %

Total capitalization increased $1,790, or 8%, as of December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 primarily due to an

increase in AOCI and net income in excess of stockholder dividends, partially offset by a paydown of debt.
For additional information on AOCI, net of tax, including

115

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22

['s financial strength and credit ratings. Rating agencies may implement changes to their capital formulas that have the effect of increasing the amount of capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors — “Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt.”

116

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24

['s Insurance Subsidiaries
 Property and Casualty Insurance Subsidiaries [1] [2] Group Benefits Insurance Subsidiary Total
U.S. statutory capital at January 1, 2020 $ 10,208 $ 2,644 $ 12,852
Statutory income 1,598 310 1,908
Contributions from (dividends to) parent [3] (898) (350) (1,248)
Other items (113) (3) (116)
Net change to U.S. statutory capital 587 (43) 544
U.S. statutory capital at December 31, 2020 $ 10,795 $ 2,601 $ 13,396

[1]The statutory capital for property and casualty insurance subsidiaries in this table does not include the value of an intercompany note owed by HHI to Hartford Fire Insurance Company.
[2]Excludes insurance operations in the U.K. and Continental Europe.
[3]P&C insurance subsidiaries dividends to Parent of $898 includes $900 of net dividends from P&C subsidiaries, offset by $2 related to the interest on the HHI note.

Stat to GAAP Differences
Significant differences between U.S. GAAP stockholders’ equity and aggregate statutory capital prepared in accordance with U.S. STAT include the following:
•U.S. STAT excludes equity of non-insurance and foreign insurance subsidiaries not held by U.S. insurance subsidiaries.
•Costs incurred by the Company to acquire insurance policies are deferred under U.S. GAAP while those costs are expensed immediately under U.S. STAT.
•Temporary differences between the book and tax basis of an asset or liability which are recorded as deferred tax assets are evaluated for recoverability under U.S. GAAP while these amounts are then subject to further admissibility tests under U.S. STAT.
 best estimates.
•The difference between the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity and other investments, net of tax, is recorded as an increase or decrease to the carrying value of the related rated bonds required by the NAIC to be recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair value.
•U.S. STAT for life insurance companies like HLA establishes a formula reserve for realized and unrealized Maintenance Reserve) while U.S. GAAP does not.

•Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a business is tested for recoverability on an annual basis (or more frequently, as necessary) for U.S. GAAP, while under U.S. STAT goodwill is amortized over a period not to exceed 10 years and the amount of goodwill admitted as an asset is limited.
•The deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance for losses ceded to the Navigators and A&E ADC agreements is recognized within a special category of surplus under U.S. STAT but is recognized within other liabilities under U.S. GAAP.
In addition, certain assets, including 

Risk-Based Capital
The Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software to enterprise customers through through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s international insurance subsidiaries expect to maintain capital levels in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities.

Sensitivity
In any particular period, statutory capital amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending upon a variety of factors. The amount of change in the statutory capital or RBC ratios can vary based on individual factors and may be compounded in extreme scenarios or if multiple factors occur at the same time. At times the impact of changes in certain market factors or a combination of multiple factors on RBC ratios can be counterintuitive. For further discussion on these factors, see

117

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22

['s desired RBC ratios and ratings from rating agencies. The amount of statutory capital can increase or decrease depending on a number of factors affecting insurance loss reserves, and the effect of realized gains and losses on investments.

Contingencies
Legal Proceedings
For a discussion regarding contingencies related to The Hartford’s legal proceedings, see the information
contained under “Litigation” and “Run-off Asbestos and Environmental Claims,” in Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Legislative and Regulatory Developments
COVID-19 Global Pandemic
State and federal retroactive business interruption coverage and other of COVID-19 claims under existing business interruption coverage provisions. If such proposals were enacted, they could represent a material exposure for the Company. Further, some states have adopted, to meal delivery services using their personal automobile policy as coverage. The Hartford has offered consumer financial relief including a 15 percent refund on policyholders’ April and May 2020 personal  The duration and scope of such regulatory/Company actions are uncertain, and the impacts of

such actions could adversely affect the Company’s insurance business.
Federal pandemic risk insurance - Congress to these efforts is uncertain at this time. If such a program were to be enacted, it could represent a significant obligation for the company in terms of deductible and co-share obligations.
Federal emergency leave legislation - On March 18, 2020, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act ("]:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[") Act. The bill, signed into law on March 27, 2020, focused on providing financial support for small businesses, individuals, emergency workers, airlines and other industries of national security. The CARES Act included several technical corrections to the emergency leave programs and time.
Federal tax legislation - In response to the COVID-19 Global Pandemic, Congress, various states and other global jurisdictions have passed various pieces of legislation which contain various changes 2020 to year-end 2020. Such deferred amounts would be due and payable over a two-year period, 50% by December 31, 2021 and 50% by December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the impact of these new tax laws on the Company. The U.S. Treasury and IRS continue to develop guidance implementing these new tax law provisions, and Congress may consider additional technical corrections to these laws. Tax proposals and regulatory initiatives which have been or are being considered by Congress and/or the U.S. Treasury Department could have a material effect on the Company and its insurance businesses. The nature and timing of any Congressional or regulatory action with respect to any such efforts is unclear.

118

----------------- -------------
Table of Contents Index to MD&A

Part II - Item 7. Management']:
NOTE 27: SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) ------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- -- -- ----- -- - ----- - ----- 2020 Quarters (dollars in millions) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Net sales $ 3,888 $ 3,972 $ 5,002 $ 4,594 Operating profit (1) $ 315 $ 442 $ 1,081 $ 1,245 Net income attributable to common shareowners (2) $ 96 $ 261 $ 741 $ 884 Earnings per share - basic (3) $ 0.11 $ 0.30 $ 0.86 $ 1.02 Earnings per share - diluted (3) $ 0.11 $ 0.30 $ 0.84 $ 1.00 2019 Quarters Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Net sales $ 4,323 $ 4,962 $ 4,822 $ 4,501 Operating profit (1) $ 500 $ 805 $ 629 $ 557 Net income attributable to common shareowners (2) $ 400 $ 784 $ 492 $ 440 Earnings per share - basic (3) $ 0.46 $ 0.91 $ 0.57 $ 0.50 Earnings per share - diluted (3) $ 0.46 $ 0.91 $ 0.57 $ 0.50 (1) Q3 2020 and Q4 2020 Operating profit includes a $252 million and $871 million gain on the sale of our equity ownership in Beijer, respectively. Q1 2020 Operating profit includes a $71 million impairment charge related to a minority owned joint venture investment. Q3 2019 Operating profit includes a $108 million impairment charge related to a minority owned joint venture investment. (2) Q1 2020 Net income includes a $51 million charge related to a valuation allowance recorded against a United Kingdom tax loss and a credit carryforward and a charge of $46 million resulting from Carrier's decision to no longer permanently reinvest certain pre-2018 unremitted non-U.S. earnings. Q2 2019 Net income includes a tax benefit of $149 million as a result of the filing by a subsidiary of Carrier to participate in an amnesty program offered by the Italian Tax Authority and conclusion of a U.S. income tax audit. (3) Earnings per share for periods presented prior to the Separation and the Distribution were calculated using the number of shares that were distributed to UTC shareowners in the Distribution. For periods prior to the Separation and the Distribution it was assumed that there were ...

['s internal control over financial reporting which is set forth below.

121

Table of Contents

Part II - Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Hartford, Connecticut
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, of the Company and our report dated February 19, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management']:
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the purposes set forth in the definition thereof in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of December 31, 2020. Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting The management of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("The Hartford") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for The Hartford as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, int...

[" and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which is applicable to all employees of the Company, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on the investor relations section of the Company’s website at: http://ir.thehartford.com.

Any waiver of, or material amendment to, the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct will be posted promptly to our web site in accordance with applicable NYSE and SEC rules.
Executive Officers of The Hartford
Information about the executive officers of The Hartford who are also nominees for election as directors will be set forth in The Hartford’s Proxy Statement. Set forth below is information about the other executive officers of the Company as of February 10, 2021:

------------------- --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name Age Position with The Hartford and Business Experience For the Past Five Years
Jonathan R. Bennett 56 Executive Vice President and Head of Group Benefits (August 2019 - Present); Chief Financial Officer and Head of Strategy for Property and Casualty and Group Benefits (October, 2012-August 2019)
William A. Bloom 57 Executive Vice President of Operations and Technology (August 2014 - present); President of Global Client Services, EXL (July 2010-July 2014)
Kathleen M. Bromage 63 Chief Marketing and Communications Officer (June 2015-present)
Beth A. Costello 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (July 2014-present)
Douglas G. Elliot 60 President (July 2014-present)

Scott R. Lewis 58 Senior Vice President and Controller (May 2013-present)
Robert W. Paiano 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer (June 2017-Present); Senior Vice President & Treasurer (July 2010-May 2017)
David C. Robinson 55 Executive Vice President and General Counsel (June 2015-present)
Lori A. Rodden (April 2016 to October 2019) and Vice President and Lead Human Resources for Middle Market, Large Commercial, Sales & Distribution and underwriting (November 2014 to April 2016)
Amy M. Stepnowski 52 Executive Vice President Chief Investment Officer (August 2020-Present); President of Hartford Investment Management Company (August 2020-Present); Managing Director and Head of Public Credit Research Hartford Investment Management Company (September 2008-August 2020)

123

Table of Contents

Part III - Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Certain of the information called for by Item 12 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Information on Stock Ownership” and is incorporated herein by reference.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The following table provides information as of December 31, 2020 about the securities authorized Plan”), The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan (the "]:
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Certain of the information called for by Item 12 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption "Information on Stock Ownership" and is incorporated herein by reference. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table provides information as of December 31, 2020 about the securities authorized for issuance under the Company's equity compensation plans. The Company maintains The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the "2005 Stock Plan"), The Hartford 2010 Incentive Stock Plan (the "2010 Stock Plan"), The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan (the "2014 Stock Plan"), the 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2020 Stock Plan") (collectively the "Stock Plans") and The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"). On May 20, 2020, the stockholders of the Company approved the 2020 Stock Plan, which superseded the earlier plans. Pursuant to the provisions shares subject to the award, the shares subject to such awards (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for award under the 2020 Stock Plan and such shares shall be added to the total number of shares available under the 2020 Stock Plan. For a description of the 2020 Stock Plan and the ESPP, see Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

[") and The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”).

On May 20, 2020, the stockholders of the Company approved the 2020 Stock Plan, which superseded the earlier plans. Pursuant to the provisions of the 2020 Stock Plan, no additional shares may be issued from the 2014 Stock Plan. To the extent that any awards under the 2005 Stock Plan, the 2010 Stock Plan and the 2014 Stock Plan are forfeited, terminated, surrendered, exchanged, expire unexercised or are settled in cash in lieu of stock (including to effect tax withholding) or for the issuance of a lesser number of shares than the number of shares subject to the award, the shares subject to such awards (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for award under the 2020 Stock Plan and such shares shall be added to the total number of shares available under the 2020 Stock Plan. For a description of the 2020 Stock Plan and the ESPP, see Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- - ----------
 (a) (b) (c)
 Number of Securitiesto be Issued Upon Exercise ofOutstanding Options,Warrants and Rights [1] Weighted-averageExercise Price of OutstandingOptions, Warrantsand Rights [2] Number of Securities RemainingAvailable for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans(Excluding Securities Reflected inColumn (a)) [3]
Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders 11,348,877 $ 45.54 15,478,958
Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders — — —

Total 11,348,877 $ 45.54 15,478,958

[1]The amount shown in this column includes 6,693,188 outstanding options awarded under shares at 100% of target (which excludes 276,434 shares that vested on December 27, 2020, related to the 2018-2020 performance period) as of December 31, 2020 under the 2014 Stock Plan and the 2020 Stock 500,000 shares in the aggregate can be earned by an individual employee with respect to restricted stock unit and performance share awards made in a single calendar year. As a result, the number of shares ultimately distributed to an employee with respect to awards made in the same year will be reduced, if necessary, so that the number does not exceed this limit.
[2]The weighted-average exercise price reflects outstanding options and does not reflect outstanding restricted stock units or performance shares because they do not have exercise prices.
[3]Of these shares, 3,743,847 remain available for purchase under the ESPP as of December 31, 2020. 11,735,111 shares remain available for issuance as options, restricted stock units, restricted stock awards or performance shares under the 2020 Stock Plan as of December 31, 2020.

124

Table of Contents

Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)     Documents filed as a part of this report:

(1)Consolidated Financial Statements. See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

(2)Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules. See Index to Consolidated Financial Statement and Schedules elsewhere herein.

(3)Exhibits. See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----
DESCRIPTION PAGE
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statements of Operations — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 128
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 129
Consolidated Balance Sheets — As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 130
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 131
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — For the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 132
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies 133
Note 2 - Business Acquisitions 142
Note 3 - Earnings (Loss) per Share 144
Note 4 - Segment Information 145
Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements 148
Note 6 - Investments 157
Note 7 - Derivatives 165
Note 8 - Premiums Receivable 170
Note 9 - Reinsurance 171
Note 10 - Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs 174
Note 11 - Goodwill & Other Intangible Assets 174
Note 12 - Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses 176
Note 13 - Reserve for Future Policy Benefits 200
Note 14 - Debt 201
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies 204
Note 16 - Equity 207
Note 17 - Income Taxes 209
Note 18 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax 210
Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans 212
Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans 219
Note 21 - Leases 222
Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations 223
Note 23 - Restructuring and Other Costs 225
Note 24 - Quarterly Results (Unaudited) 226
SCHEDULES
Schedule I — Summary of Investments — Other Than Investments in Affiliates 227
Schedule II — Condensed Financial Information of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. 228
Schedule III — Supplementary Insurance Information 231
Schedule IV — Reinsurance 233
Schedule V — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 234
Schedule VI — Supplemental Information Concerning Property and Casualty Insurance Operations 235

125

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.
Hartford, Connecticut
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "]:
Note 20. Income Taxes Components of Income and Income tax expense The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: -------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) United States $ 3,304 $ 4,213 $ 3,510 Foreign 4,456 5,518 3,694 Income before income taxes $ 7,760 $ 9,731 $ 7,204 MASTERCARD 2020 FORM 10-K 95 PART II

[") 1,706 1,622 1,384
Insurance operating costs and other expenses 4,480 4,580 4,281
Loss on extinguishment of debt — 90 6
Loss on reinsurance transaction — 91 —
Interest expense 236 259 298
Amortization of other intangible assets 72 66 68
Restructuring and other costs 104 — —

Total benefits, losses and expenses 18,403 18,180 17,202
Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,120 2,560 1,753
Income tax expense 383 475 268
Income from continuing operations, net of tax 1,737 2,085 1,485
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax — — 322
Net income $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,807
Preferred stock dividends 21 21 6
Net income available to common stockholders $ 1,716 $ 2,064 $ 1,801

Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders per common share
Basic $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 4.13
Diluted $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.06
Net income available to common stockholders per common share
Basic $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 5.03
Diluted $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.95

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

128

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ----- --- ------- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net income $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,807
Other comprehensive income (loss):
Change in net unrealized gain on fixed maturities 1,150 1,660 (2,180)
Change in unrealized losses on fixed maturities for which an allowance for credit losses ("]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[") 1 (1)
Change in net gain on cash flow hedging instruments 3 14 (25)
Change in foreign currency translation adjustments 9 4 (8)
Change in pension and other postretirement plan adjustments (45) (48) (23)
OCI, net of tax 1,118 1,631 (2,237)
Comprehensive income (loss) $ 2,855 $ 3,716 $ (430)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

129

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Balance Sheets

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------ ------- - ------
 As of December 31,
(in millions, except for share and per share data) 2020 2019
Assets
Investments:
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value (amortized cost of $41,561 and $40,078, and ACL of $23 and $—) $ 45,035 $ 42,148

Equity securities, at fair value 1,438 1,657

Mortgage loans (net of ACL of $38 and $—) 4,493 4,215

Limited partnerships and other alternative investments 2,082 1,758
Other investments 201 331
Short-term investments 3,283 2,921
Total investments 56,532 53,030
Cash 151 185
Restricted Cash 88 77
Premiums receivable and agents']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative to as hosted or cloud-based, software vendors, retailers, software developers and run on personal and server-based Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[' equity 18,556 16,270
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 74,111 $ 70,817

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

130

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders']:
Note 18. Segment Reporting We manufacture and market primarily snack food products, including biscuits (cookies, crackers and salted snacks), chocolate, gum & candy and various cheese & grocery products, as well as powdered beverage products. We manage our global business and report operating results through geographic units. We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise across our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions. Our operations and management structure are organized into four operating segments: *Latin America *AMEA *Europe *North America 124 We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze segment performance and trends. Segment operating income excludes unrealized gains and losses on hedging activities (which are a component of cost of sales), general corporate expenses (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses), amortization of intangible assets, gains and losses on divestitures and acquisition-related costs (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses) in all periods presented. We exclude these items from segment operating income in order to provide better transparency of our segment operating results. Furthermore, we centrally manage benefit plan non-service income and interest and other expense, net. Accordingly, we do not present these items by segment because they are excluded from the segment profitability measure that management reviews. Our segment net revenues and earnings, reflecting our current segment structure for all periods presented, were: ------------- -------------------------------- ------ ---- ----- ---- ------ ------ - ------ F...

['s updated guidance for hedge accounting through a cumulative effect adjustment of less than $1 to reclassify cumulative ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges from retained earnings to AOCI. The updates allow hedge accounting for new types of interest rate hedges of financial instruments and simplify documentation requirements to qualify for hedge accounting. In addition, any gain or loss from hedge ineffectiveness is reported in the same income statement line with the effective hedge results and the hedged transaction. For cash flow hedges, the ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings only when the hedged transaction affects earnings; otherwise, the ineffectiveness gains or losses remain in AOCI. Under previous accounting, total hedge ineffectiveness was reported separately in realized capital gains and losses apart from the hedged transaction. The adoption did not affect the Company’s financial position or cash flows or have a material effect on net income.
Leases
On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB’s updated lease guidance. Under the updated guidance, lessees with operating leases are required to recognize a liability for the present value of future minimum lease payments with a corresponding asset for the right of use of the property. Prior to the new guidance, future minimum lease payments on operating leases were commitments that were not recognized as liabilities on the balance sheet. Leases are classified as financing or operating leases. Where the lease is economically similar to a purchase because The Hartford obtains control of the underlying asset, the lease is classified as a financing lease and the Company recognizes amortization of the right of use asset and interest expense on the liability. Where the lease provides The Hartford with only the right to control the use of the underlying asset over the lease term and the lease term is greater than one year, the lease is an operating lease and the lease cost is recognized as rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis. Leases with a term of one year or less are also expensed over the lease term but not recognized on the balance sheet. On adoption, The Hartford recorded a lease payment obligation of $160 for outstanding leases and a right of use asset of $150, which is net of $10 in lease incentives received, with no change to comparative periods. As permitted by the new guidance, as of the implementation date, the Company did not reassess whether expired or existing contracts are leases or contain leases, did not change the classification of expired or existing operating leases, and did not reassess initial direct costs for existing leases to determine if deferred costs should be written-off or recorded on adoption. The adoption did not impact net income or cash flows.

134

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Goodwill
On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted the FASB']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[' balances, net of ACL 4,384 23 4,407
Reinsurance recoverables 5,641 5,641
ACL and allowance for disputed amounts on reinsurance recoverables (114) (2) (116)
Reinsurance recoverables, net of allowance for uncollectible reinsurance 5,527 (2) 5,525
Deferred income tax asset, net 299 5 304
Other liabilities (5,157) (25) (5,182)
Retained Earnings $ 12,685 $ (18) $ 12,667

Summary of Adoption Impacts

--------------------------------- - ----
Net increase to ACL and LCL $ (23)
Net tax effects 5
Net decrease to retained earnings $ (18)

Reference Rate Reform
On March 12, 2020, the Company adopted the FASB’s temporary guidance, which allows The Hartford to account for contract modifications made solely due to rate reform (such as replacing LIBOR with another reference rate) as continuations of existing contracts and to maintain hedge accounting when the hedging effectiveness between a financial instrument and its hedge is only affected by the change to a replacement rate. As a result, The Hartford will not recognize gains and losses during the transition period of LIBOR to an alternative reference rate that would otherwise have arisen from accounting assessments and remeasurements. The guidance expires for contract modifications made and hedge relationships entered into or evaluated after December 31, 2022. The Company is not required to measure the

135

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

effect of adoption on its financial position, cash flows or net income because the guidance provides relief from accounting for the effects of the change to a replacement rate.
Mortgage Loan Modification
In 2020, The Hartford adopted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) Section 4013, which allows financial institutions the option to suspend the requirement to disclose and account for loan modifications as troubled debt restructurings for loan modifications related to the COVID-19 pandemic occurring between March 1, 2020 and the earlier of 60 days after the end of the national emergency or January 1, 2022. The Company’s adoption of Section 4013 of the CARES Act had no impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows because The Hartford has not granted significant concessions to borrowers on its mortgage loans that would have been disclosed and accounted for as troubled debt restructurings.
Future Adoption of New Accounting Standards
Reserve for Future Policy Benefits
The FASB issued new guidance on accounting for long-duration insurance contracts. The Company’s long-duration insurance contracts include paid-up life insurance and whole-life insurance policies resulting from conversion from group life policies and run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities with total future policy benefit reserves of $638 as of December 31, 2020. Under existing guidance, a reserve for future policy benefits is calculated as the present value of future benefits and related expenses less the present value of any future premiums using assumptions “locked in” at the time the policies were issued, including discount rate, lapse rate, mortality, and expense assumptions. Under existing guidance, assumptions are only updated if there is an expected premium deficiency. The new guidance will require that underlying cash flow assumptions (such as for lapse rate, mortality and expenses) be reviewed and updated at least annually in the same quarter each year. The new guidance also requires that the discount rate assumption be updated each quarter and be based on an upper-medium grade (low-credit-risk) fixed-income investment yield. The change in the reserve estimate as a result of updating cash flow assumptions will be recognized in net income. The change in the reserve estimate as a result of updating the discount rate assumption will be recognized in other comprehensive income. Because reserves will be based on updated assumptions and no longer locked in at contract inception, there will no longer be a test for premium deficiency. The new guidance will be effective January 1, 2023, and will be applied to balances in place as of the earliest period presented. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet determined the method or timing for adoption or estimated the effect on the Company’s financial statements.

Significant Accounting Policies
The Company’s significant accounting policies are as follows:
Revenue Recognition
Premium Revenue from Direct Insurance and Assumed Reinsurance
Property and casualty premiums are earned on a pro rata basis over the policy period and include accruals for policies that have been written by agents but not yet reported to us, as well as ultimate premium revenue anticipated under auditable and retrospectively rated policies. We estimate the amount of premium not yet reported based on current and historical trends of the business being written. Such estimates are regularly reviewed and updated and any resulting adjustments are included in the current year']:
(4)Total contractual obligations exclude our gross unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties totaling $70.0 million as of November 30, 2020, because we are unable to make reasonable estimates as to the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. We are subject to the usual obligations associated with entering into contracts (including option contracts) for the purchase, development and sale of real estate in the routine conduct of our business. Option contracts for the purchase of land generally reduces our financial risk and costs of capital associated with land holdings. At November 30, 2020, we had access to 119,283 homesites through option contracts with third parties and unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2020, we had $414.2 million of non-refundable option deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to certain of these homesites and had posted $87.5 million of letters of credit in lieu of cash deposits under certain land and option contracts. At November 30, 2020, we had letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $1.0 billion (which included the $87.5 million of letters of credit discussed above). These letters of credit are generally posted either with regulatory bodies to guarantee our performance of certain development and construction activities, or in lieu of cash deposits on option contracts, for insurance risks, credit enhancements and as other collateral. Additionally, at November 30, 2020, we had outstanding surety bonds of $3.1 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. Although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all of the development and construction activities are completed. As of November 30, 2020, there were approximately $1.6...

[' balances and any related ACL are recorded in the period in which the balance is deemed uncollectible. Refer to Note 8 - Premiums Receivable and Agents']:
Note 8.Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable Our leases have original assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ------------ ----- ---- ----- - ----- December 31, 2020 2019 Finance lease cost Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 259 $ 195 Interest 14 12 Operating lease cost 1,391 1,139 Variable lease cost and other, net 269 160 Total lease cost $ 1,933 $ 1,506 Operating lease expense was $629 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 under Topic 840. 100 Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: ------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2020 2019 Weighted-average remaining lease term Operating leases 12.2 years 13.0 years Finance leases 14.9 years 15.3 years Weighted-average discount rate Operating leases 3.1 % 3.2 % Finance leases 2.9 % 3.1 % The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): ---------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2021 $ 1,300 $ 68 2022 1,394 51 2023 1,266 41 2024 1,163 41 2025 1,001 41 Thereafter 7,206 401 Total undiscounted cash flows 13,330 643 Less: Imputed interest (2,676) (120) Present value of lease liabilities $ 10,654 $ 523 Lease liabilities, current $ 1,023 $ 54 Lease liabilitie...

[") and exchange traded derivative instruments as part of its overall risk management strategy as well as to engage in income generation covered call transactions and replication transactions. The types of instruments may include swaps, caps, floors, forwards, futures and options to achieve the following Company-approved objectives:
•to hedge risk arising from interest rate, equity market, commodity market, credit spread and issuer default, price or currency exchange rates or volatility;
•to manage liquidity;
•to control transaction costs;
•to enter into income generation covered call transactions and synthetic replication transactions.
Interest rate and credit default swaps involve the periodic exchange of cash flows with other parties, at specified intervals, calculated using agreed upon rates or other financial variables and notional principal amounts. Generally, little to no cash or principal payments are exchanged at the inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap is entered into, the cash flow streams exchanged by the counterparties are equal in value.
The Company clears certain interest rate swap and credit default swap derivative transactions through central clearing houses. OTC-cleared derivatives require initial collateral at the inception of the trade in the form of cash or highly liquid securities, such as U.S. Treasuries and government agency investments. Central clearing houses also require additional cash as variation margin based on daily market value movements. For information on collateral, see the Derivative Collateral Arrangements section in Note 7 - Derivatives. In addition, OTC-cleared transactions include price alignment amounts either received or paid on the variation margin, which are reflected in realized capital gains and losses or, if characterized as interest, in net investment income.
Forward contracts are customized commitments that specify a rate of interest or currency exchange rate to be paid or received on an obligation beginning on a future start date and are typically settled in cash.
Financial futures are standardized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying instrument. Futures contracts trade on organized exchanges. Margin requirements for futures are met by pledging securities or cash, and changes in the futures’ contract values are settled daily in cash.
Option contracts grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right to either purchase from or sell to the issuer a financial instrument at a specified price, within a specified period or on a stated date. The contracts may reference commodities, which

grant the purchaser the right to either purchase from or sell to the issuer commodities at a specified price, within a specified period or on a stated date. Option contracts are typically settled in cash.
Foreign currency swaps exchange an initial principal amount in two currencies, agreeing to re-exchange the currencies at a future date, at an agreed upon exchange rate. There may also be a periodic exchange of payments at specified intervals calculated using the agreed upon rates and exchanged principal amounts.
The Company’s derivative transactions conducted in insurance company subsidiaries are used in strategies permitted under the derivative use plans required by the State of Connecticut, the State of Illinois and the State of New York insurance departments.
Accounting and Financial Statement Presentation of Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Derivative instruments are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value and are reported in Other Investments and Other Liabilities. For balance sheet presentation purposes, the Company has elected to offset the fair value amounts, income accruals, and related cash collateral receivables and payables of OTC derivative instruments executed in a legal entity and with the same counterparty or under a master netting agreement, which provides the Company with the legal right of offset.
On the date the derivative contract is entered into, the Company designates the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability (“fair value” hedge), (2) a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a forecasted transaction or of amounts to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (“cash flow” hedge), (3) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation (“net investment” hedge) or (4) held for other investment and/or risk management purposes, which primarily involve managing asset or liability related risks and do not qualify for hedge accounting. The Company currently does not designate any derivatives as fair value or net investment hedges.
Cash Flow Hedges - Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, including foreign-currency cash flow hedges, are recorded in AOCI and are reclassified into earnings when the variability of the cash flow of the hedged item impacts earnings. Gains and losses on derivative contracts that are reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings are included in the line item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are recorded. Periodic derivative net coupon settlements are recorded in the line item of the Consolidated Statements of Operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are recorded. Cash flows from cash flow hedges are presented in the same category as the cash flows from the items being hedged in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Other Investment and/or Risk Management Activities - The Company’s other investment and/or risk management activities primarily relate to strategies used to reduce economic risk or replicate permitted investments and do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Changes in the fair value, including periodic derivative net coupon settlements, of derivative instruments held for other investment and/or risk

138

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

management purposes are reported in current period earnings as net realized capital gains and losses.
Hedge Documentation and Effectiveness Testing
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, a derivative must be highly effective in mitigating the designated changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. At hedge inception, the Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. The documentation process includes linking derivatives that are designated as fair value, cash flow, or net investment hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions and defining the effectiveness testing methods to be used. The Company also formally assesses both at the hedge’s inception and ongoing on a quarterly basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been and are expected to continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values, cash flows or net investment in foreign operations of hedged items. Hedge effectiveness is assessed primarily using quantitative methods as well as using qualitative methods. Quantitative methods include regression or other statistical analysis of changes in fair value or cash flows associated with the hedge relationship. Qualitative methods may include comparison of critical terms of the derivative to the hedged item.
Discontinuance of Hedge Accounting
The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when (1) it is determined that the qualifying criteria are no longer met; (2) the derivative is no longer designated as a hedging instrument; or (3) the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised.
When cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued because the Company becomes aware that it is not probable that the forecasted transaction will occur, the derivative continues to be carried on the balance sheet at its fair value, and gains and losses that were accumulated in AOCI are recognized immediately in earnings.
In other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, including those where the derivative is sold, terminated or exercised, amounts previously deferred in AOCI are reclassified into earnings when earnings are impacted by the hedged item.
Embedded Derivatives
The Company purchases investments that contain embedded derivative instruments. When it is determined that (1) the embedded derivative possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract and (2) a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host for measurement purposes. The embedded derivative, which is reported with the host instrument in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, is carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in net realized capital gains and losses.
Credit Risk of Derivative Instruments
Credit risk is defined as the risk of financial loss due to uncertainty of an obligor’s or counterparty’s ability or willingness to meet its obligations in accordance with agreed upon terms. Credit exposures are measured using the market value of the

derivatives, resulting in amounts owed to the Company by its counterparties or potential payment obligations from the Company to its counterparties. The Company generally requires that OTC derivative contracts, other than certain forward contracts, be governed by International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements which are structured by legal entity and by counterparty, and permit right of offset. Some agreements require daily collateral settlement based upon agreed upon thresholds. For purposes of daily derivative collateral maintenance, credit exposures are generally quantified based on the prior business day’s market value and collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of, the Company to the extent the current value of the derivatives is greater than zero, subject to minimum transfer thresholds, if applicable. The Company also minimizes the credit risk of derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high quality counterparties primarily rated A or better, which are monitored and evaluated by the Company’s risk management team and reviewed by senior management. OTC-cleared derivatives are governed by clearing house rules. Transactions cleared through a central clearing house reduce risk due to their ability to require daily variation margin and act as an independent valuation source. In addition, the Company monitors counterparty credit exposure on a monthly basis to ensure compliance with Company policies and statutory limitations.
Cash and Restricted Cash
Cash represents cash on hand and demand deposits with banks or other financial institutions. Restrictions on cash primarily relate to funds that are held to support regulatory and contractual obligations.
Reinsurance
The Company cedes insurance to affiliated and unaffiliated insurers in order to limit its maximum losses and to diversify its exposures and provide statutory surplus relief. Such arrangements do not relieve the Company of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to the Company. The Company also assumes reinsurance from other insurers and is a member of and participates in reinsurance pools and associations. Assumed reinsurance refers to the Company’s acceptance of certain insurance risks that other insurance companies or pools have underwritten.
Reinsurance accounting is followed for ceded and assumed transactions that provide indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk (i.e. risk transfer). To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance agreement must include insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss to the reinsurer. If the ceded and assumed transactions do not meet risk transfer requirements, the Company accounts for these transactions as financing transactions.
Premiums, benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses reflect the net effects of ceded and assumed reinsurance transactions. Included in other assets are prepaid reinsurance premiums, which represent the portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers applicable to the unexpired terms of the reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance recoverables are balances due from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and are presented net of an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. Changes in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance are

139

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

reported in benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses in the Company']:
(7)Lennar Other 58 LENNAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) The assets and liabilities related to the Company's segments were as follows: -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2020 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,703,986 116,171 38,963 3,918 2,863,038 Restricted cash 15,211 54,481 -- -- 69,692 Receivables, net (1) 298,671 552,779 86,629 -- 938,079 Inventories 16,925,228 -- 249,920 -- 17,175,148 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,490,105 -- -- 1,490,105 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 72,626 -- -- 72,626 Investments held-to-maturity -- 164,230 -- -- 164,230 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- -- -- 53,497 53,497 Investments in unconsolidated entities 953,177 68,869 724,647 386,999 2,133,692 Goodwill 3,442,359 189,699 -- -- 3,632,058 Other assets (4) 1,190,793 68,027 75,749 8,443 1,343,012 $ 25,529,425 2,776,987 1,175,908 452,857 29,935,177 Liabilities: Notes and other debts payable, net $ 5,955,758 1,463,919 -- 1,906 7,421,583 Other liabilities 3,969,893 180,329 252,911 11,060 4,414,193 $ 9,925,651 1,644,248 252,911 12,966 11,835,776 -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2019 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,200,832 234,113 8,711 2,340 1,445,996 Restricted cash 9,698 12,022 -- 975 22,695 Receivables, net (1) 329,124 500,847 76,906 -- 906,877 Inventories 17,776,507 -- 315,107 -- 18,091,614 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,644,939 -- -- 1,644,939 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 73,867 -- -- 73,867 Investments held-to-maturity -- 190,289 -- 54,117 244,406 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- 3...

['s current taxable income and its income before tax under generally accepted accounting principles in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For deferred tax assets, the Company records a valuation allowance that is adequate to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an amount that will more likely than not be realized.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost to acquire a business over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that a triggering event for a potential impairment has occurred. Prior to January 1, 2020, the goodwill impairment test followed a two-step process. In the first step, the fair value of a reporting unit was compared to its carrying value. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. The Company’s reporting units, for which goodwill has been allocated consist of Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Group Benefits, and Hartford Funds. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeded its fair value, the second step of the impairment test was performed for purposes of measuring the impairment. In the second step, the fair value of the reporting unit was allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit to determine an implied goodwill value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeded the implied goodwill value, an impairment loss was recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Effective January 1, 2020, the goodwill impairment test is based on the first step only and, as such, goodwill is impaired up to the amount that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value. For further information, see Adoption of New Accounting Standards - Goodwill discussion above.
Management’s determination of the fair value of each reporting unit incorporates multiple inputs into discounted cash flow calculations, including assumptions that market participants would make in valuing the reporting unit. Assumptions include levels of economic capital required to support the business, future business growth, earnings projections, the weighted average cost of capital used for purposes of discounting and, for the Hartford Funds segment, assets under management. Decreases in business growth, decreases in earnings projections and increases in the weighted average cost of capital will all cause a reporting unit’s fair value to decrease, increasing the possibility of impairments.
Intangible Assets
Acquired intangible assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets include purchased customer relationship and agency or other distribution rights and licenses measured at fair value at acquisition. The Company amortizes finite-lived other intangible assets over their useful lives generally on a straight-line basis over the period of expected benefit, ranging from 1 to 15 years. Management revises amortization periods if it believes there has

140

----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

been a change in the length of time that an intangible asset will continue to have value. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization. Intangible assets are assessed for impairment generally when events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment and at least annually for indefinite-lived intangibles. Finite-lived intangible assets are impaired if the carrying amount is not recoverable from undiscounted cash flows. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired if the carrying amount exceeds fair value. Impaired intangible assets are written down to fair value.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment, which includes capitalized software, is carried at cost net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of the various classes of property and equipment and is recognized principally on the straight-line method. Accumulated depreciation was $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Depreciation expense was $313, $283, and $232 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses
For property and casualty and group life and disability insurance and assumed reinsurance products, the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims under insurance policies written by the Company. These reserves include estimates for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported ("]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s Consolidated Statements of Operations in the Commercial Lines reporting segment with revenues of $1.0 billion and net losses of $167 during the period from the acquisition date to December 31, 2019, including the $91 before tax ($72 net of tax) of premium paid for the Navigators ADC, a charge of $97 before tax ($77 net of tax) for the increase in acquired reserves following the acquisition, a charge of $16 before tax ($13 net of tax) for the deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance and net investment income of $67 before tax ($54 net of tax). During 2020, the Company increased reserves subject to the Navigators

143

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 2 - Business Acquisitions

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

ADC by an additional $102 before tax ($81 net of tax) which was recognized as an increase to deferred gain within incurred losses. See Note 12 - Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses, for additional information.
The Company recognized $17 of acquisition related costs for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. These costs are included in insurance operating costs and other expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The following table presents supplemental unaudited pro forma amounts of revenue and net income for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 for the Company as though the business was acquired on January 1, 2018. Pro forma adjustments include the revenue and earnings of Navigators Group for each period as well as amortization of identifiable intangible assets acquired.

Pro Forma Results for the Year Ended December 31

------------------------------------------------ ------- -------- - -----
 Revenue Earnings
2019 Supplemental (unaudited) combined pro forma $ 21,416 $ 2,080
2018 Supplemental (unaudited) combined pro forma $ 20,398 $ 1,828

3. EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE
Computation of Basic and Diluted Earnings per Common Share

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(In millions, except for per share data) 2020 2019 2018
Earnings

Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1,737 $ 2,085 $ 1,485
Less: Preferred stock dividends 21 21 6
Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders 1,716 2,064 1,479

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders — — 322

Net income available to common stockholders $ 1,716 $ 2,064 $ 1,801
Shares
Weighted average common shares outstanding, basic 358.3 360.9 358.4
Dilutive effect of warrants [1] — 0.5 1.9
Dilutive effect of stock-based awards under compensation plans 2.3 3.5 3.8

Weighted average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares [2] 360.6 364.9 364.1
Earnings per common share
Basic
Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 4.13
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders — — 0.90
Net income available to common stockholders $ 4.79 $ 5.72 $ 5.03
Diluted
Income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.06
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders — — 0.89
Net income available to common stockholders $ 4.76 $ 5.66 $ 4.95

[1]On June 26, 2019 the Capital Purchase Program warrants issued in 2009 expired.
[2]For additional information, see Note 16 - Equity and Note 20 - Stock Compensation Plans.

Basic earnings per common share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per common share includes the dilutive effect of assumed exercise or issuance of warrants and stock-based awards under compensation plans.
In periods where a loss from continuing operations available to common stockholders or net loss available to common stockholders is recognized, inclusion of incremental dilutive shares would be antidilutive. Due to the antidilutive impact, such shares are excluded from the diluted earnings per share

calculation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders and net income (loss) available to common stockholders in such periods.
Under the treasury stock method, for warrants and stock-based awards, shares are assumed to be issued and then reduced for the number of shares repurchasable with theoretical proceeds at the average market price for the period. Contingently issuable shares are included for the number of shares issuable assuming the end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period, if dilutive.

144

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 4 - Segment Information

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company conducts business principally in five reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property & Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds, as well as a Corporate category.
Over 95% of the Company’s revenues are generated in the United States (“U.S.”). The remaining revenues are generated in Europe and other international locations.
We report our results of operations consistent with the manner in which our chief operating decision maker ("]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users independent for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

["). In addition, Corporate includes a 9.7% ownership interest in the legal entity that acquired the life and annuity business sold in 2018. For further discussion of continued involvement in the life and annuity business sold, see Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
Financial Measures and Other Segment Information
Certain transactions between segments occur during the year that primarily relate to tax settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements, services provided, investment transfers and capital contributions. In addition, certain inter-segment transactions occur that relate to interest income on allocated surplus. Consolidated net investment income is unaffected by such transactions.

145

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 4 - Segment Information

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Revenues

--------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------ ------ - ------ - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Earned premiums and fee income:
Commercial Lines
Workers’ compensation $ 3,034 $ 3,314 $ 3,341
Liability 1,401 1,064 653
Marine 251 147 —
Package business 1,540 1,471 1,364
Property 793 728 618
Professional liability 595 447 254
Bond 274 261 241
Assumed reinsurance 298 180 —
Automobile 754 713 610
Total Commercial Lines 8,940 8,325 7,081
Personal Lines
Automobile 2,081 2,248 2,398
Homeowners 961 987 1,041
Total Personal Lines [1] 3,042 3,235 3,439
Property & Casualty Other Operations — 2 —
Group Benefits
Group disability 2,832 2,828 2,746
Group life 2,434 2,521 2,611
Other 270 254 241
Total Group Benefits 5,536 5,603 5,598
Hartford Funds
Mutual fund and ETP 903 907 932
Talcott Resolution life and annuity separate accounts [2] 86 92 100
Total Hartford Funds 989 999 1,032
Corporate 58 60 32
Total earned premiums and fee income 18,565 18,224 17,182

Total net investment income 1,846 1,951 1,780
Net realized capital gains (losses) (14) 395 (112)
Other revenues 126 170 105
Total revenues $ 20,523 $ 20,740 $ 18,955

[1]For 2020, 2019 and 2018, AARP members accounted for earned premiums of $2.8 billion, $2.9 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively.
[2]Represents revenues earned on the life and annuity separate account AUM sold in May 2018 that is still managed by the Company']:
Note 9. Debt and Borrowing Arrangements Short-Term Borrowings: Our short-term borrowings and related weighted-average interest rates consisted of: --------------------------- ------------------ -- --------------------- --- ----------------- - --------------------- ----- ----- --- - --- - As of December 31, 2020 2019 AmountOutstanding Weighted-Average Rate AmountOutstanding Weighted-Average Rate (in millions) (in millions) Commercial paper $ -- -- % $ 2,581 2.0 % Bank loans 29 4.8 % 57 5.2 % Total short-term borrowings $ 29 $ 2,638 We repaid all outstanding commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 2020 using the proceeds from net issuances of long-term debt, proceeds from sales of KDP and JDEP shares and operating cash flows. 98 Our uncommitted credit lines and committed credit lines available as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 include: ----------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------------- - --------------- -- --------------- - ----- - -- As of December 31, 2020 2019 Facility Amount Borrowed Amount Facility Amount Borrowed Amount (in millions) Uncommitted credit facilities $ 1,487 $ 29 $ 1,685 $ 57 Credit facility expiry(1): February 26, 2020 -- -- 1,500 -- February 24, 2021 1,500 -- -- -- February 27, 2024 4,500 -- 4,500 -- (1) We maintain a multi-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, including working capital needs, and to support our commercial paper program. The revolving credit agreement includes a covenant that we maintain a minimum shareholders' equity of at least $24.6 billion, excluding accumulated other comprehensive earnings/(losses), the cumulative effects of any changes in accounting principles and earnings/(losses) recognized in connection with the ongoing application of any mark-to-market accounting for pensions and other retirement plans. At December 31, 2020, we complied with this covenant as our shareholders' equity, as defined by the covenant, was $38.3 billion. The revolving credit...

['s level 3 derivatives were less than $1 and are excluded from the table.
[2]The weighted average is determined based on the fair value of the derivatives.
[3]Conversely, the impact of a decrease in input would have the opposite impact to the fair value as that presented in the table. Changes are based on long positions, unless otherwise noted. Changes in fair value will be inversely impacted for short positions.

The tables above exclude certain securities for which fair values are predominately based on independent broker quotes. While the Company does not have access to the significant unobservable inputs that independent brokers may use in their pricing process, the Company believes brokers likely use inputs similar to those used by the Company and third-party pricing

services to price similar instruments. As such, in their pricing models, cause fair values to decrease. For

152

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

the year ended December 31, 2020, no significant adjustments were made by the Company to broker prices received.

Contingent Consideration
The acquisition of Lattice Strategies LLC ("]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Workfront Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.50 billion in cash consideration. The initial purchase accounting for this transaction has not yet been completed given the short period of time between the acquisition date and issuance of these financial statements. Workfront will be integrated into our Digital Experience reportable segment for financial reporting purposes in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 79 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42 million, which represents the difference between the $55 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $126 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $45 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remain...

[") over a period of four years beginning on the date of acquisition. The contingent consideration was measured at fair value on a quarterly basis by projecting future eligible ETP AUM over the contingency period to estimate the amount of expected payout. The future expected payout had been discounted back to the valuation date using a risk-adjusted discount rate of 10.0%. The risk-adjusted discount rate is an internally generated and significant unobservable input to fair value.
In January 2020, we made a third payment of $10 after Lattice AUM reached $3.0 billion. Given the dramatic market declines and outflow in March, 2020, Lattice AUM declined to $2.3 billion as of March 30, 2020 and the Company reduced the remaining contingent consideration liability to zero, recognizing an $11.9

before tax reduction in expense in first quarter 2020. The earn out period ended on July 29, 2020 with no additional consideration payable.
Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using Significant Unobservable Inputs
The Company uses derivative instruments to manage the risk associated with certain assets and liabilities. However, the derivative instrument may not be classified within the same fair value hierarchy level as the associated asset or liability. Therefore, the realized and unrealized gains and losses on derivatives reported in the Level 3 rollforward may be offset by realized and unrealized gains and losses of the associated assets and liabilities in other line items of the financial statements.

153

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Fair Value Rollforwards for Financial Instruments Classified as Level 3 for the Year Ended December 31, 2020

-------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------- --------- ----------- ----- -------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ---- ----- ----- ----- --- - - - - - ---- - - -
 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses)
 Fair value as of January 1, 2020 Included in net income [1] Included in OCI [2] Purchases Settlements Sales Transfers into Level 3 [3] Transfers out of Level 3 [3] Fair value as of December 31, 2020
Assets
Fixed Maturities, AFS
 ABS $ 15 $ — $ (1) $ 43 $ — $ — $ — $ (57) $ —
 CLOs 95 — 1 389 (43) — — (82) 360
 CMBS 9 — 3 79 (5) — 13 (22) 77
 Corporate 732 (31) 31 272 (143) (36) 486 (430) 881
 Foreign Govt./Govt. Agencies 3 — — 6 — — — (3) 6
 Municipal — (3) 2 — — (6) 7 — —
 RMBS 560 — (11) 66 (182) (7) — (45) 381
Total Fixed Maturities, AFS 1,414 (34) 25 855 (373) (49) 506 (639) 1,705

Equity Securities, at fair value 73 (10) — 6 — — 1 — 70

Short-term investments 15 — — 30 (15) — — — 30
Total Assets 1,502 (44) 25 891 (388) (49) 507 (639) 1,805
Liabilities
Derivatives, net [4]
 Equity (15) 36 — — (21) — — — —
Total Derivatives, net [4] (15) 36 — — (21) — — — —
Contingent Consideration (22) 12 — — 10 — — — —
Total Liabilities $ (37) $ 48 $ — $ — $ (11) $ — $ — $ — $ —

154

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Fair Value Rollforwards for Financial Instruments Classified as Level 3 for the Year Ended December 31, 2019

-------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------- --------- ----------- ----- -------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----- ---- -- -- ----- ----- ----- ---- - - - - - ---- - ---- --
 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses)
 Fair value as of January 1, 2019 Included in net income [1] Included in OCI [2] Purchases Settlements Sales Transfers into Level 3 [3] Transfers out of Level 3 [3] Fair value as of December 31, 2019
Assets
Fixed Maturities, AFS
 ABS $ 10 $ — $ — $ 20 $ (1) $ — $ — $ (14) $ 15
 CLOs 100 — — 329 (127) (6) — (201) 95
 CMBS 12 — 1 34 (4) — — (34) 9
 Corporate 520 (4) 16 354 (59) (88) 61 (68) 732
 Foreign Govt./Govt. Agencies 3 — — — — — — — 3

 RMBS 920 1 (8) 134 (214) (35) — (238) 560
Total Fixed Maturities, AFS 1,565 (3) 9 871 (405) (129) 61 (555) 1,414

Equity Securities, at fair value 77 — — 9 — (13) — — 73
Derivatives, net [4]

 Interest rate 1 (1) — — — — — — —

Total Derivatives, net [4] 1 (1) — — — — — — —
Short-term investments — — — 15 — — — — 15
Total Assets 1,643 (4) 9 895 (405) (142) 61 (555) 1,502
Liabilities
Derivatives, net [4]
 Equity 3 (18) — — — — — — (15)
Total Derivatives, net [4] 3 (18) — — — — — — (15)

Contingent Considerations (35) (7) — — 20 — — — (22)
Total Liabilities $ (32) $ (25) $ — $ — $ 20 $ — $ — $ — $ (37)

[1]Amounts in these columns are generally reported in net realized capital gains (losses). All amounts are before income taxes.
[2]All amounts are before income taxes.
[3]Transfers in and/or (out) of Level 3 are primarily attributable to the availability of market observable information and the re-evaluation of the observability of pricing inputs. Transfers into and out of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2020, were primarily related to private securities that were priced using internal matrix pricing in the prior period, but changed to broker pricing in the current period and inversely, private securities that were priced using broker pricing in the prior period, but changed to internal matrix pricing in the current period.
[4]Derivative instruments are reported in this table on a net basis for asset (liability) positions and reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other investments and other liabilities.

155

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Changes in Unrealized Gains (Losses) for Financial Instruments Classified as Level 3 Still Held at Year End

-------------------------------- ---------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------- ---- -- --- - - - -
 December 31,
 2020 2019
 Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in Net Income [1] [2] Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in OCI [3] Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in Net Income [1] [2] Changes in Unrealized Gain/(Loss) included in OCI [3]
Assets
Fixed Maturities, AFS

 CLOs $ — $ 1 $ — $ —
 CMBS — 4 — 1
 Corporate (21) 24 (2) 15
 Foreign Govt./Govt. Agencies — — — 1

 RMBS — (10) — (7)
Total Fixed Maturities, AFS (21) 19 (2) 10

Equity Securities, at fair value (9) — 1 —
Derivatives, net

 Equity — — (18) —
 Interest rate — — (1) —

Total Derivatives, net — — (19) —
Total Assets (30) 19 (20) 10
Liabilities
Contingent Consideration 12 — (7) —
Total Liabilities $ 12 $ — $ (7) $ —

[1]All amounts in these rows are reported in net realized capital gains (losses). All amounts are before income taxes.
[2]Amounts presented are for Level 3 only and therefore may not agree to other disclosures included herein.
[3]Changes in unrealized gain (loss) on fixed maturities, AFS are reported in changes in net unrealized gain on securities in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. Changes in interest rate derivatives are reported in changes in net gain on cash flow hedging instruments in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value
Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Carried at Fair Value

--------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------- ----------------- -------------------------- ------------------- ---------- ------- - ----- - -----
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Fair Value Hierarchy Level Carrying Amount [1] Fair Value Fair Value Hierarchy Level Carrying Amount [1] Fair Value
Assets

Mortgage loans Level 3 $ 4,493 $ 4,792 Level 3 $ 4,215 $ 4,350
Liabilities
Other policyholder funds and benefits payable Level 3 $ 701 $ 703 Level 3 $ 763 $ 765
Senior notes [2] Level 2 $ 3,262 $ 4,363 Level 2 $ 3,759 $ 4,456
Junior subordinated debentures [2] Level 2 $ 1,090 $ 1,107 Level 2 $ 1,089 $ 1,153

[1] As of December 31, 2020, carrying amount of mortgage loans is net of ACL of $38.
[2] Included in long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, except for current maturities, which are included in short-term debt.

156

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
6. INVESTMENTS
Net Investment Income

------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ---- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(Before tax) 2020 2019 2018
Fixed maturities [1] $ 1,442 $ 1,559 $ 1,459
Equity securities 39 46 32
Mortgage loans 172 165 141

Limited partnerships and other alternative investments 222 232 205
Other investments [2] 42 32 20
Investment expenses (71) (83) (77)

Total net investment income $ 1,846 $ 1,951 $ 1,780

[1]Includes net investment income on short-term investments.
[2]Primarily includes changes in fair value of certain equity fund investments and income from derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting and are used to hedge fixed maturities.
Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
(Before tax) 2020 2019 2018
Gross gains on sales $ 255 $ 234 $ 114
Gross losses on sales (50) (56) (172)
Equity securities [1] (214) 254 (48)
Net credit losses on fixed maturities, AFS [2] (28)
Change in ACL on mortgage loans [3] (19)

Intent-to-sell impairments (5) — —
Net OTTI losses recognized in earnings (3) (1)
Valuation allowances on mortgage loans 1 —

Other, net [4] 47 (35) (5)
Net realized capital gains (losses) $ (14) $ 395 $ (112)

[1] The net unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities included in net realized capital gains (losses) related to equity securities still held as of December 31, 2020, were $53 for the year-ended December 31, 2020. The net unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities included in net realized capital gains (losses) related to equity securities still held as of December 31, 2019, were $164 for the year-ended December 31, 2019. The net unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities included in net realized capital gains (losses) related to equity securities still held as of December 31, 2018, were $(80) for the year-ended December 31, 2018.
[2]Due to the adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020, realized capital losses previously reported as OTTI are now presented as credit losses which are net of any recoveries. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[3] Represents the change in ACL recorded during the period following the adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[4]Includes gains (losses) on non-qualifying derivatives for 2020, 2019, and 2018 of $104, $(24), and $(12), respectively, gains (losses) from transactional foreign currency revaluation of $(1), $(9) and $1, respectively, and a loss of $48 from the sale of the Continental Europe Operations for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Sales of AFS Securities

--------------------- -------------------------------- ------ ---- - ------ - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Fixed maturities, AFS
Sale proceeds $ 15,059 $ 14,421 $ 21,327
Gross gains $ 254 $ 233 $ 90
Gross losses $ (50) $ (56) $ (169)

Sales of AFS securities in 2020 were primarily a result of tactical changes to the portfolio driven by changing market conditions and to a lesser extent duration and liquidity management.

Accrued Interest Receivable on Fixed Maturities, AFS and Mortgage Loans
As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the Company reported accrued interest receivable related to fixed maturities, AFS of $327 and $334, respectively, and accrued interest receivable related to mortgage loans of $14 and $14, respectively. These amounts are recorded in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are not included in the carrying value of the fixed maturities or mortgage loans. The Company does not include the current accrued interest receivable balance when estimating the ACL. The Company has a policy to write-off accrued interest receivable balances that are more than 90 days past due. Write-offs of accrued interest receivable are recorded as a credit loss component of net realized capital gains and losses.

157

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Interest income on fixed maturities and mortgage loans is accrued unless it is past due over 90 days or management deems the interest uncollectible.
Recognition and Presentation of Intent-to-Sell Impairments and ACL on Fixed Maturities, AFS
The Company will record an "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Domestic $ 1,090 $ 438 $ 543 Foreign 3,086 2,767 2,251 Income before income taxes $ 4,176 $ 3,205 $ 2,794 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ---- ---- --- ----- - --- (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Current: United States federal $ 119 $ 7 $ 501 Foreign 222 211 140 State and local 79 31 29 Total current 420 249 670 Deferred: United States federal (123) 23 (466) Foreign (1,313) (12) (10) State and local (68) (6) 9 Total deferred (1,504) 5 (467) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (1,084) $ 254 $ 203 92 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights will be recognized over the period of economic benefit. U.S. Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("U.S. Tax Act") was enacted into law, which significantly c...

["), average cumulative collateral loss rates that vary by vintage year, prepayment speeds, and property may include estimating the underlying collateral value.
Prior to January 1, 2020, the Company recorded an OTTI loss on fixed maturities for which the Company did not expect to recover the entire amortized income over the estimated remaining life of the security.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- --------- ----- - --- - --
ACL on Fixed Maturities, AFS by Type
 Year ended 2020
(Before tax) Corporate Municipal Total
Balance, beginning of year $ — $ — $ —
Credit losses on fixed maturities where an allowance was not previously recorded 36 3 39

Reduction due to sales (4) (3) (7)

Net increases (decreases) on fixed maturities where an allowance was previously recorded (9) — (9)

Balance as of end of period $ 23 $ — $ 23

158

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- --- - ----
Cumulative Credit Impairments on Fixed Maturities, AFS
 For the years ended December 31,
(Before tax) 2019 2018
Balance as of beginning of period $ (19) $ (25)
Additions for credit impairments recognized on [1]:
Fixed maturities not previously impaired (3) —
Fixed maturities previously impaired — (1)
Reductions for credit impairments previously recognized on:
Fixed maturities that matured or were sold during the period 3 7

Balance as of end of period $ (19) $ (19)

[1]These additions are included in the net OTTI losses recognized in earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Fixed Maturities, AFS

------------------------------ ----------------- - ---
Fixed Maturities, AFS, by Type
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 AmortizedCost ACL [1] GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Non-CreditOTTI [2]
ABS $ 1,525 $ — $ 39 $ — $ 1,564 $ 1,461 $ 18 $ (3) $ 1,476 $ —
CLOs 2,780 — 7 (7) 2,780 2,186 5 (8) 2,183 —
CMBS 4,219 — 286 (21) 4,484 4,210 141 (13) 4,338 (4)
Corporate 18,401 (23) 1,926 (31) 20,273 16,435 986 (25) 17,396 —
Foreign govt./govt. agencies 842 — 77 — 919 1,057 66 — 1,123 —
Municipal 8,564 — 940 (1) 9,503 8,763 737 (2) 9,498 —
RMBS 3,966 — 144 (3) 4,107 4,775 97 (3) 4,869 —
U.S. Treasuries 1,264 — 141 — 1,405 1,191 75 (1) 1,265 —
Total fixed maturities, AFS $ 41,561 $ (23) $ 3,560 $ (63) $ 45,035 $ 40,078 $ 2,125 $ (55) $ 42,148 $ (4)

[1]Represents the ACL recorded following the adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[2]Represents the amount of cumulative non-credit impairment losses recognized in OCI on fixed maturities that also had credit impairments. These losses are included in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2019.
Fixed Maturities, AFS, by Contractual Maturity Year

------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- -------------- ---------- ------ ------ ------ - ------
 December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019
 Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value
One year or less $ 1,411 $ 1,432 $ 1,082 $ 1,090
Over one year through five years 7,832 8,286 7,200 7,401
Over five years through ten years 7,622 8,354 7,395 7,803
Over ten years 12,206 14,028 11,769 12,988
Subtotal 29,071 32,100 27,446 29,282
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities 12,490 12,935 12,632 12,866
Total fixed maturities, AFS $ 41,561 $ 45,035 $ 40,078 $ 42,148

Estimated maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment provisions. Due to the potential for variability in payment speeds (i.e. prepayments or extensions), mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are not categorized by contractual maturity.

Concentration of Credit Risk
The Company aims to maintain a diversified investment portfolio including issuer, sector and geographic stratification, where applicable, and has established certain exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures to mitigate credit risk. The Company had no investment exposure to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of

159

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

the Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[' equity, other than the U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies as of December 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies, the Company’s three largest exposures by issuer were Apple Inc., the IBM Corporation, and the New York State Dormitory Authority each of which comprised less than 1% of total invested assets. As of December 31, 2019, other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies, the Company’s three largest exposures by issuer were the Government of the United Kingdom, the New York State

Dormitory Authority, and Wells Fargo & Company each of which comprised less than 1% of total invested assets. The Company’s three largest exposures by sector as of December 31, 2020 were the municipal sector, the financial services sector, and the CMBS sector which comprised approximately 17%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of total invested assets. The Company’s three largest exposures by sector as of December 31, 2019 were the municipal, RMBS, and CMBS sectors which comprised approximately 18%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of total invested assets.
Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturities, AFS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------- ---- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------------- - ----- ---- - ----- - ----
Unrealized Loss Aging for Fixed Maturities, AFS by Type and Length of Time as of December 31, 2020
 Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or More Total
 Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses
ABS $ 44 $ — $ — $ — $ 44 $ —
CLOs 758 (2) 715 (5) 1,473 (7)
CMBS 410 (17) 19 (4) 429 (21)
Corporate 466 (13) 212 (18) 678 (31)
Foreign govt./govt. agencies 24 — — — 24 —
Municipal 34 (1) — — 34 (1)
RMBS 461 (3) 21 — 482 (3)
U.S. Treasuries 39 — — — 39 —
Total fixed maturities, AFS in an unrealized loss position $ 2,236 $ (36) $ 967 $ (27) $ 3,203 $ (63)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ----------------- --- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------------- - ----- ---- - ----- - ----
Unrealized Loss Aging for Fixed Maturities, AFS by Type and Length of Time as of December 31, 2019
 Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or More Total
 Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses
ABS $ 398 $ (3) $ 9 $ — $ 407 $ (3)
CLOs 679 (2) 923 (6) 1,602 (8)
CMBS 538 (7) 20 (6) 558 (13)
Corporate 789 (9) 328 (16) 1,117 (25)
Foreign govt./govt. agencies 101 — 29 — 130 —
Municipal 222 (2) — — 222 (2)
RMBS 614 (3) 68 — 682 (3)
U.S. Treasuries 88 — 34 (1) 122 (1)
Total fixed maturities, AFS in an unrealized loss position $ 3,429 $ (26) $ 1,411 $ (29) $ 4,840 $ (55)

As of December 31, 2020, fixed maturities, AFS in an unrealized loss position consisted of 547 instruments, primarily in the corporate sectors, most notably travel, leisure, gaming, energy and financial services issuers, and CMBS which were depressed largely due to widening of credit spreads since the purchase date. As of December 31, 2020, 95% of these fixed maturities were depressed less than 20% of cost or amortized cost. The increase in gross unrealized losses during 2020 was primarily attributable to wider credit spreads within higher yielding corporates and CMBS.

Most of the fixed maturities depressed for twelve months or more relate to the corporate sector. Corporate fixed maturities were primarily depressed because current market spreads are wider than at the respective purchase dates, with certain securities also depressed because of their variable-rate coupons and long-dated maturities. The Company neither has an intention to sell nor does it expect to be required to sell the fixed maturities outlined in the preceding discussion. The decision to record credit losses on fixed maturities, AFS in the form of an ACL requires us to make qualitative and quantitative estimates of expected future cash flows. Given the uncertainty about the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on issuers of these securities, actual cash flows could ultimately deviate significantly from our expectations resulting in realized losses in future periods.

160

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 6 - Investments

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Mortgage Loans

ACL on Mortgage Loans
The Company reviews mortgage loans on a quarterly basis to estimate the ACL with changes in the ACL recorded in net realized capital gains and losses. Apart from an ACL recorded on individual mortgage loans where the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, the Company records an ACL on the pool of mortgage loans based on lifetime expected credit losses. The Company utilizes a third-party forecasting model to estimate lifetime expected credit losses at a loan level under multiple economic scenarios. The scenarios use macroeconomic data provided by an internationally recognized economics firm that generates forecasts of varying economic factors such as GDP growth, unemployment and interest rates. The economic scenarios are projected over 10 years. The first two to four years of the 10-year period assume a specific modeled economic scenario (including moderate upside, moderate recession and severe recession scenarios) and then revert to historical long-term assumptions over the remaining period. Using these economic scenarios, the forecasting model projects property-specific operating income and capitalization rates used to estimate the value of a future operating income stream. The operating income and the property valuations derived from capitalization rates are compared to loan payment and principal amounts to create debt service coverage ratios ("]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive plan or arrangement

['s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Other Collateral Transactions
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company pledged collateral of $34 and $37, respectively, of U.S. government securities and municipal securities or cash primarily related to certain bank loan participations committed to through a limited partnership agreement. These amounts also include collateral related to letters of credit.
For disclosure of collateral in support of derivative transactions, refer to the Derivative Collateral Arrangements section in Note 7 - Derivatives.
Other Restricted Investments
The Company is required by law to deposit securities with government agencies in certain states in which it conducts business. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair value of securities on deposit was $2.6 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively.
In addition, as of December 31, 2020, the Company held fixed maturities and short-term investments of $661 and $26, respectively, in trust for the benefit of syndicate policyholders, held fixed maturities of $175 in a Lloyd']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s Consolidated Balance Sheets and is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. For further discussion on Hopmeadow Holdings LP, see Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
The Company recognized total equity method income of $244, $267, and $214 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Equity method income is reported in net investment income, except amounts related to strategic investments classified in other assets which are reported in other revenues. For investments accounted for under the equity method, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2020 is limited to the total carrying value of $2.0 billion. In addition, the Company has outstanding commitments totaling $804 to fund limited partnership investments as of December 31, 2020. The Company’s investments accounted for under the equity method are generally of a passive nature in that the Company does not take an active role in the management.
In 2020, aggregate investment income from investments accounted for under the equity method exceeded 10% of the Company’s pre-tax consolidated net income (loss). Accordingly, the Company is disclosing aggregated, summarized financial data for the Company’s investments accounted for under the equity method. This aggregated, summarized financial data does not represent the Company’s proportionate share of investees']:
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 125

['s derivatives satisfy hedge accounting requirements as outlined in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies. Typically, these hedging instruments include interest rate swaps and, to a lesser extent, foreign currency swaps where the terms or expected cash flows of the hedged item closely match the terms of the swap. The interest rate swaps are typically used to manage interest rate duration of certain fixed maturity securities or debt instruments issued.
Cash Flow Hedges
Interest rate swaps are predominantly used to manage portfolio duration and better match cash receipts from assets with cash disbursements required to fund liabilities. These derivatives primarily convert interest receipts on variable-rate fixed maturity securities to fixed rates. The Company has also entered into interest rate swaps to convert the variable interest payments on 3 month LIBOR + 2.125% junior subordinated debt to fixed interest payments. For further information, see the Junior Subordinated Debentures section within Note 14 - Debt.
Foreign currency swaps are used to convert foreign currency-denominated cash flows related to certain investment receipts to U.S. dollars in order to reduce cash flow fluctuations due to changes in currency rates.
The Company also previously entered into forward starting swap agreements to hedge the interest rate exposure related to the future purchase of fixed-rate securities, primarily to hedge interest rate risk inherent in the assumptions used to price certain group benefits liabilities.
Non-qualifying Strategies
Derivative relationships that do not qualify for hedge accounting (“non-qualifying strategies”) primarily include hedging and replication strategies that utilize credit default swaps. In addition, hedges of interest rate, foreign currency and equity risk of certain fixed maturities and equities do not qualify for hedge accounting. The non-qualifying strategies include:
Credit Contracts
Credit default swaps are used to purchase credit protection on an individual entity or referenced index to economically hedge

against default risk and credit-related changes in the value of fixed maturity securities. Credit default swaps are also used to assume credit risk related to an individual entity or referenced index as a part of replication transactions. These contracts require the Company to pay or receive a periodic fee in exchange for compensation from the counterparty or the Company should the referenced security issuers experience a credit event, as defined in the contract. In addition, the Company enters into credit default swaps to terminate existing credit default swaps, thereby offsetting the changes in value of the original swap going forward.
Interest Rate Swaps, Swaptions and Futures
The Company uses interest rate swaps, swaptions and futures to manage interest rate duration between assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swaps to terminate existing swaps, thereby offsetting the changes in value of the original swap going forward. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the notional amount of interest rate swaps in offsetting relationships was $7.6 billion.
Foreign Currency Swaps and Forwards
The Company enters into foreign currency swaps to convert the foreign currency exposures of certain foreign currency-denominated fixed maturity investments to U.S. dollars. The Company may at times enter into foreign currency forwards to hedge non-U.S. dollar denominated cash or equity securities.
Equity Index Options
The Company enters into equity index options to hedge the impact of a decline in the equity markets on the investment portfolio. The Company also enters into covered call options on equity securities to generate additional return.
Derivative Balance Sheet Classification
For reporting purposes, the Company has elected to offset within assets or liabilities based upon the net of the fair value amounts, income accruals, and related cash collateral receivables and payables of OTC derivative instruments executed in a legal entity and with the same counterparty under a master netting agreement, which provides the Company with the legal right of offset. The following fair value amounts do not include income accruals or related cash collateral receivables and payables, which are netted with derivative fair value amounts to determine balance sheet presentation. The Company’s derivative instruments are held for risk management purposes, unless otherwise noted in the following table. The notional amount of derivative contracts represents the basis upon which pay or receive amounts are calculated and is presented in the table to quantify the volume of the Company’s derivative activity. Notional amounts are not necessarily reflective of credit risk.

165

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 7 - Derivatives

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Derivative Balance Sheet Presentation

---------------------------------------------------- --------------- ----------------- --------------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ -- - ---- ---- -- ----- - -- - ---- - -----
 Net Derivatives Asset Derivatives Liability Derivatives
 Notional Amount Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value
Hedge Designation/ Derivative Type Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2020 Dec 31, 2019
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps $ 2,340 $ 2,040 $ — $ — $ — $ 1 $ — $ (1)
Foreign currency swaps 286 270 (13) (1) 3 3 (16) (4)
Total cash flow hedges 2,626 2,310 (13) (1) 3 4 (16) (5)

Non-qualifying strategies
Interest rate contracts
Interest rate swaps and futures 8,335 9,338 (69) (59) 4 3 (73) (62)
Foreign exchange contracts
Foreign currency swaps and forwards 269 464 — (1) — — — (1)

Credit contracts
Credit derivatives that purchase credit protection 6 124 — (3) — — — (3)
Credit derivatives that assume credit risk [1] 675 500 21 13 21 13 — —
Credit derivatives in offsetting positions 218 29 — — 5 5 (5) (5)
Equity contracts
Equity index swaps and options — 941 — (15) — 15 — (30)

Total non-qualifying strategies 9,503 11,396 (48) (65) 30 36 (78) (101)
Total cash flow hedges and non-qualifying strategies $ 12,129 $ 13,706 $ (61) $ (66) $ 33 $ 40 $ (94) $ (106)
Balance Sheet Location
Fixed maturities, available-for-sale $ 269 $ 244 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Other investments 9,585 1,277 23 12 25 13 (2) (1)
Other liabilities 2,275 12,185 (84) (78) 8 27 (92) (105)

Total derivatives $ 12,129 $ 13,706 $ (61) $ (66) $ 33 $ 40 $ (94) $ (106)

[1]The derivative instruments related to this strategy are held for other investment purposes.
Offsetting of Derivative Assets/Liabilities

The following tables present the gross fair value amounts, the amounts offset, and net position of derivative instruments eligible for offset in the Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s Consolidated Balance Sheets and is limited to the net derivative receivable associated with each counterparty.
[4]Excludes collateral associated with exchange-traded derivative instruments.

Cash Flow Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a

component of OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. All components of each derivative’s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.

----------------------------- ----------------------- ---- ---- - -- - --
Gain (Loss) Recognized in OCI
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Interest rate swaps $ 38 $ 18 $ 5
Foreign currency swaps (8) 8 7
Total $ 30 $ 26 $ 12

------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------- - -------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------- --- -------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------- --- - ----- - --- - - ----- - ----- - ---
Gain (Loss) Reclassified from AOCI into Income
 Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
 Net Realized Capital Gain/(Loss) Net Investment Income Interest Expense Net Realized Capital Gain/(Loss) Net Investment Income Interest Expense Net Realized Capital Gain/(Loss) Net Investment Income Interest Expense
Interest rate swaps $ — $ 29 $ (7) $ 2 $ 4 $ 1 $ 6 $ 30 $ —
Foreign currency swaps (1) 5 — — 3 — — — —
Total $ (1) $ 34 $ (7) $ 2 $ 7 $ 1 $ 6 $ 30 $ —

Total amounts presented on the Consolidated Statement of Operations $ (14) $ 1,846 $ 236 $ 395 $ 1,951 $ 259 $ (112) $ 1,780 $ 298

As of December 31, 2020, the before tax deferred net gains on derivative instruments recorded in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next twelve months are $35. This expectation is based on the anticipated interest payments on hedged investments in fixed maturity securities and long-term debt that will occur over the next twelve months. At that time, the Company will recognize the deferred net gains (losses) as an

adjustment to net investment income and interest expense over the term of the investment cash flows.
During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company had no net reclassifications from AOCI to earnings resulting from the discontinuance of cash-flow hedges due to forecasted transactions that were no longer probable of occurring.

167

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 7 - Derivatives

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Non-Qualifying Strategies
For non-qualifying strategies, including embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated from their host contracts and

accounted for as derivatives, the gain or loss on the derivative is recognized currently in earnings within net realized capital gains (losses).
Non-Qualifying Strategies Recognized within Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

-------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- - ----
 For the Year Ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Interest rate contracts
Interest rate swaps, swaptions and futures $ 21 $ (35) $ (3)
Credit contracts
Credit derivatives that purchase credit protection 2 (5) —
Credit derivatives that assume credit risk 2 32 (14)
Equity contracts
Equity options 76 (17) 2
Foreign exchange contracts
Foreign currency swaps and forwards 3 1 3

Total [1] $ 104 $ (24) $ (12)

[1]Excludes investments that contain an embedded credit derivative for which the Company has elected the fair value option.

Credit Risk Assumed through Credit Derivatives
The Company enters into credit default swaps that assume credit risk of a single entity or referenced index in order to synthetically replicate investment transactions that are permissible under the Company']:
(4)Total contractual obligations exclude our gross unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties totaling $70.0 million as of November 30, 2020, because we are unable to make reasonable estimates as to the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. We are subject to the usual obligations associated with entering into contracts (including option contracts) for the purchase, development and sale of real estate in the routine conduct of our business. Option contracts for the purchase of land generally reduces our financial risk and costs of capital associated with land holdings. At November 30, 2020, we had access to 119,283 homesites through option contracts with third parties and unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2020, we had $414.2 million of non-refundable option deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to certain of these homesites and had posted $87.5 million of letters of credit in lieu of cash deposits under certain land and option contracts. At November 30, 2020, we had letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $1.0 billion (which included the $87.5 million of letters of credit discussed above). These letters of credit are generally posted either with regulatory bodies to guarantee our performance of certain development and construction activities, or in lieu of cash deposits on option contracts, for insurance risks, credit enhancements and as other collateral. Additionally, at November 30, 2020, we had outstanding surety bonds of $3.1 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. Although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all of the development and construction activities are completed. As of November 30, 2020, there were approximately $1.6...

[' Balances

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
8. PREMIUMS RECEIVABLE AND AGENTS']:
Note 8.Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, colocations, and equipment. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements for certain network equipment. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ------------ ----- ---- ----- - ----- December 31, 2020 2019 Finance lease cost Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 259 $ 195 Interest 14 12 Operating lease cost 1,391 1,139 Variable lease cost and other, net 269 160 Total lease cost $ 1,933 $ 1,506 Operating lease expense was $629 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 under Topic 840. 100 Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: ------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2020 2019 Weighted-average remaining lease term Operating leases 12.2 years 13.0 years Finance leases 14.9 years 15.3 years Weighted-average discount rate Operating leases 3.1 % 3.2 % Finance leases 2.9 % 3.1 % The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): ---------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2021 $ 1,300 $ 68 2022 1,394 51 2023 1,266 41 2024 1,163 41 2025 1,001 41 Thereafter 7,206 401 Total undiscounted cash flows 13,330 643 Less: Imputed interest (2,676) (120) Present value of lease liabilities $ 10,654 $ 523 Lease liabilities, current $ 1,023 $ 54 Lease liabilitie...

['s evaluation of the required ACL for receivables for loss within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums considers the current economic environment as well as the probability-weighted macroeconomic scenarios similar to the approach used for estimating the ACL for mortgage loans. See Note 6 - Investments. In response to significant economic stress experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, the Company increased the weight of both a moderate and severe recession scenario in our estimate of the ACL for losses within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums. However, overall, the ACL on receivables for losses within a deductible and retrospectively-rated policy premiums has decreased for the year, primarily due to a decline in the related receivable balance.

170

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 8 - Premiums Receivable and Agents']:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28 EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

['s historical loss information adjusted for current conditions and the forecasted economic environment at the time the guidance was adopted. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.

9. REINSURANCE

The Company cedes insurance risk to reinsurers to enable the Company to manage capital and risk exposure. Such arrangements do not relieve the Company of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to the Company. The Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s reporting units was completed as of October 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, which resulted in no write-downs of goodwill in the respective

years then ended. In 2020, all reporting units passed their annual impairment test with a significant margin.

174

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 11 - Goodwill & Other Intangible Assets

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Other Intangible Assets

------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------ ----------------------- - --------------------- ------------------------ ------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
 As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019
 Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount
Amortized Intangible Assets:
Value of in-force contracts [1] $ 203 $ (172) $ 31 $ 203 $ (125) $ 78
Customer relationships 636 (134) 502 636 (92) 544
Marketing agreement with Aetna 16 (3) 13 16 (2) 14
Distribution Agreement [2] 79 (65) 14 79 (61) 18
Distribution and Agency relationships & Other [3] 340 (45) 295 340 (19) 321
Total Finite Life Intangibles 1,274 (419) 855 1,274 (299) 975
Total Indefinite Life Intangible Assets [4] 95 — 95 95 — 95
Total Other Intangible Assets $ 1,369 $ (419) $ 950 $ 1,369 $ (299) $ 1,070

[1]On May 23, 2019, the Company acquired Navigators Group and recorded a value of in-force-contracts intangible asset of $180 which will be amortized over 3 years. For further discussion on the value of in-force-contracts related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .
[2]On May 28, 2020, the Company amended its distribution agreement to, among other changes in terms, extend the agreement. As a result of this extension in term, The Hartford reassessed the useful life of the distribution agreement to amortize over a remaining life of approximately 6.5 years.
[3]On May 23, 2019, the Company acquired Navigators Group and recorded other intangible assets of $302 for distribution relationships and $17 for the trade name. The distribution relationships and trade name will be amortized over 15 years and 10 years, respectively. For further discussion on the value of distribution relationships and trade name related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .
[4]On May 23, 2019, the Company acquired Navigators Group and recorded an indefinite life intangible asset of $66 related to the capacity to write business through its Lloyd']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[' existing net loss and allocated loss adjustment reserves as of December 31, 2018 subject to the treaty of $1.816 billion for accidents and losses prior to December 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company has recorded a reinsurance recoverable under the Navigators ADC of $209 as estimated cumulative loss development on the 2018 and prior accident year reserves of $309 exceed the $100 deductible. While the reinsurance recoverable is $209, the Company has also recorded a $118 cumulative deferred gain within other liabilities since, under retroactive reinsurance accounting, ceded losses in excess of the $91 of ceded premium paid must be recognized as a deferred gain. Of the $118 of cumulative ceded losses in excess of ceded premium paid, $102 was recognized as a deferred gain in 2020 and $16 was recognized as a deferred gain in 2019. As the Company has ceded $209 of the $300 available limit, there is $91 of remaining limit available as of December 31, 2020.

180

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Reconciliation of Loss Development to Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses As of December 31, 2020

------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- ------ --------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -------- -------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- --- --- ----- - ----- ----- - ------ - ----- - ------
 Losses and Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Subtotal
Reserve Line Cumulative Incurred for Accident Years Displayed in Triangles Cumulative Paid for Accident Years Displayed in Triangles Unpaid for Accident Years not Displayed in Triangles Unpaid Unallocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Discount Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Reinsurance and Other Recoverables Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses
Workers']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[' Compensation

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------------ -------------- ----- ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 2,013 $ 2,099 $ 2,204 $ 2,206 $ 2,221 $ 2,224 $ 2,232 $ 2,242 $ 2,239 $ 2,235 $ 291 177,961
 2012 2,185 2,207 2,207 2,181 2,168 2,169 2,154 2,146 2,135 325 171,494
 2013 2,020 1,981 1,920 1,883 1,861 1,861 1,850 1,831 378 151,422
 2014 1,869 1,838 1,789 1,761 1,713 1,692 1,679 437 126,217
 2015 1,873 1,835 1,801 1,724 1,714 1,699 477 113,966
 2016 1,772 1,772 1,780 1,767 1,748 574 112,058
 2017 1,862 1,869 1,840 1,822 753 111,510
 2018 1,916 1,917 1,915 854 117,999
 2019 1,937 1,935 1,033 117,698
 2020 1,865 1,412 84,062
Total $ 18,864

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 371 $ 841 $ 1,156 $ 1,368 $ 1,518 $ 1,622 $ 1,690 $ 1,746 $ 1,786 $ 1,811
 2012 359 809 1,106 1,313 1,436 1,529 1,587 1,644 1,678
 2013 304 675 917 1,071 1,175 1,260 1,304 1,339
 2014 275 598 811 960 1,041 1,099 1,137
 2015 261 576 778 909 1,004 1,068
 2016 255 579 779 908 1,003
 2017 261 575 778 900
 2018 283 624 837
 2019 291 637
 2020 223
Total $ 10,633

182

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
General Liability

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ --- - --- - --- - -- ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 431 $ 420 $ 408 $ 405 $ 404 $ 416 $ 417 $ 426 $ 420 $ 416 $ 40 22,394
 2012 423 402 399 392 410 408 421 413 407 50 16,597
 2013 455 442 456 484 488 502 505 508 62 13,867
 2014 506 475 481 494 513 522 515 78 14,722
 2015 556 560 554 594 633 647 110 15,382
 2016 613 583 607 633 632 176 16,479
 2017 626 614 613 616 258 15,943
 2018 692 669 697 395 16,881
 2019 821 826 638 15,191
 2020 937 850 9,265
Total $ 6,201

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 15 $ 61 $ 123 $ 200 $ 255 $ 303 $ 330 $ 348 $ 362 $ 368
 2012 13 55 101 170 233 280 305 323 332
 2013 13 53 141 233 320 372 398 422
 2014 15 42 130 214 304 358 402
 2015 10 55 156 278 409 477
 2016 12 52 131 283 368
 2017 15 67 156 255
 2018 21 83 177
 2019 29 100
 2020 45
Total $ 2,946

183

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Marine

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---------------- -------------- --- ----- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ----- ----- - --- - --- - - -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves [1] ClaimsReported
 2012 $ 195 $ 220 $ 180 $ 169 $ 163 $ 164 $ 168 $ 164 $ 164 $ 2 6,782
 2013 149 152 134 136 140 135 138 140 (3) 6,623
 2014 163 160 158 165 164 169 167 (3) 7,122
 2015 158 146 146 148 133 138 (5) 10,114
 2016 140 143 138 148 150 (7) 13,112
 2017 160 187 175 174 (12) 15,498
 2018 144 161 154 (12) 13,808
 2019 144 142 20 7,989
 2020 150 76 3,451
Total $ 1,379

[1]IBNR reserves are negative for some accident years as all losses ceded to the Navigators ADC are ceded as IBNR even though the gross losses being ceded include both reported losses and IBNR components. In addition, the collection of subrogation lags payment of the losses.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2012 $ 51 $ 101 $ 125 $ 139 $ 148 $ 152 $ 155 $ 159 $ 158
 2013 42 82 100 112 119 121 126 133
 2014 41 81 116 131 151 156 159
 2015 40 85 116 126 134 139
 2016 35 80 106 122 132
 2017 48 111 142 154
 2018 37 104 138
 2019 36 83
 2020 32
Total $ 1,128

184

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Package Business

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ --- - --- - --- - -- ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 810 $ 792 $ 790 $ 800 $ 808 $ 814 $ 813 $ 812 $ 807 $ 807 $ 24 61,097
 2012 736 725 728 731 736 735 739 732 732 30 59,871
 2013 579 565 573 585 586 592 586 587 29 43,620
 2014 566 578 601 602 603 603 593 44 43,207
 2015 582 588 585 583 588 581 56 42,121
 2016 655 638 632 625 611 78 43,922
 2017 695 702 692 657 114 46,366
 2018 719 724 688 169 44,273
 2019 813 769 256 41,800
 2020 915 412 56,548
Total $ 6,940

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 377 $ 555 $ 621 $ 684 $ 727 $ 748 $ 762 $ 772 $ 774 $ 776
 2012 286 486 560 616 652 673 687 694 697
 2013 225 339 414 467 504 522 541 549
 2014 226 345 416 468 507 525 535
 2015 212 332 383 445 486 505
 2016 225 353 410 465 500
 2017 235 372 447 496
 2018 237 402 451
 2019 254 413
 2020 326
Total $ 5,248

185

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Commercial Property

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ - --- - --- - - ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported

 2012 $ 369 $ 333 $ 334 $ 335 $ 337 $ 335 $ 334 $ 333 $ 332 $ — 26,860
 2013 268 252 254 252 249 248 247 247 — 21,610
 2014 293 281 282 280 279 280 280 — 21,025
 2015 299 301 302 301 305 304 1 21,020
 2016 406 420 399 406 408 1 23,758
 2017 577 516 455 438 6 24,332
 2018 450 437 424 26 21,630
 2019 476 437 21 20,791
 2020 495 162 18,628
Total $ 3,365

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

 2012 $ 182 $ 296 $ 317 $ 326 $ 331 $ 331 $ 331 $ 330 $ 330
 2013 161 223 238 243 242 244 245 245
 2014 170 250 270 279 279 279 280
 2015 179 257 285 296 302 303
 2016 215 342 378 396 401
 2017 229 379 412 428
 2018 188 344 379
 2019 214 349
 2020 221
Total $ 2,936

186

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Commercial Automobile Liability

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ --- - --- - --- - - ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 272 $ 310 $ 356 $ 356 $ 366 $ 365 $ 363 $ 362 $ 363 $ 363 $ 6 39,302
 2012 311 377 391 402 395 389 387 388 388 6 36,052
 2013 311 318 334 341 340 339 335 334 8 32,239
 2014 309 317 331 337 341 334 333 8 29,609
 2015 308 358 372 356 356 359 12 28,541
 2016 385 393 390 391 392 25 29,145
 2017 372 383 379 383 37 26,279
 2018 349 396 405 86 24,402
 2019 417 431 194 24,604
 2020 416 321 14,930
Total $ 3,804

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expense, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 63 $ 133 $ 211 $ 274 $ 316 $ 339 $ 348 $ 353 $ 354 $ 355
 2012 65 143 234 307 346 359 372 376 378
 2013 62 130 202 259 295 311 321 323
 2014 59 131 197 252 299 309 318
 2015 62 142 207 267 314 335
 2016 65 147 232 303 339
 2017 60 134 211 285
 2018 62 153 239
 2019 63 153
 2020 50
Total $ 2,775

187

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Commercial Automobile Physical Damage

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- - ------ ------ - - ------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2018 $ 62 $ 62 $ 61 $ 1 20,561
 2019 63 64 1 19,828
 2020 51 2 13,796
Total $ 176

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- --- -- - --
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020
 2018 $ 54 $ 60 $ 60
 2019 56 62
 2020 45
Total $ 167

188

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Professional Liability

 ----- ----- ----- ----- - --- - --- - -- -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Claims Made Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported

 2012 $ 242 $ 238 $ 238 $ 218 $ 221 $ 221 $ 219 $ 225 $ 217 $ 11 7,036
 2013 207 195 187 174 174 173 171 171 22 5,972
 2014 187 183 181 178 179 182 183 26 6,717
 2015 164 174 179 190 214 207 40 7,215
 2016 183 176 203 197 196 53 8,345
 2017 205 203 232 226 63 9,362
 2018 248 281 277 101 9,913
 2019 298 317 196 9,297
 2020 370 325 6,236
Total $ 2,164

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Claims Made Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020

 2012 $ 17 $ 67 $ 100 $ 139 $ 155 $ 168 $ 172 $ 175 $ 175
 2013 10 44 67 88 116 131 137 143
 2014 8 38 74 108 131 135 146
 2015 9 40 85 107 125 141
 2016 8 51 88 112 125
 2017 11 48 88 123
 2018 15 73 130
 2019 21 78
 2020 19
Total $ 1,080

189

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Bond

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- -- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -- - -- - -- - - -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 74 $ 78 $ 78 $ 76 $ 71 $ 71 $ 71 $ 71 $ 72 $ 71 $ 9 2,135
 2012 71 70 61 55 49 49 45 48 48 13 1,728
 2013 64 58 55 48 49 39 35 34 14 1,463
 2014 71 67 66 67 59 59 60 13 1,386
 2015 67 67 63 60 54 48 17 1,394
 2016 61 61 61 56 52 29 1,335
 2017 63 90 101 94 34 1,682
 2018 68 68 72 37 1,573
 2019 72 73 60 1,514
 2020 83 77 1,505
Total $ 635

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- - -- - --
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 12 $ 40 $ 52 $ 57 $ 58 $ 60 $ 60 $ 60 $ 61 $ 62
 2012 12 25 26 24 26 26 34 35 35
 2013 3 9 17 19 19 19 20 20
 2014 18 31 40 43 43 45 46
 2015 9 20 24 31 34 32
 2016 2 12 15 20 22
 2017 5 46 55 53
 2018 6 16 23
 2019 3 13
 2020 4
Total $ 310

190

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Assumed Reinsurance

 ----- ----- ----- ----- - --- - --- - - -----
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2012 $ 107 $ 99 $ 93 $ 88 $ 115 $ 120 $ 119 $ 120 $ 120 $ — 1,441
 2013 115 119 103 105 102 102 103 104 — 1,647
 2014 119 142 122 118 115 116 116 — 1,760
 2015 102 92 94 94 95 96 — 1,497
 2016 89 91 98 100 102 (1) 1,626
 2017 129 153 162 157 — 1,966
 2018 129 128 130 (14) 1,960
 2019 181 190 38 2,025
 2020 183 110 833
Total $ 1,198

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2012 $ 38 $ 77 $ 83 $ 85 $ 112 $ 118 $ 118 $ 119 $ 119
 2013 53 83 91 98 100 101 103 103
 2014 66 119 106 109 112 113 114
 2015 42 65 77 83 91 94
 2016 36 66 84 90 95
 2017 44 116 135 145
 2018 25 112 134
 2019 62 132
 2020 50
Total $ 986

191

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Personal Automobile Liability

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------------ -------------- ----- ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - - -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 1,181 $ 1,170 $ 1,180 $ 1,173 $ 1,166 $ 1,154 $ 1,154 $ 1,153 $ 1,153 $ 1,153 $ 4 221,891
 2012 1,141 1,149 1,146 1,142 1,133 1,130 1,130 1,130 1,129 5 210,757
 2013 1,131 1,145 1,144 1,153 1,152 1,153 1,157 1,156 7 205,480
 2014 1,146 1,153 1,198 1,200 1,199 1,202 1,201 8 209,013
 2015 1,195 1,340 1,338 1,330 1,331 1,328 15 216,871
 2016 1,407 1,402 1,393 1,397 1,395 28 215,797
 2017 1,277 1,275 1,228 1,214 50 187,408
 2018 1,108 1,104 1,072 105 155,821
 2019 1,018 1,010 220 138,430
 2020 805 400 90,933
Total $ 11,463

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------ ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 447 $ 826 $ 1,006 $ 1,088 $ 1,126 $ 1,140 $ 1,145 $ 1,146 $ 1,146 $ 1,148
 2012 441 818 986 1,067 1,104 1,114 1,120 1,122 1,123
 2013 442 816 1,002 1,091 1,121 1,135 1,142 1,144
 2014 430 843 1,032 1,125 1,165 1,182 1,186
 2015 475 935 1,142 1,243 1,292 1,304
 2016 505 968 1,188 1,308 1,345
 2017 441 836 1,033 1,123
 2018 359 710 888
 2019 323 654
 2020 238
Total $ 10,153

192

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Personal Automobile Physical Damage

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- - ------- ------- - - -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2018 $ 509 $ 498 $ 488 $ 1 305,389
 2019 445 442 — 276,688
 2020 349 (6) 199,623
Total $ 1,279

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ----- --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2018 2019 2020
 2018 $ 474 $ 491 $ 488
 2019 427 441
 2020 333
Total $ 1,262

193

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Homeowners

------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ------------ -------------- --- ------ ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- --- - --- - --- - - -------
Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 955 $ 920 $ 919 $ 916 $ 914 $ 911 $ 908 $ 907 $ 907 $ 907 $ — 179,405
 2012 774 741 741 741 739 738 738 738 737 — 142,855
 2013 673 638 637 634 632 630 629 630 1 113,546
 2014 710 707 702 700 698 698 698 — 121,914
 2015 690 703 690 684 684 684 1 119,981
 2016 669 673 663 658 658 2 119,742
 2017 866 889 884 783 6 124,581
 2018 903 910 673 (11) 102,603
 2019 501 475 27 83,915
 2020 525 89 82,246
Total $ 6,770

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- - --- - --- - --- - ---
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Accident Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 709 $ 871 $ 891 $ 899 $ 903 $ 905 $ 908 $ 907 $ 908 $ 907
 2012 547 696 719 727 731 734 735 736 736
 2013 467 590 611 622 626 627 628 628
 2014 526 663 684 691 695 697 697
 2015 487 645 665 674 680 681
 2016 481 621 640 649 653
 2017 538 747 795 757
 2018 484 712 616
 2019 318 425
 2020 335
Total $ 6,435

Property and casualty reserves, including IBNR reserves
The Company estimates ultimate losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses by accident year. IBNR represents the excess of estimated ultimate loss reserves over case reserves. The process to estimate ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses is an integral part of the Company']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[") recovery probabilities to be based on more recent experience. New York Paid Family Leave also experienced favorable claim emergence including an experience refund.
Group life and accident (including group life premium waiver)- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $60 largely driven by lower-than-previously expected claim incidence in group life premium waiver.
2018 re-estimates of prior incurral year reserves
Group disability- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $230 largely driven by group long-term disability claim recoveries higher than prior reserve assumptions and, primarily for the 2017 incurral year, claim incidence lower than prior assumptions. Short-term disability also experienced favorable claim recoveries.
Group life and accident (including group life premium waiver)- Prior period reserve estimates decreased by approximately $90 largely driven by lower-than-previously expected claim incidence inclusive of group life, group life premium waiver, and group accidental death & dismemberment, principally for the 2017 incurral year.

197

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
 Reconciliation of Loss Development to Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses as of December 31, 2020

------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- -------- -------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- ---- - --- --- ------- --- - ----- - --- - -----
 Losses and Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Subtotal
Reserve Line Cumulative Incurred for Incurral Years Displayed in Triangles Cumulative Paid for Incurral Years Displayed in Triangles Unpaid for Incurral Years not Displayed in Triangles Unpaid Unallocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Discount Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance Reinsurance and Other Recoverables Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses
Group long-term disability $ 14,411 $ (8,420) $ 1,554 $ 182 $ (1,233) $ 6,494 $ 227 $ 6,721
Group life and accident, excluding premium waiver 5,888 (5,283) 163 4 (17) 755 3 758
Group short-term disability 117 4 — 121 — 121
Group life premium waiver 688 10 (103) 595 2 597
Group supplemental health 31 — — 31 5 36
Total Group Benefits $ 20,299 $ (13,703) $ 2,553 $ 200 $ (1,353) $ 7,996 $ 237 $ 8,233

The following loss triangles present historical loss development for incurred and paid claims by the year the insured claim occurred, referred to as the incurral year. Triangles are limited to the number of years for which claims incurred typically remain

outstanding, not exceeding ten years. Short-tail lines, which represent claims generally expected to be paid within a few years, have three years of claim development displayed.
Group Long-Term Disability

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------------ -------------- ----- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ----- - ----- - ----- - - ------
Undiscounted Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
IncurralYear 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 IBNRReserves ClaimsReported
 2011 $ 1,917 $ 1,761 $ 1,660 $ 1,659 $ 1,669 $ 1,660 $ 1,649 $ 1,638 $ 1,631 $ 1,615 $ — 37,347
 2012 1,829 1,605 1,539 1,532 1,530 1,515 1,504 1,486 1,479 — 35,626
 2013 1,660 1,479 1,429 1,429 1,416 1,413 1,399 1,385 — 30,611
 2014 1,636 1,473 1,430 1,431 1,431 1,408 1,395 — 31,756
 2015 1,595 1,442 1,422 1,420 1,401 1,385 — 32,527
 2016 1,651 1,481 1,468 1,437 1,417 1 33,244
 2017 1,597 1,413 1,358 1,316 2 30,883
 2018 1,647 1,387 1,309 6 28,364
 2019 1,650 1,424 38 27,136
 2020 1,686 885 15,861
Total $ 14,411

198

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ----- --- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- - ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Incurral Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 2011 $ 118 $ 508 $ 743 $ 886 $ 996 $ 1,087 $ 1,167 $ 1,231 $ 1,286 $ 1,324
 2012 108 483 708 835 933 1,014 1,080 1,138 1,185
 2013 102 443 664 791 881 954 1,016 1,067
 2014 103 448 675 801 884 960 1,025
 2015 108 460 687 806 891 962
 2016 112 479 705 819 907
 2017 109 452 658 757
 2018 105 447 639
 2019 101 454
 2020 100
Total $ 8,420

Group Life and Accident, excluding Premium Waiver

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- ------------- --------------- -- ------ ------ - -- ------
Undiscounted Incurred Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Incurral Year 2018 2019 2020 IBNR Reserves Claims Reported
 2018 $ 1,952 $ 1,940 $ 1,950 $ 10 52,500
 2019 1,902 1,866 19 57,109
 2020 2,072 401 46,597
Total $ 5,888

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- - -----
Cumulative Paid Losses & Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses, Net of Reinsurance
 For the years ended December 31,
 (Unaudited)
Incurral Year 2018 2019 2020
 2018 $ 1,532 $ 1,916 $ 1,929
 2019 1,471 1,830
 2020 1,524
Total $ 5,283

Group life, disability and accident reserves, including IBNR
The majority of Group Benefits’ reserves are for LTD claimants who are known to be disabled and are currently receiving benefits. A Disabled Life Reserve ("]:
(60) (43) (48) Total before tax (13) (9) (10) Income tax expense (47) (34) (38) Net income Total amounts reclassified from AOCI $ 109 $ 111 $ (69) Net income [1] Prior to January 1, 2020, includes OTTI in OCI on fixed maturities, AFS. See Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies. 19. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS Investment and Savings Plan Substantially all U.S. employees of the Company are eligible to participate in The Hartford Investment and Savings Plan under which designated contributions may be invested in a variety of investments, including up to 10% in a fund consisting largely of common stock of The Hartford. The Company's contributions include a non-elective contribution of 2.0% of eligible compensation and a dollar-for-dollar matching contribution of up to 6.0% of eligible compensation contributed by the employee 212 ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------- Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

['s 4.3% notes due 2043. Under the terms of the RCC, if the Company redeems the debenture any time prior to February 12, 2047 (or such earlier date on which the RCC terminates by its terms) it can only do so with the proceeds from the sale of certain qualifying replacement securities. The RCC also prohibits the Company from redeeming all or any portion of the notes on or prior to February 15, 2022.
In July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority ("]:
(4)Total contractual obligations exclude our gross unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties totaling $70.0 million as of November 30, 2020, because we are unable to make reasonable estimates as to the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. We are subject to the usual obligations associated with entering into contracts (including option contracts) for the purchase, development and sale of real estate in the routine conduct of our business. Option contracts for the purchase of land generally reduces our financial risk and costs of capital associated with land holdings. At November 30, 2020, we had access to 119,283 homesites through option contracts with third parties and unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2020, we had $414.2 million of non-refundable option deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to certain of these homesites and had posted $87.5 million of letters of credit in lieu of cash deposits under certain land and option contracts. At November 30, 2020, we had letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $1.0 billion (which included the $87.5 million of letters of credit discussed above). These letters of credit are generally posted either with regulatory bodies to guarantee our performance of certain development and construction activities, or in lieu of cash deposits on option contracts, for insurance risks, credit enhancements and as other collateral. Additionally, at November 30, 2020, we had outstanding surety bonds of $3.1 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. Although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all of the development and construction activities are completed. As of November 30, 2020, there were approximately $1.6...

[ "Hartford Writing Companies”), and in some instances the Company itself, have been served as defendants in lawsuits seeking insurance coverage under

commercial insurance policies issued by the Hartford Writing Companies for alleged losses resulting from the shutdown or suspension of their businesses due to the spread of COVID-19. More than 230 such lawsuits have been filed, of which more than 50 purport to be filed on behalf of broad nationwide or statewide classes of policyholders. These lawsuits have been filed in state and federal courts in roughly 31 states. Although the allegations vary, the plaintiffs generally seek a declaration of insurance coverage, damages for breach of contract in unspecified amounts, interest, and attorney’s fees. Many of the lawsuits also allege that the insurance claims were denied in bad faith or otherwise in violation of state laws and seek extra-contractual or punitive damages.
The Company and its subsidiaries deny the allegations and intend to defend vigorously. The Hartford Writing Companies maintain that they have no coverage obligations with respect to these suits for business income allegedly lost by the plaintiffs due to the COVID-19 pandemic based on the clear terms of the applicable insurance policies. Although the policy terms vary depending, among other things, upon the size, nature, and location of the policyholder’s business, in general, the claims at issue in these lawsuits were denied because the claimant identified no direct physical damage or loss to property at the insured premises, and the governmental orders that led to the complete or partial shutdown of the business were not due to the existence of any direct physical loss or damage in the immediate vicinity of the insured premises and did not prohibit access to the insured premises, as required by the terms of the insurance policies. In addition, the vast majority of the policies at issue expressly exclude from coverage any loss caused directly or indirectly by the presence, growth, proliferation, spread or activity of a virus, subject to a narrow set of exceptions not applicable in connection with this pandemic, and contain a pollution and contamination exclusion that, among other things, expressly excludes from coverage any loss caused by material that threatens human health or welfare.
In addition to the inherent difficulty in predicting litigation outcomes, the COVID-19 pandemic business income coverage lawsuits present numerous uncertainties and contingencies that are not yet known, including how many policyholders will ultimately file claims, the number of lawsuits that will be filed, the extent to which any state or nationwide classes will be certified, and the size and scope of any such classes. The legal theories advocated by plaintiffs vary significantly by case as do the state laws that govern the policy interpretation. Many of these lawsuits remain in the earliest stages of litigation, many complaints are in the process of being amended, some have been dismissed voluntarily and may be refiled, while others have been dismissed through rulings in favor of the Hartford Writing Companies. Accordingly, little discovery has occurred. Some policyholders have appealed dismissals in favor of the Hartford Writing Companies; none of these appeals has been fully briefed at this time. In addition, business income calculations depend upon a wide range of factors that are particular to the circumstances of each individual policyholder and, here, virtually none of the plaintiffs have submitted proofs of loss or otherwise quantified or factually supported any allegedly covered loss, and, in any event, the Company’s experience shows that demands for damages often bear little relation to a reasonable estimate of potential

 204

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

loss. Accordingly, management cannot now reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any. Nonetheless, given the large number of claims and potential claims, the indeterminate amounts sought, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that adverse outcomes, if any, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated operating results.
Run-off Asbestos and Environmental Claims
The Company continues to receive A&E claims. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by people who came in contact with asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs.
The vast majority of the Company']:
NOTE 19. Business Segments and Geographic Information ​ 3M's businesses are organized, managed and internally grouped into segments based on differences in markets, products, technologies and services. 3M manages its operations in four business segments: Safety and Industrial; Transportation and Electronics; Health Care; and Consumer. 3M's four business segments bring together common or related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. Transactions among reportable segments are recorded at cost. 3M is an integrated enterprise characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, cost allocations and inventory transfers. Therefore, management does not represent that these segments, if operated independently, would report the operating income information shown. ​ Effective in the second quarter of 2020, the measure of segment operating performance used by 3M's chief operating decision maker (CODM) changed and, as a result, 3M's disclosed measure of segment profit/loss (business segment operating income) has been updated for all periods presented. The change to business segment operating income aligns with the update to how the CODM assesses performance and allocates resources for the Company's business segments. ​ 133 3M discloses business segment operating income as its measure of segment profit/loss, reconciled to both total 3M operating income and income before taxes. Business segment operating income includes dual credit for certain related operating income (as described below in "Elimination of Dual Credit"). Business segment operating income excludes certain expenses and income that are not allocated to business segments (as described below in "Corporate and Unallocated"). Additionally, the following special items are excluded from business segment operating income and, instead, are included within Corporate and Unallocated: significant litigation-related charges/be...

['s Syndicates may pay dividends to its parent to the extent of available profits that have been distributed from the syndicate in excess of the FAL capital requirement. The FAL is determined based on the syndicate’s solvency capital requirement of the syndicate under the Solvency II capital adequacy model, the current regulatory framework governing UK domiciled insurers, plus a Lloyd’s specific economic capital assessment.
Insurers domiciled in the United Kingdom may pay dividends to its parent out of its statutory profits subject to restrictions imposed under U.K. Company law and Solvency II. Belgium domiciled insurers may only pay dividends if, at the end of its previous fiscal year, the total amount of its assets, as reduced by its provisions and debts, are in excess of certain minimum capital thresholds calculated under Belgian law.
The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which The Hartford’s insurance subsidiaries are incorporated (or deemed commercially domiciled) generally contain similar (although in certain instances more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends. In addition to statutory limitations on paying dividends, the Company also takes other items into consideration when determining dividends from subsidiaries. These considerations include, but are not limited to, expected earnings and capitalization of the subsidiaries, regulatory capital requirements , liquidity requirements of the individual operating company and are also dependent on the extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.
In 2020, the Company received $350 of dividends from HLA and $127 from Hartford Funds. In addition, HFSG Holding Company received $900 of net dividends from P&C subsidiaries in 2020 which excludes $50 of P&C dividends that were subsequently contributed to a run-off P&C subsidiary and $78 of P&C dividends related to interest payments on an intercompany note owed by Hartford Holdings, Inc. ("]:
NOTE 19. Business Segments and Geographic Information ​ 3M's businesses are organized, managed and internally grouped into segments based on differences in markets, products, technologies and services. 3M manages its operations in four business segments: Safety and Industrial; Transportation and Electronics; Health Care; and Consumer. 3M's four business segments bring together common or related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing for efficient sharing of business resources. Transactions among reportable segments are recorded at cost. 3M is an integrated enterprise characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, cost allocations and inventory transfers. Therefore, management does not represent that these segments, if operated independently, would report the operating income information shown. ​ Effective in the second quarter of 2020, the measure of segment operating performance used by 3M's chief operating decision maker (CODM) changed and, as a result, 3M's disclosed measure of segment profit/loss (business segment operating income) has been updated for all periods presented. The change to business segment operating income aligns with the update to how the CODM assesses performance and allocates resources for the Company's business segments. ​ 133 3M discloses business segment operating income as its measure of segment profit/loss, reconciled to both total 3M operating income and income before taxes. Business segment operating income includes dual credit for certain related operating income (as described below in "Elimination of Dual Credit"). Business segment operating income excludes certain expenses and income that are not allocated to business segments (as described below in "Corporate and Unallocated"). Additionally, the following special items are excluded from business segment operating income and, instead, are included within Corporate and Unallocated: significant litigation-related charges/be...

[") to Hartford Fire Insurance Company.
The Company’s property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have dividend capacity of $1.7 billion for 2021, with $850 to $900 of net dividends expected in 2021.

208

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 16 - Equity

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

HLA has dividend capacity of $295 in 2021 with $250 to $295 of dividends expected in 2021.
There are no current restrictions on HFSG Holding Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s Consolidated Financial Statements for any potential adjustments that may result from tax examinations and other tax-related matters for all open tax years.
The Company classifies interest and penalties (if applicable) as income tax expense in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company recognized net interest income of $1, $1 and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. The Company has no interest payable as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. The Company does not believe it would be subject to any penalties in any open tax years and, therefore, has not recorded any accrual for penalties.

18. CHANGES IN AND RECLASSIFICATIONS FROM ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Changes in AOCI, Net of Tax for the Year Ended December 31, 2020

------------------------------ --------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - -- ---- - ----- - ------- - -----
 Changes in
 Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities Unrealized loss on Fixed Maturities with ACL Net Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments AOCI, net of tax
Beginning balance $ 1,684 $ (3) $ 9 $ 34 $ (1,672) $ 52

OCI before reclassifications 1,285 1 24 9 (92) 1,227
Amounts reclassified from AOCI (135) — (21) — 47 (109)
OCI, net of tax 1,150 1 3 9 (45) 1,118
Ending balance $ 2,834 $ (2) $ 12 $ 43 $ (1,717) $ 1,170

210

----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 18 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Changes in AOCI, Net of Tax for the Year Ended December 31, 2019

-------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - --- ---- - ----- - ------- - -------
 Changes in
 Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities OTTI Losses in OCI Net Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments AOCI, net of tax
Beginning balance $ 24 $ (4) $ (5) $ 30 $ (1,624) $ (1,579)
OCI before reclassifications [2] 1,797 1 22 4 (82) 1,742
Amounts reclassified from AOCI (137) — (8) — 34 (111)
OCI, net of tax 1,660 1 14 4 (48) 1,631
Ending balance $ 1,684 $ (3) $ 9 $ 34 $ (1,672) $ 52

Changes in AOCI, Net of Tax for the Year ended December 31, 2018

------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ------------------ ----------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ---------------- --- --- ----- - ------- - ------- - -------
 Changes in
 Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities OTTI Losses in OCI Net Gain on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments AOCI, net of tax
Beginning balance $ 1,931 $ (3) $ 18 $ 34 $ (1,317) $ 663
Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of tax [1] 273 — 2 4 (284) (5)
Adjusted balance, beginning of period $ 2,204 $ (3) $ 20 $ 38 $ (1,601) $ 658
OCI before reclassifications [2] (2,245) — 8 (8) (61) (2,306)
Amounts reclassified from AOCI 65 (1) (33) — 38 69
OCI, net of tax (2,180) (1) (25) (8) (23) (2,237)
Ending balance $ 24 $ (4) $ (5) $ 30 $ (1,624) $ (1,579)

[1]Includes reclassification to retained earnings of $88 of stranded tax effects and $93 of net unrealized gains, net of tax, related to equity securities. Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.
[2]The reduction in AOCI included the effect of removing $758 of AOCI from the balance sheet when the life and annuity business was sold in May 2018.

211

----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 18 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Reclassifications from AOCI

------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ - ---- ----------------------------------------------- ---- --------------------------------------------
AOCI Amount Reclassified from AOCI Affected Line Item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations
 For the year ended December 31, 2020 For the year ended December 31, 2019 For the year ended December 31, 2018
Net Unrealized Gain on Fixed Maturities
Fixed maturities, AFS $ 171 $ 174 $ (80) Net realized capital gains (losses)
 171 174 (80) Total before tax
 36 37 (17) Income tax expense
 — — (2) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
 $ 135 $ 137 $ (65) Net income

Unrealized Loss on Fixed Maturities with ACL [1]
Fixed maturities, AFS $ — $ — $ — Net realized capital gains (losses)
 — — — Total before tax
 — — — Income tax expense
 — — 1 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
 $ — $ — $ 1 Net income

Net Gains on Cash Flow Hedging Instruments
Interest rate swaps $ — $ 2 $ 6 Net realized capital gains (losses)
Interest rate swaps 29 4 30 Net investment income
Interest rate swaps (7) 1 — Interest expense
Foreign currency swaps (1) — — Net realized capital gains (losses)
Foreign currency swaps 5 3 — Net investment income
 26 10 36 Total before tax
 5 2 8 Income tax expense
 — — 5 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
 $ 21 $ 8 $ 33 Net income

Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Adjustments
Amortization of prior service credit $ 7 $ 7 $ 7 Insurance operating costs and other expenses
Amortization of actuarial loss (67) (50) (55) Insurance operating costs and other expenses

 (60) (43) (48) Total before tax
 (13) (9) (10) Income tax expense
 (47) (34) (38) Net income
Total amounts reclassified from AOCI $ 109 $ 111 $ (69) Net income

[1] Prior to January 1, 2020, includes OTTI in OCI on fixed maturities, AFS. See Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.

19. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Investment and Savings Plan
Substantially all U.S. employees of the Company are eligible to participate in The Hartford Investment and Savings Plan under which designated contributions may be invested in a variety of

investments, including up to 10% in a fund consisting largely of common stock of The Hartford. The Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s pension and other post retirement obligations, respectively.
Weighted Average Assumptions Used in Calculating the Benefit Obligations and the Net Amount Recognized

------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---- ---- ---- - ---- -
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2020 2019
Discount rate 2.65 % 3.33 % 2.36 % 3.15 %

Weighted Average Assumptions Used in Calculating the Net Periodic Benefit Cost for Pension Plans

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Discount rate 3.33 % 4.35 % 3.73 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 6.00 % 6.45 % 6.60 %

213

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Weighted Average Assumptions Used in Calculating the Net Periodic Benefit Cost for Other Postretirement Plans

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Discount rate 3.15 % 4.23 % 3.55 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 5.60 % 6.00 % 6.60 %

Assumed Health Care Cost Trend Rates

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Pre-65 health care cost trend rate 7.00 % 7.00 % 6.50 %
Post-65 health care cost trend rate N/A N/A N/A
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.50 % 4.50 % 4.50 %
Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2033 2033 2028

Obligations and Funded Status
The following tables set forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets, as well as the funded status of the Company']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[") are used in the fair value measurement on a recurring basis. The Pension Plan classifies the fair value of financial instruments within Level 3 if there are no observable markets for

the instruments or, in the absence of active markets, if one or more of the significant inputs used to determine fair value are based on the Pension Plan’s own assumptions. Therefore, the gains and losses in the tables below include changes in fair value due to both observable and unobservable factors.

217

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- ---- ------------------ -------------- --------- ------ - --- - --- ---- - - - ---
Pension Plan Asset Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
Assets Corporate RMBS Foreign government Mortgage loans Other [1] Totals
Fair Value as of January 1, 2020 $ 27 $ — $ 1 $ 131 $ 1 $ 160
Realized gains (losses), net — — — — (1) (1)
Changes in unrealized gains, net 1 — — 4 1 6
Purchases 14 1 9 32 — 56
Settlements — — — — — —
Sales (3) — — (6) — (9)
Transfers into Level 3 — — — — — —
Transfers out of Level 3 — — (1) — (1) (2)
Fair Value as of December 31, 2020 $ 39 $ 1 $ 9 $ 161 $ — $ 210

Fair Value as of January 1, 2019 $ 14 $ 1 $ 2 $ 133 $ 1 $ 151
Realized gains, net 3 — — — — 3
Changes in unrealized gains, net 2 — — 4 — 6
Purchases 7 — — — — 7
Settlements — — — — — —
Sales (3) (1) (1) (6) — (11)
Transfers into Level 3 4 — — — — 4
Transfers out of Level 3 — — — — — —
Fair Value as of December 31, 2019 $ 27 $ — $ 1 $ 131 $ 1 $ 160

[1]"]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Workfront Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.50 billion in cash consideration. The initial purchase accounting for this transaction has not yet been completed given the short period of time between the acquisition date and issuance of these financial statements. Workfront will be integrated into our Digital Experience reportable segment for financial reporting purposes in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 79 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42 million, which represents the difference between the $55 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $126 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $45 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remain...

[" includes U.S. Treasuries, Other fixed income and CMBS investments.

During the year ended December 
During the year ended December 31, 2019, transfers into and (out) of Level 3 are primarily attributable to the appearance of or

lack thereof of market observable information and the re-evaluation of the observability of pricing inputs.
There was less than $1 in Company common stock included in the Pension Plan’s assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Other Postretirement Plan Assets at Fair Value

---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ----------------------- ----- -- ------- ------- ------- ----- -- -- -- - -- -- - -- - - - --
 As of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019
Asset Category Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Short-term investments $ 2 $ — $ — $ 2 $ 3 $ — $ — $ 3
Fixed Income Securities:
Corporate — 16 — 16 — 18 — 18
RMBS — 9 — 9 — 12 — 12
U.S. Treasuries — 16 — 16 — 20 — 20

CMBS — 1 — 1 — 1 — 1
Other fixed income — 2 — 2 — 2 — 2
Equity Securities:
Large-cap 17 — — 17 19 — — 19
Total other postretirement plan assets at fair value $ 19 $ 44 $ — $ 63 $ 22 $ 53 $ — $ 75

There was no Company common stock included in the other postretirement benefit plan assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Concentration of Risk
In order to minimize risk, the Pension Plan maintains a listing of permissible and prohibited investments. In addition, the Pension Plan has certain concentration limits and investment quality

requirements imposed on permissible investment options. options, swaps, currency forwards, caps or floors and may be used to control risk or enhance return but will not be used for leverage purposes.

218

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 19 - Employee Benefit Plans

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

 securities involving the use of margin, leveraged floaters and inverse floaters, including money market obligations, natural resource real properties such as oil, gas or timber and precious metals.
Other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, the Pension Plan does not have any material exposure to any concentration risk of a single issuer.
Expected Employer Contributions
The Company does not have a 2021 required minimum funding contribution for the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan. The Company has not determined plan during 2021 to make this determination.

Benefit Payments

Amounts of Benefits Expected to be Paid over the next Ten Years from Pension and other Postretirement Plans as of December 31, 2020

----------- ---------------- ----------------------------- -- - ---
 Pension Benefits Other Postretirement Benefits
 2021 $ 223 $ 22
 2022 229 20
 2023 235 18
 2024 242 17
 2025 246 15
2026 - 2030 1,252 59
Total $ 2,427 $ 151

20. STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

The Company']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020. The Continental Europe Operations are reported under the Commercial Lines segment. The estimate of consideration less costs to sell of $14 includes an estimate of consideration that is contingent on how the ultimate amounts required to settle claims on 2020 and prior accident years, as determined at the end of 2024, compare with recorded reserves as currently estimated. The contingent consideration has been estimated at its fair value of $12 and could increase or decrease depending on how ultimate losses develop. Any change in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration in a future period would increase or decrease the estimated loss on sale in that period.
Carrying Value of Assets and Liabilities to be Transferred in Connection With the Sale [1]

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ---
 As of December 31, 2020
Assets
Investments and cash $ 142

Reinsurance recoverables and other 35
Total assets held for sale 177
Liabilities
Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses 84
Unearned premiums 31
Other liabilities 43
Total liabilities held for sale $ 158

[1] As of December 31, 2020, the estimated fair value of the disposal group is $14 based on the estimated consideration to be received less cost to sell. Within the disposal group, as of December 31, 2020, investments in fixed maturities and short-term investments, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, had a fair value of $84, of which $1 was based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and $83 was based on significant observable inputs. The remaining fair value less costs to sell for the disposal group is ($70), which is measured on a nonrecurring basis using significant unobservable inputs. See Note 5—Fair Value Measurements for more information.

23. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER COSTS

In recognition of the need to become more cost efficient and competitive along with enhancing the experience we provide to agents and customers, on July 30, 2020 the Company announced an operational transformation and cost reduction plan it refers to as Hartford Next. Hartford Next is intended to reduce annual insurance operating costs and other expenses through reduction of the Company']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[See footnote 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[" in Part I.
Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments
For a discussion regarding Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments, see Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
For a discussion of accounting standards, see Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

119

ACRONYMS

------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A&E Asbestos and Environmental HHI Hartford Holdings, Inc.
ABS Asset Backed Securities HIMCO Hartford Investment Management Company
ACL Allowance for Credit Losses IBNR Incurred But Not Reported
ADC Adverse Development Cover IT Information Technology
AFS Available-For-Sale LCL Liability for Credit Losses
ALAE Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
AMT Alternative Minimum Tax LTD Long-Term Disability
AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income LTV Loan-to-Value
AUM Assets Under Management MD&A Management']:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

["). For further discussion of this transaction, see Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
On May 23, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of The Navigators Group, Inc. ("]:
Note 22 - Segment and Revenue Information 125

[" approach comprised of the following pricing sources and techniques, which are listed in priority order:
•Quoted prices, unadjusted, for identical assets or liabilities in active markets, which are classified as Level 1.
•Prices from third-party pricing services, which primarily utilize a combination of techniques. These services utilize recently reported trades of identical, similar, or benchmark securities making adjustments for market observable inputs available through the reporting date. If there are no recently reported trades, they may use a discounted cash flow technique to develop a price using expected cash flows based upon the anticipated future performance of the underlying collateral discounted at an estimated market rate. Both techniques develop prices that consider the time value of future cash flows and provide a margin for risk, including liquidity and credit risk. Most prices provided by third-party pricing services are classified as Level 2 because the inputs

149

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

used in pricing the securities are observable. However, some securities that are less liquid or trade less actively are classified as Level 3. Additionally, certain long-dated securities, such as municipal securities and bank loans, include benchmark interest rate or credit spread assumptions that are not observable in the marketplace and are thus classified as Level 3.
•Internal matrix pricing, which is a valuation process internally developed for private placement securities for which the Company is unable to obtain a price from a third-party pricing service. Internal pricing matrices determine credit spreads that, when combined with risk-free rates, are applied to contractual cash flows to develop a price. The Company develops credit spreads using market based data for public securities adjusted for credit spread differentials between public and private securities, which are obtained from a survey of multiple private placement brokers. The market-based reference credit spread considers the issuer’s financial strength and term to maturity, using an independent public security index, while the credit spread differential considers the non-public nature of the security. Securities priced using internal matrix pricing are classified as Level 2 because the significant inputs are observable or can be corroborated with observable data.
•Independent broker quotes, which are typically non-binding, use inputs that can be difficult to corroborate with observable market based data. Brokers may use present value techniques using assumptions specific to the security types, or they may use recent transactions of similar securities. Due to the lack of transparency in the process that brokers use to develop prices, valuations that are based on independent broker quotes are classified as Level 3.
The fair value of derivative instruments is determined primarily using a discounted cash flow model or option model technique and incorporates counterparty credit risk. In some cases, quoted market prices for exchange-traded and OTC-cleared derivatives may be used and in other cases independent broker quotes may be used. The pricing valuation models primarily use inputs that are observable in the market or can be corroborated by

observable market data. The valuation of certain derivatives may include significant inputs that are unobservable, such as volatility levels, and reflect the Company’s view of what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments.
Valuation Controls
The process for determining the fair value of investments is monitored by the Valuation Committee, which is a cross-functional group of senior management within the Company. The purpose of the Valuation Committee is to provide oversight of the pricing policy, procedures and controls, including approval of valuation methodologies and pricing sources. The Valuation Committee reviews market data trends, pricing statistics and trading statistics to ensure that prices are reasonable and consistent with our fair value framework. Controls and procedures used to assess third-party pricing services are reviewed by the Valuation Committee, including the results of annual due-diligence reviews. Controls include, but are not limited to, reviewing daily and monthly price changes, stale prices, and missing prices and comparing new trade prices to third-party pricing services, weekly price changes to published bond prices of a corporate bond index, and daily OTC derivative market valuations to counterparty valuations. The Company has a dedicated pricing unit that works with trading and investment professionals to challenge the price received by a third party pricing source if the Company believes that the valuation received does not accurately reflect the fair value. New valuation models and changes to current models require approval by the Valuation Committee. In addition, the Company’s enterprise-wide Operational Risk Management function provides an independent review of the suitability and reliability of model inputs, as well as an analysis of significant changes to current models.
Valuation Inputs
Quoted prices for identical assets in active markets are considered Level 1 and consist of on-the-run U.S. Treasuries, money market funds, exchange-traded equity securities, open-ended mutual funds, certain short-term investments, and exchange traded futures and option contracts.

150

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Valuation Inputs Used in Levels 2 and 3 Measurements for Securities and Derivatives

---------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Level 2 Primary Observable Inputs Level 3Primary Unobservable Inputs
Fixed Maturity Investments
Structured securities (includes ABS, CLOs, CMBS and RMBS)
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Monthly payment subprime RMBS:• Estimated cash flows• Credit spreads, which include illiquidity premium• Constant prepayment rates• Constant default rates• Loss severity
Corporates
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Reported trades, bids, offers of the same or similar securities• Issuer spreads and credit default swap curvesOther inputs for investment grade privately placed securities that utilize internal matrix pricing non-public nature
U.S Treasuries, Municipals, and Foreign government/government agencies
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Issuer credit default swap curves• Political events in emerging market economies • Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board reported trades and material event notices • Issuer financial statements • Credit spreads beyond observable curve• Interest rates beyond observable curve
Equity Securities
 • Quoted prices in markets that are not active • For privately traded equity securities, internal discounted cash flow models utilizing earnings multiples or other cash flow assumptions that are not observable
Short-term Investments
 • Benchmark yields and spreads• Reported trades, bids, offers• Issuer spreads and credit default swap curves• Material event notices and new issue money market rates • Independent broker quotes
Derivatives
Credit derivatives
 • Swap yield curve • Credit default swap curves Not applicable
Equity derivatives
 • Equity index levels• Swap yield curve • Independent broker quotes• Equity volatility
Foreign exchange derivatives
 • Swap yield curve• Currency spot and forward rates• Cross currency basis curves Not applicable
Interest rate derivatives
 • Swap yield curve • Independent broker quotes• Interest rate volatility

151

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Significant Unobservable Inputs for Level 3 - Securities

------------------------------------------------------- ------- --------
Assets accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis FairValue PredominantValuationTechnique Significant Unobservable Input Minimum Maximum Weighted Average [1] Impact ofIncrease in Inputon Fair Value [2]
As of December 31, 2020
CLOs [3] $ 340 Discounted cash flows Spread 304 bps 305 bps 304 bps Decrease
CMBS [3] $ 20 Discounted cash flows Spread (encompasses prepayment, default risk and loss severity) 255 bps 975 bps 688 bps Decrease
Corporate [4] $ 749 Discounted cash flows Spread 110 bps 692 bps 293 bps Decrease

RMBS [3] $ 364 Discounted cash flows Spread [6] 7 bps 937 bps 119 bps Decrease
 Constant prepayment rate [6] —% 10% 5% Decrease [5]
 Constant default rate [6] 2% 6% 3% Decrease
 Loss severity [6] —% 100% 84% Decrease
As of December 31, 2019
CLOs [3] $ 95 Discounted cash flows Spread 246 bps 246 bps 246 bps Decrease
CMBS [3] $ 1 Discounted cash flows Spread (encompasses prepayment, default risk and loss severity) 9 bps 1,832 bps 161 bps Decrease
Corporate [4] $ 633 Discounted cash flows Spread 93 bps 788 bps 236 bps Decrease

RMBS [3] $ 560 Discounted cash flows Spread [6] 5 bps 233 bps 79 bps Decrease
 Constant prepayment rate [6] —% 11% 6% Decrease [5]
 Constant default rate [6] 1% 6% 3% Decrease
 Loss severity [6] —% 100% 70% Decrease

[1]The weighted average is determined based on the fair value of the securities.
[2]Conversely, the impact of a decrease in input would have the opposite impact to the fair value as that presented in the table.
[3]Excludes securities for which the Company bases fair value on broker quotations.
[4]Excludes securities for which the fair value.
[5]Decrease for above market rate coupons and increase for below market rate coupons.
[6]Generally, a change in the assumption used for the constant default rate would have been accompanied by a directionally similar change in the assumption used for the loss severity and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for constant prepayment rate and would have resulted in wider spreads.
Significant Unobservable Inputs for Level 3 - Derivatives [1]

----------------------- --------- ------------------------------ ----------------------------- ------------ ----------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------- -- - -- - --------
 FairValue Predominant ValuationTechnique SignificantUnobservable Input Minimum Maximum Weighted Average [2] Impact of Increase in Input on Fair Value [3]

As of December 31, 2019

Equity options $ (15) Option model Equity volatility 13 % 28 % 17 % Increase

[1]As of December 31, 2020, the fair values of the Company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s evaluation of the required ACL for reinsurance recoverables considers the current economic environment as well as macroeconomic scenarios similar to the approach used to estimate the ACL for mortgage loans. See Note 6 - Investments. Insurance companies, including reinsurers, are regulated and hold risk-based capital to mitigate the risk of loss due to economic factors and other risks. Non-U.S. reinsurers are either subject to a capital regime substantively equivalent to domestic insurers or we hold collateral to support collection of reinsurance recoverables. As a result, there is limited history of losses from insurer defaults. In response to significant economic stress experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, the Company increased the weight of both a moderate and severe recession in our estimate of the ACL for reinsurance recoverables. The Company expects the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to reinsurers to be somewhat mitigated by their regulated capital and liquidity positions.

172

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 9 - Reinsurance

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ -------------- --------- ----- - -- - - ---
Allowance for Uncollectible Reinsurance
 For the year ended December 31, 2020
 Property and Casualty Group Benefits Corporate Total
Beginning allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 114 $ — $ — $ 114
Beginning allowance for disputed amounts 66 — — 66
Beginning ACL 48 — — 48
Cumulative effect of accounting change [1] — 1 1 2
Adjusted beginning ACL 48 1 1 50
Current period provision (release) 3 — 1 4

Current period gross recoveries 1 — — 1
Ending ACL 52 1 2 55
Ending allowance for disputed amounts 53 — — 53
Ending allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 105 $ 1 $ 2 $ 108

[1] Represents the adjustment to the ACL recorded on adoption of accounting guidance for credit losses on January 1, 2020. For further information refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies
Insurance Revenues
Property and Casualty Insurance Revenue

---------------- -------------------------------- ------ ----- - ------ - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
Premiums Written 2020 2019 2018
Direct $ 12,537 $ 12,190 $ 10,784
Assumed 577 371 217
Ceded (1,209) (978) (593)
Net $ 11,905 $ 11,583 $ 10,408
Premiums Earned
Direct $ 12,551 $ 12,010 $ 10,824
Assumed 540 416 221
Ceded (1,173) (936) (599)
Net $ 11,918 $ 11,490 $ 10,446

Group Benefits Revenue

---------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Gross earned premiums, fees and other considerations $ 5,245 $ 4,122 $ 3,615
Reinsurance assumed 387 1,572 2,044
Reinsurance ceded (96) (91) (61)
Net earned premiums, fees and other considerations $ 5,536 $ 5,603 $ 5,598

For its group benefits products, the Company reinsures certain of its risks to other reinsurers under yearly renewable term and coinsurance arrangements and variations thereto. Yearly renewable term and coinsurance arrangements result in passing a

portion of the risk to the reinsurer. Generally, the reinsurer receives a proportionate amount of the premiums less an allowance for commissions and expenses and is liable for a corresponding proportionate amount of all benefit payments.

173

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 10 - Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
10. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS
Changes in DAC

------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---- ------- - ------- - ---
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Balance, beginning of period $ 785 $ 670 $ 650
Deferred costs 1,666 1,635 1,404
Amortization — DAC (1,706) (1,622) (1,384)
Add back amortization of value of business acquired [1] 47 102 —

DAC transferred to assets held for sale (3) — —
Balance, end of period $ 789 $ 785 $ 670

[1] While the value of in-force contracts acquired from the Navigators Group acquisition is included in other intangible assets, the amortization of that asset is recorded as DAC amortization.

11. GOODWILL & OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill Carrying Value as of December 31, 2020

------------------------------------ ---------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- ------------- ----- - --- - - --- - --- - -----
 Commercial Lines Personal Lines Hartford Funds Group Benefits Corporate [1] Total
Balance at December 31, 2018 $ 38 $ 119 $ 180 $ 723 $ 230 $ 1,290
Goodwill related to acquisitions [2] 623 — — — — 623

Balance at December 31, 2019 $ 661 $ 119 $ 180 $ 723 $ 230 $ 1,913
Measurement period adjustments [2] (2) — — — — (2)

Balance at December 31, 2020 $ 659 $ 119 $ 180 $ 723 $ 230 $ 1,911

[1]The Corporate category includes goodwill that was acquired at a holding company level and not pushed down to a respectively.
[2] For further discussion on goodwill related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .

The annual goodwill assessment for The Hartford']:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28 EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

['s Syndicate and recorded an indefinite life intangible of $15 for licenses . For further discussion on the indefinite life intangible assets related to the acquisition of Navigators Group, refer to Note 2 - Business Acquisitions .

Expected Pre-tax Amortization Expense [1] for Acquired Intangibles as of December 31, 2020

---- --------------------------- ----------------------- - --
 Value of In-force Contracts Other Intangible Assets
2021 $ 21 $ 71
2022 $ 10 $ 70
2023 $ — $ 70
2024 $ — $ 70
2025 $ — $ 70

[1]In the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the amortization of value of in-force contracts is reported in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and the amortization of other intangible assets is reported in amortization of other intangible assets.

175

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
12. RESERVE FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
Property and Casualty Insurance Products
Rollforward of Liabilities for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ------ ------- - ------- - ------
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, gross $ 28,261 $ 24,584 $ 23,775
Reinsurance and other recoverables 5,275 4,232 3,957
Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net 22,986 20,352 19,818
Navigators Group acquisition — 2,001 —
Provision for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
Current accident year 7,794 7,463 7,107
Prior accident year development [1] (136) (65) (167)
Total provision for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses 7,658 7,398 6,940
Change in deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance included in other liabilities [1] (312) (16) —
Payments
Current accident year (2,214) (2,374) (2,452)
Prior accident years (4,190) (4,374) (3,954)
Total payments (6,404) (6,748) (6,406)
Net reserves transferred to liabilities held for sale (45) — —
Foreign currency adjustment 14 (1) —
Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net 23,897 22,986 20,352
Reinsurance and other recoverables 5,725 5,275 4,232
Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, gross $ 29,622 $ 28,261 $ 24,584

[1]Prior accident year development does not include the benefit of a portion of losses ceded under the Navigators and A&E ADC which, under retroactive reinsurance accounting, is deferred and is recognized over the period the ceded losses are recovered in cash from NICO. For additional information regarding the two adverse development cover reinsurance agreements, refer to Adverse Development Covers discussion below.
Property and Casualty Insurance Products Reserves, Net of Reinsurance, that are Discounted

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ----- ---- - ----- ----- - ---- - - ----- -
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, at undiscounted amounts $ 1,334 $ 1,331 $ 1,331
Amount of discount 367 388 388
Carrying value of liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses $ 967 $ 943 $ 943
Discount accretion included in losses and loss adjustment expenses $ 36 $ 33 $ 40
Weighted average discount rate 2.68 % 2.91 % 2.98 %
Range of discount rates 0.83 % - 14.03 % 1.76 % - 14.03 % 1.77 % - 14.15 %

Reserves are discounted at rates in effect at the time claims were incurred, ranging from 0.83% for accident year 2020 to 14.03% for accident year 1981.
The reserves recorded for the Company’s property and casualty insurance products at December 31, 2020 represent the Company’s best estimate of its ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses related to losses covered by policies written by the Company. However, because of the significant uncertainties surrounding reserves it is possible that management’s estimate of the ultimate liabilities for these claims

may change and that the required adjustment to recorded reserves could exceed the currently recorded reserves by an amount that could be material to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows.
Losses and loss adjustment expenses are also impacted by trends including frequency and severity as well as changes in the legislative and regulatory environment. In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty in the ultimate settlement of the liabilities gross of reinsurance include inadequate loss development

176

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

patterns, plaintiffs’ expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures before reinsurance, factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty in gross reserves include expanding theories of liabilities and damages, the risks inherent in major litigation, inconsistent decisions concerning the existence and scope of coverage for environmental claims, and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured.
(Favorable) Unfavorable Prior Accident Year Development

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ---- - ----- - -----
 For the years ended December 31,
 2020 2019 2018
Workers’ compensation $ (110) $ (120) $ (164)

Workers’ compensation discount accretion 35 33 40
General liability 237 61 52
Marine 3 8 —
Package business (58) (47) (26)
Commercial property (4) (11) (12)
Professional liability (14) 29 (12)
Bond (19) (3) 2
Assumed reinsurance (6) 3 —
Automobile liability - Commercial Lines 27 27 (15)
Automobile liability - Personal Lines (61) (38) (18)
Homeowners 7 3 (25)
Net asbestos reserves (2) — —
Net environmental reserves — — —

Catastrophes (529) (42) (49)
Uncollectible reinsurance (8) (30) 22
Other reserve re-estimates, net 54 46 38

Prior accident year development, including full benefit for the ADC cession (448) (81) (167)
Change in deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance included in other liabilities [1] 312 16 —
Total prior accident year development $ (136) $ (65) $ (167)

[1] The change in deferred gain for the year ended December 31, 2020 included $210 of adverse development on accident year catastrophes, and assumed reinsurance.
2020 re-estimates of prior accident year reserves
Workers’ compensation reserves were reduced on national account business within middle & large commercial, driven by lower than previously estimated claim severity for the 2015 and prior accident years, including on captives business, and were reduced in small commercial due to lower than expected claim severity for the 2013 to 2018 accident years.
General liability reserves were increased primarily due to a $254 increase in reserves for sexual molestation and sexual

abuse claims related to cases brought against religious and other organizations that were insureds of the Company, partly offset by a decrease in reserves for other mass torts and extra contractual liability claims. The sexual molestation and sexual abuse exposures may involve potentially long latency periods and may implicate coverage in multiple policy periods, which can raise complex coverage issues with significant effects on the ultimate scope of coverage. This increase in reserves reflects an increase in claim incidence largely due to reviver statutes, which is legislation passed in a number of states that provides an opportunity for claimants to file claims for a period of time despite the fact that the original statute of limitations had expired. The reserve increase in 2020 was principally from claims asserted against the Boy Scouts of America (“Boy Scouts”). The reserve increase for Boy Scouts was partially driven by the impact of claim filings on and around the November 16, 2020 deadline to file claims in the Boy Scouts’ Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Various subsidiaries of the Company issued primary, umbrella and excess general liability policies to the Boy Scouts for various policies periods between 1971 and 1983, including seven years of primary coverage from 1971 through 1977. However, it is the Company’s position that the 1976 and 1977 primary policy years were fully released and all the Company’s obligations extinguished by virtue of a prior settlement agreement with Boy Scouts. Further, the Company disputes the extent of its obligations to Boy Scouts and the validity of certain claims filed against Boy Scouts in the bankruptcy. As such, there are significant uncertainties regarding the ultimate number and severity of the claims against Boy Scouts, the potential for additional reviver activity, and the inherent risks associated with legal determinations to be made by the bankruptcy court and in coverage litigation.
In addition, general liability reserve increases on construction account business were largely offset by decreases in ULAE reserves. Reserves were increased for guaranteed cost construction business for accident years 2014 to 2019 as incurred losses are developing higher than previously expected for premises and operations claims and product liability claims, partly due to a change in industry mix and a heavier concentration of losses in California than initially assumed, as well as increased reserves for middle market and complex liability claims for accident year 2018 largely due to higher than expected severity. Also contributing were increases in reserves on primary layer construction account business within global specialty, mainly related to accident years 2015 to 2017, which is included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Marine reserves were increased principally due to an increase in domestic marine liability, mostly in accident years 2017 and 2018 due to a higher number of large losses. The increase in marine reserves is included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Package business reserves decreased for accident years 2014 to 2017 largely due to lower estimates of allocated loss adjustment expenses.
Commercial property reserves were decreased for accident year 2019 due to favorable developments on marine and middle market property claims.

177

----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 Note 12 - Reserves For Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Professional liability reserves were decreased primarily due to lower estimated severity on non-security class action D&O claims and fewer than expected E&O claims with financial institutions for the 2011 to 2018 accident years, partially offset by an increase in D&O reserves for the 2019 accident year driven by higher frequency of class action lawsuits and an increase in large Syndicate D&O losses for the 2016 and 2017 accident years. These Syndicate reserve increases within global specialty are included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Bond reserves were reduced within contract surety driven by both favorable loss development on the 2015 to 2017 accident years and higher than expected loss recoveries on older accident years
Assumed reinsurance reserves were increased for accident year 2018 mostly due to higher accident and health reserve estimates for medical professionals on assumed casualty business. These reserve increases are included as a component of the change in deferred gain under retroactive reinsurance in the above table.
Automobile liability reserves were decreased in Personal Lines principally due to lower than previously expected AARP Direct automobile liability claim severity for the 2017 to 2019 accident years. Automobile liability reserves were increased in Commercial Lines primarily due to higher than expected large losses within middle & large commercial, predominantly within the 2015 to 2019 accident years.
Catastrophes reserves were reduced, primarily due to a reduction in estimated reserves for 2017 and 2018 California wildfires and a reduction in estimated catastrophes for wind and hail events in the 2017 to 2019 accident years, partially offset by an increase in reserves for 2019 typhoons Hagibis and Faxai in Asia. The reduction in reserves for the 2017 and 2018 wildfires was largely due to recognizing a $289 subrogation benefit in the second quarter of 2020 from PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (together, “PG&E”) as well as a reduction in gross estimated losses on those wildfires.
In December, 2019, the judge overseeing the bankruptcy of PG&E approved an $11 billion settlement of insurance subrogation claims to resolve all such claims arising from the 2017 Northern California wildfires and 2018 Camp wildfire. That settlement was contingent upon, among other things, the judge entering an order confirming PG&E’s chapter 11 bankruptcy plan (“PG&E Plan”) incorporating the settlement agreement. On June 20, 2020, the bankruptcy court judge approved the PG&E Plan and PG&E subsequently transferred the $11 billion settlement amount to a trust designed to allocate and distribute the settlement among subrogation holders, including certain of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. In the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded an estimated $289 subrogation benefit though the ultimate amount it collects will depend on how the Company’s ultimate paid claims subject to subrogation compare to other insurers’ ultimate paid claims subject to subrogation.
Uncollectible reinsurance reserves were reduced due to higher than expected recoveries from reinsurers in older accident years.

Asbestos and environmental reserves were reviewed in fourth quarter 2020 resulting in a $218 increase in reserves before ADC reinsurance, including $127 for asbestos and $91 for environmental. Of the $218 increase in A&E reserves, the Company ceded $220 to the A&E ADC resulting in a net reserve release of $2. Of the $220 of adverse development ceded to the A&E ADC, the Company recognized a $210 deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance, representing the amount of losses ceded to the ADC in excess of ceded premium paid. For additional information related to the adverse development cover with NICO, see the Adverse Development Covers section below and Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies.
Other reserve re-estimates, net, primarily represents an increase in unallocated loss adjustment expense (']:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[").
For the year ended December 31, 2020 the Company recorded a tax benefit of $8 related to the excess tax over GAAP basis on the sale of the continental Europe operations. Refer to Note 22 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations.
The federal audits for the Company have been completed through 2013, and the Company is not currently under federal examination made in the Company']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement