================================================================================
CIK: 0000075677
Company Name: PACKAGING CORP OF AMERICA
Filing Date: 2023-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 12:13:59
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) or in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project in any forward-looking statement.

Risks Related to our Operations, Business and Industry

General Economic Conditions - A continued deterioration in general economic conditions may harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. General global and domestic economic conditions directly affect the levels of demand and production of consumer goods, levels of employment, the availability and cost of credit, and ultimately, the demand for our products and the profitability of our business. The U.S. economy has experienced persistent inflation, and we have experienced, and continue to experience, cost inflation across our business. Inflation has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher production and transportation costs, which we may not be able to recover through higher prices charged to our customers or otherwise. Interest rates have increased, which may result in lower consumer demand and higher borrowing costs, and may cause general economic conditions to deteriorate. Beginning in mid-2022, we have experienced a deterioration in operating conditions involving our Packaging business as a result of general economic conditions and our customers lowering their inventories. This has resulted in lower demand for our containerboard and corrugated products and lower production, which is continuing into 2023 and has negatively affected our profitability. If global economic conditions continue to deteriorate, economies could experience a recession, which may result in higher unemployment rates, lower disposable income, lower Company earnings and investment, and lower consumer spending. These factors may result in continued lower demand for our products and negatively affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.

In addition, changes in trade policy, including renegotiating or potentially terminating existing bilateral or multilateral agreements as well as the imposition of tariffs, could impact global markets and demand for our and our customers’ products and the costs associated with certain of our capital investments. Further changes in tax laws or tax rates may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. These conditions are beyond our control and may have a material impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

11

Industry Cyclicality - Changes in the prices of our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in industry capacity can create changes in prices, sales volumes, and margins for most of our products, particularly commodity grades of packaging and paper products. Prices for all of our products are driven by many factors, including demand for our products, industry capacity and decisions made by other producers with respect to capacity and production, and other competitive conditions in our industry. These factors are affected by general global and domestic economic conditions, customer purchasing decisions, and operating conditions involving our business and industry. We have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes of our products, which may be unpredictable and volatile. In addition, as many of our customer contracts include price adjustment provisions based upon published surveyed prices for containerboard or certain grades of UFS papers reported by trade publications, our selling prices are influenced by price levels determined and published by trade publications. Published containerboard prices have decreased beginning in the fourth quarter of 2022, which will result in lower prices for our containerboard and corrugated products and lower profitability. Changes in how these surveyed price levels are determined or maintained may affect our sales prices. If supply exceeds demand, operating conditions involving our business and industry continue to deteriorate, or other factors result in lower prices for our products, our earnings, and operating cash flows would be harmed.

Competition - The intensity of competition in the industries in which we operate could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and operating cash flows. Our industries are highly competitive, with no single containerboard, corrugated packaging, or UFS paper producer having a dominant position. Certain containerboard grades and UFS paper products cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. The corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality, and service. To the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. Our packaging products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood, and various types of metal. If we are unable to successfully compete, we may lose market share or may be required to charge lower sales prices for our products, both of which would reduce our earnings and operating cash flows.

UFS paper products compete with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. Increasing shifts to electronic alternatives have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on usage of these products. As a result of such competition, the industry is experiencing decreasing demand for existing UFS paper products. As the use of these alternatives grows, demand for UFS paper products is likely to further decline. Declines in demand for our paper products may adversely affect our earnings and operating cash flows.

Some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency, or lower operating costs, compared to our company. We may be unable to compete effectively with these companies particularly during economic downturns. Some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors into the markets we serve, increased competition from overseas producers, our competitors' pricing strategies, changes in customer preferences, and the cost-efficiency of our facilities.

Cost of Fiber - An increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. The market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source, and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and transportation of wood fiber. The cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather, general logging conditions, geography, and regulatory activity.

The availability and cost of recycled fiber depends heavily on recycling rates and the domestic and global supply and demand for recycled products. We purchase recycled fiber for use at six of our containerboard mills and a small amount at our paper mill. In 2022, we purchased approximately 765,000 tons of recycled fiber at our containerboard mills, net of the recycled fiber generated by our corrugated box plants. The amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber.

Periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past, including during 2022. Prices for recycled fiber may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, and a significant increase could result in higher costs and lower earnings. A $10 per ton price increase in recycled fiber for our containerboard mills would result in approximately $8 million of additional expense based on 2022 consumption.

12

Cost of Purchased Fuels and Chemicals - An increase in the cost of purchased fuels and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. We are experiencing significant cost inflation and volatility for key inputs such as fuels and chemicals. We have the ability to use various types of purchased fuels in our manufacturing operations, including natural gas, bark, and other purchased fuels. Fuel prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated in the past. New and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, reduce the availability of, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels, such as natural gas, which represents the majority of our purchased fuels. In addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing operations also fluctuate. These fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. If fuel and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase and cause higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings if we are unable to recover such increases through higher prices of our products or other means. A $0.10 per million MMBTU increase in natural gas prices would result in approximately $3 million of additional expense, based on 2022 usage.

Customer Concentration - We rely on certain large customers. Our packaging and paper segments each have large customers, the loss of which could adversely affect the segment’s sales and profitability. In particular, because our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for renewal of existing business. The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our financial results.

ODP Corporation ("ODP"), formerly Office Depot, Inc., along with its subsidiaries and affiliates, is our largest customer in the Paper segment. Effective January 1, 2023, we have a new agreement with ODP in which we will continue to supply commodity and non-commodity office papers through December 31, 2024. If the agreement is not renewed by the parties, ODP’s obligation to purchase paper would phase down over a two-year period beginning January 1, 2025.

In 2022, sales to ODP represented 48% of our Paper segment sales and 4% of our consolidated sales. If these sales are reduced, including if we are unable to renew the agreement at historical volume levels, we would need to find new customers. We may not be able to fully replace any lost sales, and any new sales may be at lower prices or higher costs. Any significant deterioration in the financial condition of ODP affecting its ability to pay or any other change that makes ODP less willing to purchase our products will harm our Paper business and results of operations.

Transportation Costs - Reduced truck and rail availability could lead to higher costs or poorer service, resulting in lower earnings, and harm our ability to distribute our products. We ship our products primarily by truck and rail. We have at times experienced lower availability of third-party trucking services, including truck and driver shortages, and service issues, interruptions, and delays in rail services, which are exacerbated in periods of high demand for such services. These issues became more pronounced in 2021 and persisted at times during 2022. While we have generally been able to manage through these issues and have not experienced material disruptions in our ability to serve our customers, these issues have resulted in significantly higher costs for transportation services. If these factors persist, we could experience even higher transportation costs in the future and difficulties shipping our products in a timely manner. We may not be able to recover higher transportation costs through higher prices or otherwise, which would result in lower earnings.

Material Disruption of Operations - A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a significant period of time due to a number of events, including:

•
Unscheduled maintenance outages.

•
Prolonged power failures.

•
Equipment or information system breakdowns or failures.

•
Explosion of a boiler or other major facilities.

•
Disruption in the supply of raw materials, such as wood fiber, energy, or chemicals.

•
A spill or release of pollutants or hazardous substances.

•
Closure or curtailment related to environmental concerns.

•
Labor difficulties.

•
Disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks, and tunnels.

•
Terrorism or threats of terrorism.

13

•
The effect of a pandemic or other health event, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.

•
Other operational problems.

These events could harm our ability to produce our products and serve our customers and may lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. Our business was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and measures to control it during the last three years, which included travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and standards affecting employers such as mask mandates, vaccine mandates, and testing protocols. PCA experienced some disruptions as a result of labor shortage issues due to the pandemic between 2020 and mid-2022. The pandemic also disrupted supply chains and transportation services.

Extreme Weather Events - Our facilities are susceptible to extreme weather events, which could disrupt our business. Extreme weather events like hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and winter storms have caused disruptions to our business both directly and indirectly in recent history. Climate change may increase the frequency and intensity of these extreme weather events. Certain weather events may cause damage to our facilities and require us to temporarily halt operations. These types of events may also disrupt our customers' and suppliers’ operations. Disruptions to the supply chain may cause the cost of goods to temporarily increase. Damage to our facilities may cause insurance premiums to increase and also require us to incur additional costs to mitigate future risks.

ESG - We may not achieve or make satisfactory progress on our goals and targets to reduce emissions and satisfy other ESG metrics. Investors, governmental authorities, and other interested parties have recently focused on ESG matters, including with respect to climate change, greenhouse gas emissions, and sustainable business practices. This increased awareness with respect to ESG matters, including climate change, is expected to result in more prescriptive reporting requirements with respect to ESG metrics and expectations that companies establish goals and commitments regarding ESG metrics and take actions to achieve those goals and commitments.

We have voluntarily established targets and goals with respect to greenhouse gas emissions, which are discussed elsewhere in this report under the caption "Regulatory and Environmental Matters" in "Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K. Our ability to achieve those targets and goals will depend on certain factors beyond our control, including regulatory actions, emergence of and advances in technology, and availability of required products and services. Our efforts to achieve ESG targets and goals may result in higher costs and capital expenditures with a low return on investment and may distract management efforts from other operational matters. We may not achieve or make satisfactory progress on our ESG goals and targets. If we are unable to meet these goals and targets, our reputation with investors, customers and other stakeholders and businesses may be harmed.

Reliance on Personnel - We may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, including key management personnel. Our ability to operate and grow our business depends on our ability to attract and retain employees with the skills necessary to operate and maintain our facilities, produce our products and serve our customers. The increasing demand for qualified personnel may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may make it difficult for us to replace retiring employees at our manufacturing and other facilities. U.S. labor market conditions remain tight and labor shortages were exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. We have experienced higher than historical employee turnover in certain of our facilities. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience labor shortages, we may experience higher costs and other difficulties, and our business may be adversely impacted.

In addition, we rely on key executive and management personnel to manage our business efficiently and effectively. As our business has grown in size and geographic scope, we have relied on these individuals to manage increasingly complex operations. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our business.

Cybersecurity - Risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. We rely on various information technology and process control systems to capture, process, store, and report data, operate our manufacturing and converting facilities, and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating, and internal and independent third-party assessments, our information technology and process control systems, and those of our third-party providers, could become subject to cyber-attacks or security breaches. Network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers and vendors to conduct business with us. Misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. Delayed shipments, slowed production, or other issues resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or operating cash flows.

14

Environmental Matters - PCA may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. We are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines, which may be significant, or other adverse regulatory action. Because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. New and more stringent environmental regulations may be adopted and may require us to incur additional operating expenses and/or significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers and other equipment. In addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. Although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures.

Labor Relations- If we experience strikes or other work stoppages, our business will be harmed. Our workforce is highly unionized and operates under various collective bargaining agreements. We must negotiate to renew or extend any union contracts that have recently expired or are expiring in the near future. While we believe that we have satisfactory labor relations, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new agreements without work stoppages or labor difficulties in the future or renegotiate them on favorable terms. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.

Financial Risks

Inflation and Other General Cost Increases - We may not be able to offset higher costs. We are subject to both contractual, inflationary, and other general cost increases, including with regard to our labor costs and purchases of raw materials and transportation services. General economic conditions have resulted in higher inflation, which has led to higher costs across our business. If we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflationary and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity.

In 2022, our total company costs including cost of sales (COS) and selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) was $7.0 billion, and excluding non-cash costs (depreciation, depletion and amortization, pension and postretirement expense, and share-based compensation expense) was $6.5 billion. A 1% increase in COS and SG&A costs would increase costs by $70 million and cash costs by $65 million.

Debt obligations - Our debt service obligations may reduce our operating flexibility. At December 31, 2022, we had $2.5 billion of debt outstanding and a $321 million undrawn revolving credit facility, after deducting letters of credit. All debt is comprised of fixed-rate senior notes. We and our subsidiaries are not restricted from incurring, and may incur, additional indebtedness in the future.

Our current borrowings, plus any future borrowings, may affect our ability to operate our business, including, without limitation:

•
Result in significant cash requirements to make interest and maturity payments on our outstanding indebtedness;

•
Increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in our business or industry conditions;

•
Increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates;

•
Limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate, and other purposes;

•
Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and

•
Limit our flexibility to make acquisitions.

Further, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions to secure additional cash by selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing investments, which may not be achievable on acceptable terms or at all.

15

Pension Plans – Our pension plans may require additional funding. We record a liability associated with our pensions equal to the excess of the benefit obligations over the fair value of the assets funding the plans. The actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. Fluctuations in the market performance of our plan assets will affect our pension plan costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels, or mortality will also increase or decrease pension costs.

Market Price of our Common Stock - The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of the stock to decline. Securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations due to macroeconomic factors and other factors beyond our control. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market, or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock with little regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

Item 2. PROPERTIES

We own and lease properties in our business. Primarily all of our leases are non-cancelable and are accounted for as operating leases. These leases are not subject to early termination except for standard nonperformance clauses.

Information regarding our principal operating facilities, the segments that use those facilities, and a map of geographical locations is presented in “Part I, Item 1. Business” of this Form 10-K. We assess the condition and capacity of our manufacturing, distribution, and other facilities needed to meet our operating requirements. Our properties have been generally well maintained and are in good operating condition. In general, our facilities have sufficient capacity and are adequate for our production and distribution requirements.

As of December 31, 2022, we own buildings and land for our eight mills. Additionally, we have 89 corrugated manufacturing operations, of which the buildings and land for 53 are owned, including 45 combining operations, or corrugated plants, one corrugated sheet-only manufacturer, and seven sheet plants. We lease the buildings for 13 corrugated plants and 23 sheet plants. We own warehouses and miscellaneous other properties, including sales offices and woodlands management offices. We lease space for regional design centers and numerous other distribution centers, warehouses, and facilities. The equipment in these leased facilities is, in virtually all cases, owned by us, except for forklifts and other rolling stock, which are generally leased.

We own our corporate headquarters building, which is located in Lake Forest, Illinois.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Information concerning legal proceedings can be found in Note 20, Commitments, Guarantees, Indemnifications, and Legal Proceedings, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

16

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market Information

PCA’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PKG”.

Stockholders

On February 17, 2023, there were 142 holders of record of our common stock.

Purchases of Equity Securities

Share Repurchase Program

On January 26, 2022, PCA announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $1 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws. At the time of the announcement, there was no remaining authority under previously announced programs. Repurchases may be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities regulations. The timing and amount of repurchases will be determined by the Company in its discretion based on factors such as PCA’s stock price and market and business conditions.

During the third and fourth quarters of 2022, we paid $523 million, including fees, to repurchase 4.0 million shares of common stock. At December 31, 2022, $477 million of the authorized amount remained available for repurchase of the Company's common stock. All shares repurchased have been retired. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we paid $193 million, including fees, to repurchase 1.4 million shares of common stock, which was the entire remaining amount of repurchase authority we had under previously announced share repurchase programs. The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2020.

Pursuant to its equity incentive plan, the Company withholds shares from vesting employee equity awards to cover employee tax liabilities. We withheld 110,827 shares in 2022 to cover $15.4 million in employee tax liabilities, 95,437 shares in 2021 to cover $12.9 million in employee tax liabilities, and 107,627 shares in 2020 to cover $10.5 million in employee tax liabilities.

The following table presents information related to our repurchases of common stock made under repurchase plans authorized by PCA's Board of Directors, and shares withheld to cover taxes on vesting of equity awards, during the three months ended December 31, 2022:

------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ --------- ------------------------------ - ------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ - -----
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (a) AveragePrice PaidPer Share (b) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs ApproximateDollar Valueof Shares ThatMay Yet BePurchased Underthe Plans or Programs(in millions)
October 1-31, 2022 333,321 $ 118.83 333,200 $ 818.4
November 1-30, 2022 2,073,127 125.70 2,073,127 557.8
December 1-31, 2022 597,185 134.59 596,700 477.5
Total 3,003,633 $ 126.70 3,003,027 $ 477.5

(a)
Includes 606 shares withheld from employees to cover income and payroll taxes on equity awards that vested during the period.

(b)
Excludes commissions.

17

Performance Graph

The graph below compares PCA’s cumulative 5-year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index; the S&P Midcap 400 index; and a customized peer group of two companies that includes: International Paper and WestRock Company. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment (including the reinvestment of all dividends) in our common stock, in each index, and in each peer group's common stock from December 31, 2017 through December 31, 2022. The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

-------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- - ----- ---- - ------ ---- ------ ---- - ------ - ------
 Cumulative Total Return
 December 31,
 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Packaging Corporation of America $ 100.00 $ 71.14 $ 98.42 $ 125.25 $ 127.27 $ 123.91
S&P 500 100.00 95.62 125.72 148.85 191.58 156.89
S&P Midcap 400 100.00 88.92 112.21 127.54 159.12 138.34
Peer Group 100.00 67.94 81.26 89.63 92.95 73.08

The information in the graph and table above is not deemed “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of PCA’s filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except to the extent that PCA specifically incorporates such information by reference.

Item 6. [RESERVED]

18

Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of historical results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the notes thereto which appear elsewhere in this Form 10-K. This discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding our expectations with respect to our future performance, liquidity, ESG goals, and capital resources. Such statements, along with any other non-historical statements in the discussion, are forward-looking. See our discussion regarding forward-looking statements included under “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K. For our discussion and analysis of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020, the earliest of the years presented in the accompanying audited financial statements included in Item 8 herein, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2022. Such information is presented in Item 7 of such report under the subcaptions “Results of Operations —Year Ended December 31, 2021, Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2020” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and is incorporated by reference herein.

Overview

PCA is the third largest producer of containerboard products and a leading producer of uncoated freesheet paper in North America. We operate eight mills and 89 corrugated products manufacturing plants. Our containerboard mills produce linerboard and corrugating medium, which are papers primarily used in the production of corrugated products. Our corrugated products manufacturing plants produce a wide variety of corrugated packaging products, including conventional shipping containers used to protect and transport manufactured goods, multi-color boxes and displays with strong visual appeal that help to merchandise the packaged product in retail locations, and honeycomb protective packaging. In addition, we are a large producer of packaging for meat, fresh fruit and vegetables, processed food, beverages, and other industrial and consumer products. We also manufacture and sell UFS papers, including both commodity and specialty papers, which may have custom or specialized features such as colors, coatings, high brightness, and recycled content. We are headquartered in Lake Forest, Illinois and operate primarily in the United States.

Executive Summary

Net sales were $8.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 and $7.7 billion for 2021. We reported $1,030 million of net income, or $11.03 per diluted share, in 2022, compared to $841 million, or $8.83 per diluted share, in 2021. Net income included $10 million of expense for special items in 2022, compared to $53 million of expense for special items in 2021. Special items in both periods are described later in this section. Excluding special items, we recorded $1,040 million of net income, or $11.14 per diluted share, in 2022, compared to $894 million, or $9.39 per diluted share, in 2021. The increase was driven primarily by higher prices and mix in our Packaging and Paper segments, partially offset by lower volumes in our Packaging and Paper segments, higher operating and converting costs, higher freight and logistic expenses, and higher annual outage expense. For additional detail on special items included in reported GAAP results, as well as segment income (loss) excluding special items, earnings before non-operating pension expense, interest, income taxes, and depreciation, amortization, and depletion (EBITDA), and EBITDA excluding special items, see “Item 7. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts.” PCA ended the year with $470 million of cash and marketable debt securities and, including borrowing availability under its revolving credit facility, $791 million in liquidity.

Packaging segment income from operations was $1,424 million in 2022, compared to $1,306 million for 2021. Packaging segment EBITDA excluding special items was $1,849 million in 2022, compared to $1,688 million in 2021. The increase was driven primarily by higher containerboard and corrugated products prices and mix, partially offset by lower sales and production volumes, higher operating and converting costs, higher freight and logistic expenses, and higher annual outage expense. Packaging volumes remained strong at or above 2021 levels through the middle of the year. Volume then began to decline as general economic conditions deteriorated and our customers began to reduce their inventories and orders accordingly, which has resulted in lower demand for our products. Overall, our corrugated products shipments were down 3.4% for the year as those trends continued through the second half of the year. In order to achieve appropriate production levels for our demand and necessary inventory levels, we reduced our production of containerboard at our packaging mills during the second half of the year. For more information on our containerboard production and corrugated products shipments, refer to the table presented under the caption "Production and Shipments" in "Part I, Item 1. Business" of this Form 10-K. After increasing throughout 2021 and through the first three quarters of 2022, containerboard prices published by industry publications began to decline during the fourth quarter of 2022. We continued to experience cost inflation across our business, including in the areas of labor and benefits, chemicals, energy, repairs, materials, and supplies, as well as higher transportation costs. Over the past several years, we made extensive capital investments throughout the packaging segment to improve productivity and efficiencies at our containerboard mills and corrugated products facilities and believe that our success in execution of these capital investments has helped us to mitigate cost inflation and better serve our customers.

19

Paper segment income from operations was $103 million in 2022, compared to $39 million in 2021. Paper segment EBITDA excluding special items was $132 million in 2022, compared to $72 million in 2021. The increase was due primarily to higher paper prices and mix and lower operating costs, partially offset by lower sales and production volumes, higher annual outage expense, and higher freight and logistic expenses. The Jackson mill produced only containerboard, and no paper products, during 2022, which drove lower sales and production volumes.

We have undertaken activities to convert the Jackson mill from production of paper products, which the mill historically produced, to production of containerboard. For more information, see the Packaging caption in "Part I, Item 1. Business" and Note 1, Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K.

Special Items and Earnings per Diluted Share, Excluding Special Items

Earnings per diluted share, excluding special items, in 2022 and 2021 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- - ---- ---- ----- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Earnings per diluted share $ 11.03 $ 8.83
Special items:
Jackson mill conversion-related activities (a) 0.11 0.11
Facilities closure and other costs (income) (b) 0.01 (0.03 )
Acquisition and integration-related activities (c) (0.01 ) 0.01
Debt refinancing (d) — 0.47
Total special items expense 0.11 0.56
Earnings per diluted share, excluding special items $ 11.14 $ 9.39

(a)
For 2022 and 2021, includes $14.1 million and $14.0 million, respectively, of charges related to the announced discontinuation of production of uncoated freesheet paper grades on the No. 3 machine at the Jackson, Alabama mill associated with the permanent conversion of the machine to produce linerboard and other paper-to-containerboard conversion related activities.

(b)
For 2022, includes $0.7 million of charges consisting of closure costs related to corrugated products facilities. These costs were partially offset by insurance proceeds received for a natural disaster at one of the corrugated products facilities, a gain on sale of assets related to a corrugated products facility, and a favorable lease buyout for a closed corrugated products facility. For 2021, includes $3.6 million of income primarily consisting of an adjustment of the required asset retirement obligation related to the 2020 closure of the San Lorenzo, California facility, a gain on sale of transportation assets and corrugated products facilities, and insurance proceeds received for a natural disaster at one of the corrugated products facilities, partially offset by closure costs related to corrugated products facilities.

(c)
For 2022, includes $1.0 million of income from a favorable inventory adjustment related to the December 2021 Advance Packaging Corporation acquisition, partially offset by acquisition and integration related costs. For 2021, includes $0.9 million of charges for acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition.

(d)
Includes $58.9 million of costs related to the Company's debt refinancing completed in October 2021, which included a redemption premium and the write-off of the remaining balance of unamortized debt issuance costs.

Management excludes special items, as it believes these items are not necessarily reflective of the ongoing results of operations of our business. We present these measures because they provide a means to evaluate the performance of our segments and our company on an ongoing basis using the same measures that are used by our management, because these measures assist in providing a meaningful comparison between periods presented and because these measures are frequently used by investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies and the performance of their segments. A reconciliation of diluted earnings per share to diluted earnings per share excluding special items is included above and the reconciliations of other non-GAAP measures used in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with GAAP, are included later in Item 7 under “Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts.” Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be done in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be substitutes for GAAP financial measures and should not be used as such.

20

Industry and Business Conditions

Trade publications reported North American industry-wide corrugated products shipments were down 3.8% during 2022, compared to 2021. Reported industry containerboard production decreased 5.2% compared to 2021, and reported industry containerboard inventories at the end of 2022 were approximately 2.7 million tons, down 2.1% compared to 2021. Reported containerboard export shipments decreased 7.7% compared to 2021. Prices reported by trade publications increased by $60 per ton for linerboard and $70 per ton for corrugating medium in March 2022. Prices decreased $20 per ton for linerboard and $40 per ton for corrugating medium in November, followed by an additional decrease in December of $20 per ton each. In January 2023, prices decreased $10 per ton for linerboard and $30 per ton for corrugating medium.

The market for communication papers competes heavily with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. Increasing shifts to these alternatives have reduced usage of traditional print media and communication papers. Trade publications reported North American uncoated freesheet paper shipments were flat in 2022, compared to 2021. Average prices reported by a trade publication for cut size office papers increased $40 per ton in February and March 2022, $90 per ton in May 2022, and $65 per ton in September 2022. The average price was higher by $259, or 22%, in 2022 compared to 2021.

Outlook

For the first quarter of 2023, in our Packaging segment we expect corrugated products demand on a per day basis to be similar to fourth quarter levels, although we expect higher total volume as there are four additional shipping days compared to the fourth quarter of 2022. Prices for containerboard and corrugated products are expected to decrease as a result of the recent decreases in the published domestic containerboard prices, and prices for containerboard in export markets are expected to be lower as well. We expect slightly higher paper prices on flat sales volume. Labor costs and certain indirect costs will increase as some containerboard mill operations were temporarily idled during the fourth quarter and resumed operations during the first quarter. In addition, we anticipate higher labor and benefits costs and other timing-related expenses that occur at the beginning of a new year as well as higher prices for many chemicals, particularly starch and caustic soda. However, we expect lower wood and recycled fiber prices, lower energy prices, and lower scheduled maintenance outage expenses during the first quarter when compared to the fourth quarter of 2022. Lastly, we expect higher interest and non-operating pension expenses and a higher tax rate, but we expect to benefit on an earnings per share basis from recent share repurchases. Considering these items, we expect first quarter earnings to be lower than the fourth quarter of 2022.

Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2022, Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2021

The historical results of operations of PCA for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are set forth below (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- - ---- - ------- ------ - ----- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 Change
Packaging $ 7,780.7 $ 7,052.6 $ 728.1
Paper 622.1 599.7 22.4
Corporate and other and eliminations 75.2 78.0 (2.8 )
Net sales $ 8,478.0 $ 7,730.3 $ 747.7
Packaging $ 1,423.7 $ 1,306.0 $ 117.7
Paper 103.0 39.1 63.9
Corporate and other (106.0 ) (103.7 ) (2.3 )
Income from operations 1,420.7 1,241.4 179.3
Non-operating pension income 14.5 19.7 (5.2 )
Interest expense, net (70.4 ) (152.4 ) 82.0
Income before taxes 1,364.8 1,108.7 256.1
Income tax expense (335.0 ) (267.6 ) (67.4 )
Net income $ 1,029.8 $ 841.1 $ 188.7
Net income excluding special items (a) $ 1,040.2 $ 893.8 $ 146.4
EBITDA (a) $ 1,877.5 $ 1,658.9 $ 218.6
EBITDA excluding special items (a) $ 1,885.5 $ 1,665.4 $ 220.1

(a)
See “Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts” included in this Item 7 for a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measure.

21

Net Sales

Net sales increased $748 million, or 9.7%, to $8,478 million in 2022, compared to $7,730 million in 2021.

Packaging. Net sales increased $728 million, or 10.3%, to $7,781 million, compared to $7,053 million in 2021, due to higher prices and mix ($963 million), partially offset by lower volumes ($235 million). In 2022, our domestic containerboard prices increased 12.0% and export prices increased 16.0% compared to 2021. Our containerboard outside shipments decreased 12.2%, and total corrugated products shipments were down 3.4% in total and per workday, compared to 2021.

Paper. Net sales increased $22 million, or 3.7%, to $622 million, compared to $600 million in 2021. The increase was due to higher prices and mix ($96 million), partially offset by lower volume ($74 million).

Gross Profit

Gross profit increased $218 million in 2022, compared to 2021. The increase was driven primarily by higher prices and mix in our Packaging and Paper segments, partially offset by lower volumes in our Packaging and Paper segments, higher operating and converting costs, higher freight and logistic expense, and higher annual outage expense. In 2022, gross profit included $7 million of special items expense related to Jackson mill conversion-related activities, corrugated facility closure costs, and income related to acquisition and integration-related activities, compared to $7 million of special items expense related to Jackson mill conversion-related activities, corrugated facility closure costs, and corrugated facility acquisition costs in 2021.

Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) increased $32 million in 2022 compared to 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher information technology expenses, outside services, travel, and employee salaries and fringe benefits.

Other Expense, Net

Other expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are set forth below (dollars in millions):

---------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- - ---- - ----- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Asset disposals and write-offs $ (44.5 ) $ (38.9 )
Jackson mill conversion-related activities (6.9 ) (8.9 )
Facilities closure and other income (costs) 0.1 6.5
Acquisition and integration-related activities — (0.6 )
Other (10.0 ) (12.9 )
Total $ (61.3 ) $ (54.8 )

We discuss these items in more detail in Note 7, Other Expense, Net of the Condensed Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements” of this Form 10-K.

Income from Operations

Income from operations increased $179 million, or 14.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021. Income from operations in 2022 included $14 million of expense for special items compared to $11 million in 2021. Special items in 2022 consisted of $14 million of expense for Jackson mill conversion-related activities, $1 million of corrugated facility closure costs, and $1 million of income related to acquisition and integration-related activities. 2021 special items included $14 million of expense for Jackson mill conversion-related costs and other paper-to-containerboard conversion-related activities, $1 million of expense related to the acquisition of Advance Packaging, and $4 million of income related to corrugated products facility closures.

Packaging. Segment income from operations increased $118 million to $1,424 million, compared to $1,306 million in 2021. The increase in 2022 related primarily to higher containerboard and corrugated products prices and mix ($842 million), partially offset by lower containerboard and corrugated products sales and production volumes ($166 million), higher operating and converting costs ($394 million), higher freight expense ($105 million), higher depreciation expense ($40 million), higher annual outage expense ($13 million), and other costs ($5 million). Special items in 2022 included $5 million of expense for Jackson mill conversion-related activities, corrugated facility closure costs, and income related to acquisition and integration-related activities. Special items in 2021 included $4 million of expense for Jackson mill conversion-related activities, $1 million of expense related to the acquisition of Advanced Packaging, and $3 million of income related to corrugated products facility closures.

22

Paper. Segment income from operations increased $64 million to $103 million, compared to $39 million in 2021. The increase, excluding special items, primarily related to higher paper prices and mix ($98 million), lower operating costs ($4 million), and lower depreciation expense ($3 million), partially offset by lower sales and production volumes ($27 million), higher annual outage expense ($8 million), higher freight expense ($4 million), and other costs ($2 million). Special items in the Paper segment included $9 million of expense for Jackson mill conversion-related activities in 2022 and 2021.

Non-Operating Pension Expense, Interest Expense, Net and Income Taxes

During 2022, non-operating pension income decreased $5 million compared to 2021. The decrease in non-operating pension expense was primarily related to assumption changes, partially offset by favorable 2021 asset performance.

Interest expense, net, during 2022 decreased $82 million compared to 2021. The decrease in interest expense, net in 2022 was primarily due to higher charges ($59 million) in the prior year related to the Company's October 2021 debt refinancing, lower interest rates on the Company's fixed-rate debt ($8 million) as a result of the Company's debt refinancing, higher interest income ($8 million) due to higher rates on invested cash balances, and higher capitalized interest ($4 million) related to the Company's increased levels of capital expenditures in 2022.

During 2022, we recorded $335 million of income tax expense, compared to $268 million of income tax expense during 2021. The effective tax rate for 2022 and 2021 was 24.5% and 24.1%, respectively. The higher effective tax rate for 2022 was primarily due to higher nondeductible employee remuneration paid to covered employees.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources and Uses of Cash

Our primary sources of liquidity are net cash provided by operating activities and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. We ended the year with $320 million of cash and cash equivalents, $150 million of marketable debt securities, and $321 million of unused borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility, net of letters of credit. Currently, our primary uses of cash are for operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service, common stock dividends, and repurchases of common stock. We believe that net cash generated from operating activities, cash on hand, available borrowings under our revolving credit facility and available capital through access to capital markets will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital requirements, including payments of any declared common stock dividends, for the foreseeable future. As our debt or credit facilities become due, we will need to repay, extend or replace such facilities. Our ability to do so will be subject to future economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.

Below is a summary table of our cash flows, followed by a discussion of our sources and uses of cash through operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities (dollars in millions):

----------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- - ---- - ------- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Net cash provided by (used for):
Operating activities $ 1,495.0 $ 1,094.1
Investing activities (833.7 ) (794.4 )
Financing activities (960.0 ) (655.6 )
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (298.7 ) $ (355.9 )

Operating Activities

Our operating cash flow is primarily driven by our earnings and changes in operating assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, as well as other factors described below. Cash requirements for operating activities are subject to PCA's operating needs and the timing of collection of receivables and payments of payables and expenses.

23

During 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $1,495 million, compared to $1,094 million for 2021, an increase of $401 million. Cash from operations excluding changes in cash used for operating assets and liabilities increased $199 million, primarily due to higher income from operations as discussed above. Cash increased by $202 million due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily due to the following:

a)
a favorable change in accounts receivable levels in 2022 compared to 2021 due to lower sales volumes in the Packaging segment during the latter portion of 2022, partially offset by higher pricing in the Packaging and Paper segments in 2022; and

b)
a net favorable change in inventories in 2022 due to a smaller increase in Packaging segment inventory levels in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily in raw materials and finished goods.

These favorable changes were partially offset by:

a)
an unfavorable change in accounts payable in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to lower Packaging production and sales volumes, which resulted in lower purchasing and manufacturing activities in 2022; and

b)
an unfavorable change in our income tax receivables due to higher tax payments in 2022.

Investing Activities

We used $834 million for investing activities in 2022, compared to $794 million in 2021. In 2022, we spent $824 million for internal capital investments, compared to $605 million in 2021. During 2021, we acquired Advance Packaging Corporation for $193 million, including a purchase price adjustment based upon net working capital.

The details of capital expenditures for property and equipment, excluding acquisitions, by segment for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are included in the table below (dollars in millions).

------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Packaging $ 753.5 $ 562.5
Paper 14.1 30.1
Corporate and Other 56.6 12.5
 $ 824.2 $ 605.1

We expect capital investments in 2023 to be approximately $475 million. These expenditures could increase or decrease as a result of a number of factors, including our financial results, strategic opportunities, future economic conditions, and our regulatory compliance requirements. We currently estimate capital expenditures to comply with environmental regulations will be about $20 million in 2023. Our estimated environmental expenditures could vary significantly depending upon the enactment of new environmental laws and regulations. For additional information, see “Environmental Matters” in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Financing Activities

In 2022, net cash used for financing activities was $960 million, compared to $656 million of cash used for financing activities in 2021, an increase of $304 million. We paid $420 million in dividends on our common stock in 2022, compared to $380 million paid in 2021. We repurchased and retired 4.0 million shares of the Company's common stock for $523 million in 2022, compared to repurchases of 1.4 million shares for $193 million in 2021. In 2021, we issued $700 million of 3.05% Senior Notes due 2051 (the "New Notes"), the proceeds of which were used to redeem $700 million of 4.50% Senior Notes due 2023 in October 2021. We also paid $8 million of debt issuance costs associated with the 2021 debt refinancing and $1 million of debt issuance costs related to the New Revolving Credit Agreement that was entered into on June 8, 2021.

See Note 11, Debt, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for more information on the debt refinancing.

24

Commitments

Contractual Obligations

Our cash requirements greater than twelve months from contractual obligations and commitments include:

•
Debt obligations and interest payments. See Note 11, Debt, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for more information on our debt obligations and interest payments and the timing of expected future payments.

•
Operating and finance leases. See Note 3, Leases, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for more information on our lease obligations and the timing of expected future payments.

•
Asset retirement obligations. See Note 14, Asset Retirement Obligations, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for more information on our asset retirement obligation at the end of the period.

•
Capital additions. See Note 20, Commitments, Guarantees, Indemnifications, and Legal Proceedings, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for more information on our approved capital projects with future spending in connection with the expansion and replacement of existing facilities and equipment.

•
Purchase commitments. Purchase commitments relate to various purchase agreements for items such as minimum amounts of energy and fiber purchases. See Note 20, Commitments, Guarantees, Indemnifications, and Legal Proceedings, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for more information on our purchase commitments and the timing of expected future payments.

•
Employee benefit obligations. See Note 13, Employee Benefits Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for more information on our employee benefit obligations and the timing of expected future benefit payments under our pension plans and postretirement plans.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2022.

Inflation and Other General Cost Increases

We are subject to both contractual, inflation, and other general cost increases. If we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflation and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity.

In 2022, our total company costs including and share-based compensation expense) was $6.5 billion. A 1% increase in COS and SG&A costs would increase costs by $70 million and cash costs by $65 million.

Certain items of product input costs have historically been subject to more cost volatility including fiber, purchased energy, and chemicals.

25

Energy

Our mills represent about 90% of our total purchased fuel costs. In 2022, our Packaging and Paper mills consumed about 91 million MMBTUs of fuel, including internally generated and externally purchased, to produce both steam and electricity. The following table for 2022 provides the total MMBTUs purchased externally by fuel type each quarter and the average cost per MMBTU by fuel type for the year. The cost per MMBTU includes the cost of the fuel plus our transportation and delivery costs.

--------------------- ---------------------------------------- --- ------------- --- ------------ ------------- -------- --- ----------- ---- - ----
 2022 Fuel Purchased (millions of MMBTUs) 2022 Avg.
Fuel Type FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter FullYear Cost /MMBTU
Natural gas 7.6 6.4 5.0 5.3 24.3 $ 7.17
Purchased bark 1.6 1.7 2.0 2.1 7.4 2.36
Other purchased fuels 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.6 8.29
Total mills 9.3 8.3 7.1 7.6 32.3 $ 6.09

In addition, the mills purchased 22.00 million CkWh (hundred kilowatt-hours) of electricity in 2022. The purchases by quarter and the average cost per CkWh were as follows:

--------------------- --------------------------------------------- --- ------------- --- ------------ ------------- -------- --- ---------- ---- - ----
 2022 Purchased Electricity (millions of CkWh) 2022 Avg.
 FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter FullYear Cost /CkWh
Purchased electricity 5.7 5.8 5.5 5.0 22.0 $ 6.86

Regulatory and Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to our compliance with the laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, primarily in the United States. Of particular importance are laws and regulations relating to the environment and health and safety matters.

Environmental compliance requirements are a significant factor affecting our business. We employ processes in the manufacture of containerboard, paper, and pulp, which result in various discharges, emissions and waste disposal. These processes are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. We operate and expect to continue to operate, under environmental permits and similar authorizations from various governmental authorities that regulate such discharges, emissions, and waste disposal. The most significant of these laws affecting the Company are:

•
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA);

•
Clean Water Act (CWA);

•
Clean Air Act (CAA);

•
The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know-Act (EPCRA);

•
Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA); and

•
Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA).

We believe that we are currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. Because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, the Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. The Company works diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations and does not currently expect that future environmental compliance obligations will materially affect its business or financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we spent $50 million, and for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we spent $44 million, to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. Additionally, we had $11 million of environmental capital expenditures in 2022, $10 million in 2021, and $9 million in 2020.

In January 2013, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) established a three-year deadline for compliance with the Boiler MACT regulations, establishing air emissions standards and certain other requirements for industrial boilers. PCA's compliance actions involved modifying or replacing certain boilers, and all PCA mills are in full compliance with Boiler MACT requirements. On July 29, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a ruling on the consolidated cases challenging Boiler MACT. The court vacated key portions of the rule, including emission limits for certain subcategories of solid fuel boilers, and remanded issues to the EPA for further rulemaking. At this time, we cannot predict with certainty how this decision will impact our existing Boiler MACT compliance efforts or whether we will incur additional costs to comply with any revised standards.

26

As is the case with any industrial operation, PCA has, in the past, incurred costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination, as required by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as the federal “Superfund” law, and analogous state laws. Cleanup requirements arise with respect to properties the Company currently owns or operates, former facilities and off-site facilities where the Company has disposed of hazardous substances. As part of the sale to PCA of the containerboard and corrugated products business of Pactiv Corporation in April 1999, Pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal. Pactiv also retained environmentally impaired real property in Filer City, Michigan unrelated to current mill operations. In addition, OfficeMax (now an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of ODP) retains responsibility for certain environmental liabilities related to some of the businesses, facilities, and assets we acquired from Boise. Generally, this responsibility relates to hazardous substance releases and other environmental incidents that arose before 2004. Some of these liabilities could be significant; however, ODP may not have sufficient funds to satisfy its indemnification obligations, and in some cases, we may not be entitled to such indemnification.

Because liability for remediation costs under environmental laws is strict, meaning that liability is imposed without fault, joint and several, meaning that liability is imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive, PCA could receive notifications of cleanup liability in the future and this liability could be material. From 2006 through 2022, there were no significant environmental remediation costs at PCA's mills and corrugated plants. As of December 31, 2022, we maintained an environmental reserve of $25.2 million relating to on-site landfills and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects. The Company believes that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenses above the $25.2 million accrued at December 31, 2022, will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

While legislation regarding the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions has been proposed at the federal level, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be passed and, if so, what the breadth and scope of such legislation will be. The result of the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could be an increase in our future environmental compliance costs through carbon cap and trade systems, carbon or other related taxes, or additional capital expenditures to modify facilities to reduce carbon emissions, which may be material. However, climate change legislation and the resulting future energy policy could also provide us with opportunities if the use of renewable energy is encouraged. We currently self-generate the majority of our power requirements at our mills using renewable biogenic fuel such as bark, black liquor and biomass, which are derived from renewable resources. While we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of any renewable energy incentives, it is uncertain what the ultimate costs and opportunities of any climate change legislation will be and how our business and industry will be affected.

We are seeking to further improve our environmental impact by setting goals to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) greenhouse gas emissions by 35% by 2030 from a 2021 baseline year and to reach net-zero carbon emissions within our own operations and our value chain by 2050. In addition, we and our industry support the American Forest & Paper Association's goal of a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 2030 from a 2005 baseline. We have a carbon neutrality team, consisting of a cross-functional group of key operational, engineering, environmental, and sustainability personnel to lead our efforts. Our strategy to achieve greenhouse gas emissions reductions is premised upon the carbon neutrality of the biogenic fuels used in our operations and we believe that meaningful reductions in greenhouse gas emissions can be achieved through investment in more efficient operations utilizing carbon-neutral fuels and in emerging and advancing technologies. We regularly work to identify and implement projects that will improve our efficiency. To what extent and when we embark upon major capital projects to reduce emissions will depend in part upon technology advancements, emerging regulatory and tax policies involving greenhouse gas emissions and incentives to invest in projects that reduce emissions. We also regularly assess the use of alternative, non-emitting energy sources at our own facilities (such as solar) and opportunities to support additive carbon-free grid power via renewable energy certificates (RECs) and power purchase agreements (PPAs), where feasible to do so, and partnering with utilities to procure carbon-free power where opportunities exist. We annually report key data to our stakeholders regarding our greenhouse gas emissions, among other things, in our responsibility report. Our responsibility report is available on our website and is not intended to be incorporated by reference herein.

We are also subject to extensive federal, state and local laws related to workplace health and safety, and our safety management system includes measures to assure compliance with these laws and regulations. We do not believe that future compliance with health and safety laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

27

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, PCA evaluates its estimates, including those related to business combinations, goodwill and intangible assets, pensions and other postretirement benefits, environmental liabilities, income taxes, and long-lived asset impairment, among others. PCA bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Critical accounting estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results. These estimates require management's most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. We review the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies, the following involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity:

Pensions

The Company accounts for defined benefit pension plans in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits. The calculation of pension expense and pension liabilities requires decisions about a number of key assumptions that can significantly affect expense and liability amounts, including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, expected rate of compensation increases, longevity and service lives of participants, expected contributions, and other factors. The pension assumptions used to measure pension expense and liabilities are discussed in Note 13, Employee Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K.

We recognize the funded status of our pension plans on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and recognize the actuarial and experienced gains and losses and the prior service costs and credits as a component of “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss” in our Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. Actual results that differ from assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect recognized expense in future periods. At December 31, 2022, we had approximately $100.3 million of actuarial losses and prior service costs, net of tax, recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Accumulated losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of assets will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees in PCA plans (which is between six and nine years) and over the average remaining lifetime of inactive participants of Boise plans (which is between 22 and 25 years), to the extent that losses are not offset by gains in subsequent years. While we believe that the assumptions used to measure our pension obligations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may materially affect our pension obligations and future expense.

We believe that the accounting estimate related to pensions is a critical accounting estimate because it is highly susceptible to change from period to period. As discussed above, the future effects of pension plans on our financial position and results of operations will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, retirement rates, investment performance, and funding decisions, among other factors. The following table presents selected assumptions used and expected to be used in the measurement of pension expense in the following periods (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------- ------------------------ ---- - ----------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- -
 Year Ending December 31, Year Ended December 31,
 2023 2022 2021
Pension expense $ 22.7 $ 5.3 $ 2.1
Assumptions
Discount rate 5.06 % 2.89 % 2.57 %
Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.52 % 4.08 % 4.91 %

28

A change of 0.25% in either direction to the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have had the following effect on 2022 and 2023 pension expense (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------- ------------ ---- ----------------------------------------- - ---- -------------- - ---
 Increase (Decrease) in Pension Expense(a)
 Base Expense 0.25% Increase 0.25% Decrease
 2022
Discount rate $ 5.3 $ (1.8 ) $ 1.6
Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.3 (3.4 ) 3.4
 2023
Discount rate $ 22.7 $ (2.0 ) $ 2.2
Expected rate of return on plan assets 22.7 (2.6 ) 2.6

(a)
The sensitivities shown above are specific to 2022 and 2023. The sensitivities may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown.

For more information related to our pension benefit plans, see Note 13, Employee Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

New and Recently Adopted Accounting Standards

For a listing of our new and recently adopted accounting standards, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts

Net income excluding special items, EBITDA, and EBITDA excluding special items are non-GAAP financial measures. Management excludes special items, as it believes that these items are not necessarily reflective of the ongoing operations of our business. These measures are presented because they provide a means to evaluate the performance of our segments and our Company on an ongoing basis using the same measures that are used by our management, because these measures assist in providing a meaningful comparison between periods and because these measures are frequently used by investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies and the performance of their segments. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be done in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be substitutes for GAAP financial measures and should not be used as such. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 follow (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- - ----------- - ------ --------- - ------------------ - ----------- ------- - --------- - ------ - - ----- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 Incomebefore Taxes IncomeTaxes NetIncome Incomebefore Taxes IncomeTaxes NetIncome
As reported in accordance with GAAP $ 1,364.8 $ (335.0 ) $ 1,029.8 $ 1,108.7 $ (267.6 ) $ 841.1
Special items:
Jackson mill conversion-related activities (a) 14.1 (3.5 ) 10.6 14.0 (3.5 ) 10.5
Facilities closure and other costs (income) (b) 0.7 (0.2 ) 0.5 (3.6 ) 0.9 (2.7 )
Acquisition and integration-related activities (c) (1.0 ) 0.3 (0.7 ) 0.9 (0.2 ) 0.7
Debt refinancing (d) — — — 58.9 (14.7 ) 44.2
Total special items 13.8 (3.4 ) 10.4 70.2 (17.5 ) 52.7
Excluding special items $ 1,378.6 $ (338.4 ) $ 1,040.2 $ 1,178.9 $ (285.1 ) $ 893.8

(a)
For 2022 and 2021, includes charges linerboard and other paper-to-containerboard conversion related activities.

29

(b)
For 2022, includes charges consisting of closure costs related to corrugated products facilities. These costs were partially for a closed corrugated products facility. For 2021, includes income primarily consisting of an adjustment of the required asset retirement obligation related to the 2020 closure of the San Lorenzo, California by closure costs related to corrugated products facilities.

(c)
For 2022, includes income from a favorable inventory adjustment related to the December 2021 Advance Packaging Corporation acquisition, partially offset by acquisition and integration related costs. For 2021, includes charges for acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition.

(d)
Includes costs related to the Company's debt refinancing completed in October 2021, which included a redemption premium and the write-off of the remaining balance of unamortized debt issuance costs.

The following table reconciles net income to EBITDA and EBITDA excluding special items for the periods indicated (dollars in millions):

---------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- - ---- - ------- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Net income $ 1,029.8 $ 841.1
Non-operating pension income (14.5 ) (19.7 )
Interest expense, net 70.4 152.4
Provision for income taxes 335.0 267.6
Depreciation, amortization, and depletion 456.8 417.5
EBITDA $ 1,877.5 $ 1,658.9
Special items:
Jackson mill conversion-related activities $ 8.6 $ 9.9
Facilities closure and other costs (income) 0.4 (4.3 )
Acquisition and integration-related activities (1.0 ) 0.9
EBITDA excluding special items $ 1,885.5 $ 1,665.4

30

The following table reconciles segment income (loss) to EBITDA and EBITDA excluding special items (dollars in millions):

---------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- - ---- - ------- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Packaging
Segment income $ 1,423.7 $ 1,306.0
Depreciation, amortization, and depletion 420.2 381.0
EBITDA 1,843.9 1,687.0
Jackson mill conversion-related activities 5.3 4.3
Facilities closure and other costs (income) 0.4 (3.5 )
Acquisition and integration-related activities (1.0 ) 0.4
EBITDA excluding special items $ 1,848.6 $ 1,688.2

Paper
Segment income $ 103.0 $ 39.1
Depreciation, amortization, and depletion 26.1 27.4
EBITDA 129.1 66.5
Jackson mill conversion-related activities 3.3 5.2
EBITDA excluding special items $ 132.4 $ 71.7

Corporate and Other
Segment loss $ (106.0 ) $ (103.7 )
Depreciation, amortization, and depletion 10.5 9.1
EBITDA (95.5 ) (94.6 )
Acquisition and integration-related activities — 0.5
Jackson mill conversion-related activities — 0.4
Facilities closure and other income — (0.8 )
EBITDA excluding special items $ (95.5 ) $ (94.5 )
EBITDA $ 1,877.5 $ 1,658.9
EBITDA excluding special items $ 1,885.5 $ 1,665.4

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 11]:
 Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[PART II

Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

['s common stock from December 31, 2017 through December 31, 2022. The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

-------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- - ----- ---- - ------ ---- ------ ---- - ------ - ------
 Cumulative Total Return
 December 31,
 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Packaging Corporation of America $ 100.00 $ 71.14 $ 98.42 $ 125.25 $ 127.27 $ 123.91
S&P 500 100.00 95.62 125.72 148.85 191.58 156.89
S&P Midcap 400 100.00 88.92 112.21 127.54 159.12 138.34
Peer Group 100.00 67.94 81.26 89.63 92.95 73.08

The information in the graph and table above is not deemed “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of PCA’s filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except to the extent that PCA specifically incorporates such information by reference.

Item 6. [RESERVED]

18

Item 7. MANAGEMENT']:
Item 6. [Reserved] 43

[ "Part I, Item 1. Business"]:
Item 1 Business 1

[ "Part I, Item 1. Business"]:
Item 1 Business 1

[ "Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[" of this Form 10-K for more information on the debt refinancing.

24

Commitments

Contractual Obligations

Our cash requirements greater than twelve months from contractual obligations and commitments include:

•
Debt obligations and interest payments. See Note 11, Debt, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[" of this Form 10-K for more information on our debt obligations and interest payments and the timing of expected future payments.

•
Operating and finance leases. See Note 3, Leases, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of of the fair value involves ---------------------------------------...

[" of this Form 10-K for more information on our lease obligations and the timing of expected future payments.

•
Asset retirement obligations. See Note 14, Asset Retirement Obligations, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we ---------------------------------------...

[" of this Form 10-K for more information on our asset retirement obligation at the end of the period.

•
Capital additions. See Note 20, Commitments, Guarantees, Indemnifications, and Legal Proceedings, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[" of this Form 10-K for more information on our approved capital projects with future spending in connection with the expansion and replacement of existing facilities and equipment.

•
Purchase commitments. Purchase commitments relate to various purchase agreements for items such as minimum amounts of energy and fiber purchases. See Note 20, Commitments, Guarantees, Indemnifications, and Legal Proceedings, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[" of this Form 10-K for more information on our purchase commitments and the timing of expected future payments.

•
Employee benefit obligations. See Note 13, Employee Benefits Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits, of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

["Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K. Our ability to achieve those targets and goals will depend on certain factors beyond our control, including regulatory actions, emergence of and advances in technology, and availability of required products and services. Our efforts to achieve ESG targets and goals may result in higher costs and capital expenditures with a low return on investment and may distract management efforts from other operational matters. We may not achieve or make satisfactory progress on our ESG goals and targets. If we are unable to meet these goals and targets, our reputation with investors, customers and other stakeholders and businesses may be harmed.

Reliance on Personnel - We may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, including key management personnel. customers. The increasing demand for qualified personnel may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may make it difficult for us to replace retiring employees at our manufacturing and other facilities. U.S. labor market conditions remain tight and labor shortages were exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. We have experienced difficulties, and our business may be adversely impacted.

In addition, we rely on key executive and management personnel to manage our business efficiently and effectively. As our business has grown in size and geographic scope, we have relied on these individuals to manage increasingly complex operations. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our business.

Cybersecurity - Risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. We rely on various information technology and process control systems to capture, process, store, and report data, operate our manufacturing and converting facilities, and interact with customers, vendors, those of our third-party providers, could become subject to cyber-attacks or security breaches. Network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers and vendors to conduct business with us. Misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. Delayed shipments, slowed production, or other issues resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or operating cash flows.

14

Environmental Matters - PCA may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. We are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines, which may be significant, or other adverse regulatory action. Because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. New and more stringent environmental regulations may be adopted and may require us to incur additional operating expenses and/or significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers and other equipment. In addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. Although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures.

Labor Relations- If we experience strikes or other work stoppages, our business will be harmed. Our workforce is highly unionized and operates under various collective bargaining agreements. We must negotiate to renew or extend any union contracts that have recently expired or are expiring in the near future. While we believe that we have satisfactory labor relations, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new agreements without work stoppages or labor difficulties in the future or renegotiate them on favorable terms. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.

Financial Risks

Inflation and Other General Cost Increases - We may not be able to offset higher costs. We are subject to both contractual, inflationary, and other general cost increases, including with regard to our labor costs and purchases of raw materials and transportation services. General economic conditions have resulted in higher inflation, which has led to higher costs across our business. If we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflationary and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity.

In 2022, our total company costs including cost of sales (COS) and selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) was $7.0 billion, and excluding non-cash costs (depreciation, depletion and amortization, pension and postretirement expense, and share-based compensation expense) was $6.5 billion. A 1% increase in COS and SG&A costs would increase costs by $70 million and cash costs by $65 million.

Debt obligations - Our debt service obligations may reduce our operating flexibility. At December 31, 2022, we had $2.5 billion of debt outstanding and a $321 million undrawn revolving credit facility, after deducting letters of credit. All debt is comprised of fixed-rate senior notes. We and our subsidiaries are not restricted from incurring, and may incur, additional indebtedness in the future.

Our current borrowings, plus any future borrowings, may affect our ability to operate our business, including, without limitation:

•
Result in significant cash requirements to make interest and maturity payments on our outstanding indebtedness;

•
Increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in our business or industry conditions;

•
Increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates;

•
Limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate, and other purposes;

•
Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and

•
Limit our flexibility to make acquisitions.

Further, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions to secure additional cash by selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing investments, which may not be achievable on acceptable terms or at all.

15

Pension Plans – Our pension plans may require additional funding. We record a liability associated with our pensions equal to the excess of the benefit obligations over the fair value of the assets funding the plans. The actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. Fluctuations in the market performance of our plan assets will affect our pension plan costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels, or mortality will also increase or decrease pension costs.

Market Price of our Common Stock - The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of the stock to decline. Securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations due to macroeconomic factors and other factors beyond our control. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market, or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock with little regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

Item 2. PROPERTIES

We own and lease properties in our business. Primarily all of our leases are non-cancelable and are accounted for as operating leases. These leases are not subject to early termination except for standard nonperformance clauses.

Information regarding our principal operating facilities, the segments that use those facilities, and a map of geographical locations is presented in “Part I, Item 1. Business” of this Form 10-K. We assess the condition and capacity of facilities have sufficient capacity and are adequate for our production and distribution requirements.

As of December 31, 2022, we own buildings and land for our eight mills. Additionally, we have 89 corrugated manufacturing operations, of which the buildings and land for 53 are owned, including 45 combining operations, or corrugated plants, one corrugated sheet-only manufacturer, and seven sheet plants. We lease the buildings for 13 corrugated plants and 23 sheet plants. We own warehouses and miscellaneous other properties, including sales offices and woodlands management offices. We lease space for regional design centers and numerous other distribution centers, warehouses, and facilities. The equipment in these leased facilities is, in virtually all cases, owned by us, except for forklifts and other rolling stock, which are generally leased.

We own our corporate headquarters building, which is located in Lake Forest, Illinois.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Information concerning legal proceedings can be found in Note 20, Commitments, Guarantees, Indemnifications, and Legal Proceedings, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

16

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT']:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[' Equity. Actual results that differ from assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect recognized expense in future periods. At December 31, 2022, we had approximately $100.3 million of actuarial losses and prior service costs, net of tax, recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive is between 22 and 25 years), to the extent that losses are not offset by gains in subsequent years. While we believe that the assumptions used to measure our pension obligations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may materially affect our pension obligations and future expense.

We believe that the accounting estimate related to pensions is a critical accounting estimate because it is highly susceptible to change from period to period. As discussed above, the future effects of pension plans on our financial position and results of operations will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, retirement rates, investment performance, and funding decisions, among other factors. The following table presents selected assumptions used and expected to be used in the measurement of pension expense in the following periods (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------- ------------------------ ---- - ----------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- -
 Year Ending December 31, Year Ended December 31,
 2023 2022 2021
Pension expense $ 22.7 $ 5.3 $ 2.1
Assumptions
Discount rate 5.06 % 2.89 % 2.57 %
Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.52 % 4.08 % 4.91 %

28

A change of 0.25% in either direction to the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have had the following effect on 2022 and 2023 pension expense (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------- ------------ ---- ----------------------------------------- - ---- -------------- - ---
 Increase (Decrease) in Pension Expense(a)
 Base Expense 0.25% Increase 0.25% Decrease
 2022
Discount rate $ 5.3 $ (1.8 ) $ 1.6
Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.3 (3.4 ) 3.4
 2023
Discount rate $ 22.7 $ (2.0 ) $ 2.2
Expected rate of return on plan assets 22.7 (2.6 ) 2.6

(a)
The sensitivities shown above are specific to 2022 and 2023. The sensitivities may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown.

For more information related to our pension benefit plans, see Note 13, Employee Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

New and Recently Adopted Accounting Standards

For a listing of our new and recently adopted accounting standards, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts

Net income excluding special items, EBITDA, and EBITDA excluding special items are non-GAAP financial measures. Management excludes special items, as to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 follow (dollars in millions):

-------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- - ----------- - ------ --------- - ------------------ - ----------- ------- - --------- - ------ - - ----- -
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 Incomebefore Taxes IncomeTaxes NetIncome Incomebefore Taxes IncomeTaxes NetIncome
As reported in accordance with GAAP $ 1,364.8 $ (335.0 ) $ 1,029.8 $ 1,108.7 $ (267.6 ) $ 841.1
Special items:
Jackson mill conversion-related activities (a) 14.1 (3.5 ) 10.6 14.0 (3.5 ) 10.5
Facilities closure and other costs (income) (b) 0.7 (0.2 ) 0.5 (3.6 ) 0.9 (2.7 )
Acquisition and integration-related activities (c) (1.0 ) 0.3 (0.7 ) 0.9 (0.2 ) 0.7
Debt refinancing (d) — — — 58.9 (14.7 ) 44.2
Total special items 13.8 (3.4 ) 10.4 70.2 (17.5 ) 52.7
Excluding special items $ 1,378.6 $ (338.4 ) $ 1,040.2 $ 1,178.9 $ (285.1 ) $ 893.8

(a)
For 2022 and 2021, includes charges linerboard and other paper-to-containerboard conversion related activities.

29

(b)
For 2022, includes charges consisting of closure costs related to corrugated products facilities. These costs were partially facility, a gain on sale of transportation assets and corrugated products facilities, and insurance proceeds received for a natural disaster at one of the corrugated products facilities, partially offset by closure costs related to corrugated products facilities.

(c)
For 2022, includes income from a favorable inventory adjustment related to the December 2021 Advance Packaging Corporation acquisition, partially offset by acquisition and integration related costs. For 2021, includes charges for acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition.

(d)
Includes costs related to the Company']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement