================================================================================
CIK: 0000020286
Company Name: CINCINNATI FINANCIAL CORP
Filing Date: 2023-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 12:01:26
================================================================================

ITEM 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
 Results of Operations

Introduction
The purpose of Management’s Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporation’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. We present per share data on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted, adjusting those amounts for all stock splits and stock dividends.

We begin with an executive summary of our results of operations, followed by other highlights and details about critical accounting estimates. In several instances, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can provide information on our performance within the context of the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis for insurance company regulation in the United States of America. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).

Through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is one of the 25 largest property casualty insurers in the nation, based on net written premium volume for the first nine months of 2022, among approximately 2,000 U.S. stock and mutual insurer groups. We market our insurance products through a select group of independent insurance agencies in 46 states as discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy.

The U.S. economy, the insurance industry and our company continue to face many challenges. Our long-term perspective has allowed us to address immediate challenges while also focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. We believe that this forward-looking view consistently benefits our shareholders, agents, policyholders and associates.

To measure our progress, we have defined a measure of value creation that we believe captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders. We refer to this measure as our value creation ratio (VCR) and it is made up of two primary components: (1) our rate of growth in book value per share plus (2) the ratio of dividends declared per share to beginning book value per share. This measure, intended to be all-inclusive regarding changes in book value per share, uses originally reported book value per share in cases where book value per share has been adjusted, such as after the adoption of Accounting Standards Updates with a cumulative effect of a change in accounting.

The primary sources of our company’s net income are summarized below. We discuss contributions to net income and VCR by source in Corporate Financial Highlights, followed by more detailed discussion in Financial Results.

•Underwriting profit (loss) – Includes revenues from earned premiums for insurance and reinsurance policies or contracts, reduced by losses and loss expenses from associated insurance coverages. Those revenues are further reduced by underwriting expenses associated with marketing policies or related to administration of our insurance operations. The net result represents an underwriting profit when revenues exceed losses and expenses.
•Investment income – Is generated primarily from investing the premiums collected for insurance policies sold, until funds are needed to pay losses for insurance claims or other expenses. Interest income from bonds or dividend income from stocks are the main categories of our investment income, with additional contribution from compounding effects over time.
•Investment gains and losses – Occur from appreciation or depreciation of invested assets over time. Gains or losses are generally recognized from changes in market values of equity securities without a sale or when invested assets are sold or become impaired.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 47

Executive Summary
Our value creation ratio, defined above, is our primary performance target. VCR trends are shown in the table below.

----------------------- ------- - ------------------- ---- ------------------ ---- -
 Oneyear Three-year% average Five-year% average
Value creation ratio:
As of December 31, 2022 (14.6) % 8.6 % 11.2 %
As of December 31, 2021 25.7 23.6 18.7
As of December 31, 2020 14.7 15.0 16.5

We are targeting an annual value creation ratio averaging 10% to 13% over the next five-year period. At negative 14.6% for 2022, our performance was significantly below the low end of that range. It was within the range for the five-year period, but below the range for the three-year period, both that ended in December 2022.

The table below shows the primary components of our value creation ratio on a percentage basis. Analysis of the components aids understanding of our financial performance. Our financial results are further analyzed in the Corporate Financial Highlights section below.

------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ - --------- ----- --------- ---------- - ---------- ------ -----
 Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Pt. Change Pt. Change
Value creation ratio major components:
Net income before investment gains 5.2 % 9.7 % 5.5 % (4.5) 4.2
Change in fixed-maturity securities, realized and unrealized gains (10.1) (1.5) 3.0 (8.6) (4.5)
Change in equity securities, investment gains (9.3) 16.8 7.5 (26.1) 9.3
Other (0.4) 0.7 (1.3) (1.1) 2.0
Value creation ratio (14.6) % 25.7 % 14.7 % (40.3) 11.0

The 2022 value creation ratio decreased by 40.3 percentage points, compared with 2021, and again included a significant contribution from operating results, as shown in the table above. The 2022 ratio decrease was primarily due to a reduction in overall net gains from our investment portfolio, with reductions of 26.1 percentage-points from our equity securities investment portfolio and 8.6 points from our fixed-maturity securities investment portfolio. The increase in 2021, compared with 2020, included improved operating results and a higher valuation for our investment portfolio.

We believe our value creation ratio is a useful measure. The table below shows calculations for VCR.

--------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - - -----
(Dollars are per share) Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Value creation ratio:
End of period book value* $ 67.01 $ 81.72 $ 67.04
Less beginning of period book value 81.72 67.04 60.55
Change in book value (14.71) 14.68 6.49
Dividend declared to shareholders 2.76 2.52 2.40
Total value creation $ (11.95) $ 17.20 $ 8.89

Value creation ratio from change in book value** (18.0) % 21.9 % 10.7 %
Value creation ratio from dividends declared to shareholders*** 3.4 3.8 4.0
Value creation ratio (14.6) % 25.7 % 14.7 %

 * Book value per share is calculated by dividing end of period total shareholders' equity by end of period shares outstanding
 ** Change in book value divided by the beginning of year book value
*** Dividend declared to shareholders divided by beginning of year book value

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 48

When looking at our longer-term objectives, we see three primary performance drivers for our value creation ratio:
•Premium growth – We believe over any five-year period our agency relationships and initiatives can lead to a property casualty written premium growth rate that exceeds the industry average. The compound annual growth rate of our net written premiums was 8.6% over the five-year period 2018 through 2022, exceeding the 7.3% estimated growth rate for the property casualty insurance industry, with 2022 representing industry data reported through the first nine months of 2022. The industry’s growth rate excludes its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business.
•Combined ratio – We believe our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can drive performance to achieve our underwriting profitability target of a GAAP combined ratio over any five-year period that consistently averages within the range of 95% to 100%. Our GAAP combined ratio averaged 94.9% over the five-year period 2018 through 2022, slightly better than the performance target range. Performance as measured by the combined ratio is discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results. Our statutory combined ratio averaged 94.3% over the five-year period 2018 through 2022, compared with an estimated 99.7% for the property casualty industry, with 2022 representing industry data reported through the first nine months of 2022. The industry’s ratio again excludes its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business.
•Investment contribution – We believe our investment philosophy and initiatives can drive investment income growth and lead to a total return on our equity investment portfolio over a five-year period that exceeds the five-year total return of the S&P 500 Index.
◦Investment income growth, on a pretax basis, had a compound annual growth rate of 5.1% over the five-year period 2018 through 2022.
◦Over the five years ended December 31, 2022, our equity portfolio compound annual total return was 11.1% compared with a compound annual total return of 9.4% for the Index. Our equity portfolio favors larger-capitalization, high-quality, dividend-growing stocks with a slight value orientation. For the year 2022, our equity portfolio total return was negative 10.9%, compared with negative 18.1% for the Index.

The board of directors is committed to rewarding shareholders directly through cash dividends and share repurchase authorizations. Through 2022, the company has increased the annual cash dividend rate for 62 consecutive years, a record we believe is matched by only seven other publicly traded U.S. companies. In addition to regular dividends, strong capital and excellent company performance has provided opportunities to further reward shareholders. The board regularly evaluates relevant factors in dividend-related decisions, and the 2022 increase to the regular dividend reflected confidence in our outstanding capital, liquidity and financial flexibility, as well as progress of our initiatives to improve earnings performance while growing insurance premium revenues. We discuss our financial position in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Our view of the shareholder value we can create over the next five years relies largely on three assumptions – each highly dependent on the external environment. First, we anticipate our property casualty average insurance prices will increase in proportion to, or in excess of, our loss cost trends. Second, we assume that the economy can maintain a long-term growth track. Third, we assume that valuations of our marketable securities will vary within a typical range over time, based on historical trends. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may not be able to achieve our performance targets even if we accomplish our strategic objectives.

We discuss in Item 1A, Risk Factors, many potential risks to our business and our ability to achieve our qualitative and quantitative objectives.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 49

Corporate Financial Highlights
In addition to the value creation ratio discussion and analysis in the Executive Summary, we further analyze our financial results in the sections below.

Balance Sheet Data

---------------------------------------- --------------- ------ --------------- ------ - ------
(Dollars in millions, except share data) At December 31, At December 31,
 2022 2021
Total investments $ 22,425 $ 24,666
Total assets 29,736 31,387
Short-term debt 50 54
Long-term debt 789 789
Shareholders' equity 10,531 13,105
Book value per share 67.01 81.72
Debt-to-total-capital ratio 7.4 % 6.0 %

Total investments decreased by 9% during 2022 on a fair value basis, and included a decrease in our securities portfolio valuation that offset a 6% increase in its cost basis. Entering 2023, we believe the portfolio continues to be well diversified and is well positioned to withstand short-term fluctuations. We discuss our investment strategy in Item 1, Investments Segment, and results for the segment in Investments Results. Total assets decreased by 5%, compared with year-end 2021. Shareholders’ equity decreased by 20% and book value per share decreased by 18%, for reasons discussed in the preceding Executive Summary.

The amount of our debt obligations decreased by $4 million in 2022, compared with 2021. Our 7.4% ratio of debt to total capital (debt plus shareholders’ equity) at year-end 2022 increased by 1.4 percentage points compared with the prior-year ratio.

Income Statement and Per Share Data

------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- -------- -------- ----- --- -- -
(In millions, except per share data) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Earned premiums $ 7,219 $ 6,482 $ 5,980 11 8
Investment income, net of expenses (pretax) 781 714 670 9 7
Investment gains and losses, net (pretax) (1,467) 2,409 865 nm 178
Total revenues 6,557 9,630 7,536 (32) 28
Net income (loss) (486) 2,946 1,216 nm 142
Comprehensive income (loss) (1,770) 2,825 1,537 nm 84
Net income (loss) per share - diluted (3.06) 18.10 7.49 nm 142
Cash dividends declared per share 2.76 2.52 2.40 10 5
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 158.8 162.7 162.4 (2) 0

A net loss of $486 million in 2022 represented a decrease of $3.432 billion, compared with net income for 2021, including a $3.062 billion reduction in net investment gains on an after-tax basis. The reduced 2022 net income also included a decrease in property casualty underwriting income of $467 million after taxes, as discussed below, and a $55 million increase in investment income after taxes. Our investment operation’s performance is discussed further in Investments Results. Net income in 2021 increased by $1.730 billion, compared with 2020, including a $1.220 billion increase for 2021 net investment gains after taxes. The increase in 2021 net income also included an increase in property casualty underwriting income of $483 million after taxes and a $37 million increase in investment income after taxes.

During 2022, SARS-CoV-2, also known as COVID-19 and recognized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization, continued to cause various effects in parts of the world. We believe it did not have a significant effect on our premium revenues during 2022 and there were no material changes to our estimates for incurred losses and expenses related to the pandemic. In 2021, it caused dampening economic effects in some areas where we

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 50

operate, while many areas experienced strengthening economic effects due to increased business activity and consumer spending. In 2020, it caused significant effects, including temporary closures of many businesses and reduced consumer spending due to shelter-in-place, stay-at-home and other governmental actions. Those orders and the uncertainty surrounding COVID-19 had broad financial market effects and caused significant market disruption and volatility, including to our investment portfolio during 2020.

As the pandemic unfolded in 2020 and continued into 2021, management met with the board of directors frequently to discuss matters such as our response to prioritize the health and safety of our associates, agents and policyholders. Discussion also included near-term and longer-term financial effects. As stay-at-home orders were enacted, we promptly and effectively transitioned most of our headquarters associates to working from home. We provided the technology necessary to keep the business running, as associates continued writing and collecting insurance premiums, responding to claims and performing other operational functions. They joined our field associates who already worked from home, providing agents and policyholders with outstanding service. At the end of 2021, most of our associates continued to work from home. During the first half of 2022, most of our headquarters associates transitioned to a hybrid work schedule, regularly alternating between work at our headquarters and work from remote locations.

While we believe the COVID-19 pandemic did not have a significant effect on our premium revenues for the last three quarters of 2021, in 2020 and early 2021 it slowed the growth of our premium revenues, including new business written premiums. Premium growth by segment is discussed below in Financial Results. For future periods, renewal premium or new business premium amounts could decline if the basis for policy premiums, such as sales and payrolls of businesses we insure, decrease as a result of the pandemic and a weakening economy. We are not able to determine premium effects for future periods.

During 2021, changes to our estimates for incurred losses and expenses related to the pandemic included a $2 million increase in Cincinnati Re® losses, a $1 million decrease in Cincinnati Global Underwriting Ltd.SM (Cincinnati Global) losses and an $8 million decrease in ultimate credit losses related to uncollectible premiums. For full-year 2020, pandemic-related incurred losses and expenses totaled $85 million. The total included $30 million for legal expenses in defense of business interruption claims, $19 million for Cincinnati Re losses, $12 million for Cincinnati Global losses, $8 million for credit losses related to uncollectible premiums and $16 million for the Stay-at-Home policyholder credit for personal auto policies.

Factors used in estimating reserves for business interruption legal expenses included estimates for attorney fees associated with the defense of such lawsuits filed against the company; litigation trends of such cases, including responding to amended and replead cases and cases on appeal; and trends in judicial decisions in cases filed against the company and other insurers.

Approximately half of the losses for Cincinnati Re represent its estimated share from reinsurance treaties with companies that provided affirmative coverage for pandemic-related business interruption, and most of the remainder is an estimated share of treaties covering professional liability. Most of the losses for Cincinnati Global represent its share of potential losses from business interruption coverage for large risks with customized policy terms and conditions.

Most of our commercial property policies are written to preclude coverage for business interruption claims unless there is direct physical loss or damage to property. For this reason, most of our standard market commercial property policies in states where we actively write business do not contain a specific virus exclusion.

Loss experience for our insurance operations is influenced by many factors, as discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves. Because of various factors that affect exposure to certain insurance losses, such as less miles driven for vehicles or reduced sales and payrolls for businesses, there could be a reduction in future losses, and in some cases a generally corresponding reduction in premiums. Also, there could be losses or legal expenses that increase or otherwise occur independently of changes in sales or payrolls of businesses we insure, due to pandemic effects or other factors. We are not able to determine loss effects for future periods.

As discussed in Investments Results, we reported a net investment loss in 2022, primarily due to a $1.526 billion net unfavorable change in fair value for equity securities still held. In both 2021 and 2020, we reported net investment gains, including $2.278 billion in 2021 and $841 million in 2020 from net favorable changes in fair value for equity securities still held.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 51

 Contribution from Insurance Operations

------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- ----- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Consolidated property casualty data:
Net written premiums $ 7,307 $ 6,479 $ 5,864 13 10
Earned premiums 6,924 6,184 5,691 12 9
Underwriting profit 140 731 119 (81) 514

 Pt. Change Pt. Change
GAAP combined ratio 98.1 % 88.3 % 98.1 % 9.8 (9.8)
Statutory combined ratio 97.7 87.9 96.7 9.8 (8.8)
Written premium to statutory surplus 1.1 0.9 1.0 0.2 (0.1)

Property casualty net written premiums grew 13% and earned premiums grew 12% in 2022. The growth reflected average renewal price increases, premium growth initiatives and a higher level of insured exposures, including a contribution to net written premium growth of 3 percentage points from Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global in total. The 2021 growth rate for net written premiums was slower, but was driven by factors similar to 2022. Trends and related factors are discussed in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results.

Our property casualty insurance operations generated an underwriting profit for each of the three years ending in 2022. The $591 million decrease in 2022, compared with excellent results in 2021, included higher current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses, reflecting increased uncertainty of estimated ultimate losses, due in part to elevated paid losses reflecting economic or other forms of inflation. The 2022 decrease also included a $135 million increase in losses from natural catastrophe events and $276 million less benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years before catastrophe losses. The $612 million increase in 2021, compared with 2020, included a $195 million decrease in losses from catastrophe events and $265 million more benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years before catastrophe losses.

We measure property casualty underwriting profitability primarily by the combined ratio. Our combined ratio measures the percentage of each earned premium dollar spent on claims plus all expenses related to our property casualty operations, all on a pretax basis. A lower ratio indicates more favorable results and better underlying performance. A ratio below 100% represents an underwriting profit. Initiatives to improve our combined ratio are discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Strategic Initiatives. In 2022, 2021 and 2020, favorable development on reserves for claims that occurred in prior accident years helped offset other incurred losses and loss expenses. Reserve development is discussed further in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. Losses from weather-related catastrophes are another important item influencing the combined ratio and are discussed along with other factors in Financial Results for our property casualty business and related segments.

Our life insurance segment reported a gain of $28 million in 2022 and a loss of $16 million in 2021. We discuss results for the segment in Life Insurance Results. Most of this segment’s investment income is included in our investments segment results. In addition to investment income, investment gains from the life insurance investment portfolio are also included in our investments segment results.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 52

Critical Accounting Estimates
Cincinnati Financial Corporation’s financial statements are prepared using U.S. GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the company’s critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting estimates, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate.

Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves
We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our property casualty insurance business as balance sheet liabilities. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are the estimated amounts necessary to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims. These reserves account for unpaid loss and loss expenses as of a financial statement date.

For some lines of business that we write, a considerable and uncertain amount of time can elapse between the occurrence, reporting and payment of insured claims. The amount we will actually have to pay for such claims also can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate. Gross loss and loss expense reserves were $8.336 billion at year-end 2022 compared with $7.229 billion at year-end 2021.

How Reserves Are Established
Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to the company to provide for our unpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with known claims. Field claims managers supervise and review all claims with case reserves less than $100,000. Additionally, a headquarters supervisor and regional claims manager review claims under $100,000 if litigation or a certain specialty claim is involved. All claims with case reserves of $100,000 or greater are reviewed and approved by experienced headquarters supervisors and regional claims managers. Upper-level headquarters claims managers also review case reserves of $175,000 or more.

Our claims representatives base their case reserve estimates primarily upon case-by-case evaluations that consider:
•type of claim involved
•circumstances surrounding each claim
•policy provisions pertaining to each claim
•potential for subrogation or salvage recoverable
•general insurance reserving practices

Case reserves of all sizes are subject to review on a 90-day cycle, or more frequently if new information about a loss becomes available. As part of the review process, we monitor industry trends, cost trends, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional loss exposures.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 53

We also establish IBNR reserves to provide for all unpaid loss and loss expenses not accounted for by case reserves:
•For events designated as natural catastrophes resulting in losses incurred related to premiums written on a direct basis by The Cincinnati Insurance Companies, we calculate IBNR reserves directly as a result of an estimated IBNR claim count and an estimated average claim amount for each event. Once case reserves are established for a catastrophe event, we reduce the IBNR reserves. Our claims department management coordinates the assessment of these events and prepares the related IBNR reserve estimates. Such an assessment involves a comprehensive analysis of the nature of the event, of policyholder exposures within the affected geographic area and of available claims intelligence. Depending on the nature of the event, available claims intelligence could include surveys of field claims representatives within the affected geographic area, feedback from a catastrophe claims team sent into the area, as well as data on claims reported as of the financial statement date.
To determine whether an event is designated as a catastrophe, related to premiums written on a direct basis by The Cincinnati Insurance Companies, we generally use the catastrophe definition provided by Property Claims Service (PCS), a division of Insurance Services Office. PCS defines a catastrophe as an event that causes U.S., Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands damage of $25 million or more in insured property losses and affects a significant number of policyholders and insureds.
•For events designated as natural catastrophes resulting in losses for Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, we begin with a review of in-force policies, treaties and related limits likely to be affected by each event. For both Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, use of information from third-party catastrophe models, industry estimates, and our own proprietary adjustments are used for the estimate of ultimate losses for each catastrophe event. Incurred losses from catastrophe events for both Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global can be designated catastrophes by PCS, or deemed as a catastrophe by the international insurance industry or, for Cincinnati Re, as reported by ceding companies. IBNR reserves are calculated as the difference between the estimate of the ultimate loss and loss expenses and the sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves.
•For asbestos and environmental claims, we calculate IBNR reserves by deriving an actuarially-based estimate of total unpaid loss and loss expenses. We then reduce the estimate by total case reserves. We discuss the reserve analysis that applies to asbestos and environmental reserves in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Asbestos and Environmental Loss and Loss Expense Reserves.
•For loss expenses that pertain primarily to salaries and other costs related to our claims department associates, also referred to as adjusting and other expense or AOE, we calculate reserves based on an analysis of the relationship between paid losses and paid AOE. Reserves for AOE are allocated to company, line of business and accident year based on a claim count algorithm. Claim counts reported and used in the reserving process are primarily measured by insurance coverages that are triggered when a loss occurs and a reserve is established. Coverages are defined as unique combinations of certain attributes such as line of business and cause of loss. Claims that are opened and closed without payment are included in the reported claim counts. Claim counts are presented on a direct basis only and do not reflect any assumed or ceded reinsurance.
•For all other claims and events, including reinsurance assumed or ceded, IBNR reserves are calculated as the difference between an actuarial estimate of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred reduced by the sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves estimated for individual claims. Reserve amounts for those other claims and events are significant, and represent the majority of amounts shown as IBNR reserves and loss expense reserves in the table included in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. We discuss below the development of actuarially based estimates of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred.

Our actuarial staff applies significant judgment in selecting models and estimating model parameters when preparing reserve analyses. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are inherently uncertain as to timing and amount. Uncertainties relating to model appropriateness, parameter estimates and actual loss and loss expense amounts are referred to as model, parameter and process uncertainty, respectively. Our management and actuarial staff address these uncertainties in the reserving process in a variety of ways.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 54

Our actuarial staff bases its IBNR reserve estimates for these losses primarily on the indications of methods and models that analyze accident year data. Accident year is the year in which an insured claim, loss or loss expense occurred. The specific methods and models that our actuaries have used for the past several years are:
•paid and reported loss development methods
•paid and reported loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods
•individual and multiple probabilistic trend family models

Our actuarial staff uses diagnostics to evaluate the appropriateness of the models and methods listed above. The appropriateness of these models and methods for estimating IBNR reserves tends to depend on the tail for a line of business. Tail refers to the time interval between a typical claim’s occurrence and its settlement. The loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods, particularly the reported loss variations, tend to produce more appropriate IBNR reserve estimates for our short-tail lines such as homeowner and commercial property. For our mid-tail and long-tail lines, all models and methods provide useful insights.

Our actuarial staff also devotes significant time and effort to the estimation of model and method parameters. The loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods require the estimation of numerous loss development factors. The Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods also involve the estimation of numerous expected loss ratios by accident year. Models from the probabilistic trend family require the estimation of development trends, calendar year inflation trends and exposure levels. Consequently, our actuarial staff monitors a number of trends and measures to gain key business insights necessary for exercising appropriate judgment when estimating the parameters mentioned, such as:
•company and industry pricing
•company and industry exposure
•company and industry loss frequency and severity
•past large loss events
•company and industry premium
•company in-force policy count

These trends and measures also support the estimation of expected accident year loss ratios needed for applying the Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods and for assessing the reasonability of all IBNR reserve estimates computed. Our actuarial staff reviews these trends and measures quarterly, updating parameters derived from them as necessary.

Quarterly, our actuarial staff summarizes their reserve analysis by preparing an actuarial best estimate and a range of reasonable IBNR reserves intended to reflect the uncertainty of the estimate. An inter-departmental committee that includes our actuarial management team reviews the results of each quarterly reserve analysis. The committee establishes management’s best estimate of IBNR reserves, which is the amount that is included in each period’s financial statements. In addition to the information provided by actuarial staff, the committee also considers factors such as:
•large loss activity and trends in large losses
•new business activity
•judicial decisions
•general economic trends such as inflation
•trends in litigiousness and legal expenses
•product and underwriting changes
•changes in claims practices

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 55

The determination of management’s best estimate, like the preparation of the reserve analysis that supports it, involves considerable judgment. Changes in reserving data or the trends and factors that influence reserving data may signal fundamental shifts or may simply reflect single-period anomalies. Even if a change reflects a fundamental shift, the full extent of the change may not become evident until years later. Moreover, since our methods and models do not explicitly relate many of the factors we consider directly to reserve levels, we typically cannot quantify the precise impact of such factors on the adequacy of reserves prospectively or retrospectively.

Due to the uncertainties described above, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings.

Key Assumptions – Loss Reserving
Our actuarial staff makes a number of key assumptions when using their methods and models to derive IBNR reserve estimates. Appropriate reliance on these key assumptions essentially entails determinations of the likelihood that statistically significant patterns in historical data may extend into the future. The four most significant of the key assumptions used by our actuarial staff and approved by management are:
•Emergence of loss and defense and cost containment expenses, also referred to as DCCE, on an accident year basis. Historical paid loss, reported loss and paid DCCE data for the business lines we analyze contain patterns that reflect how unpaid losses, unreported losses and unpaid DCCE as of a financial statement date will emerge in the future. Unless our actuarial staff or management identifies reasons or factors that invalidate the extension of historical patterns into the future, these patterns can be used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Our actuaries significantly rely on this assumption in the application of all methods and models mentioned above.
•Calendar year inflation. For long-tail and mid-tail business lines, calendar year inflation trends for future paid losses and paid DCCE do not vary significantly from a stable, long-term average. Our actuaries base reserve estimates derived from probabilistic trend family models on this assumption.
•Exposure levels. Historical earned premiums, when adjusted to reflect common levels of product pricing and loss cost inflation, can serve as a proxy for historical exposures. Our actuaries require this assumption to estimate expected loss ratios and expected DCCE ratios used by the Bornhuetter-Ferguson reserving methods. They may also use this assumption to establish exposure levels for recent accident years, characterized by “green” or immature data, when working with probabilistic trend family models.
•Claims having atypical emergence patterns. Characteristics of certain subsets of claims, such as high frequency, high severity, or mass tort claims, have the potential to distort patterns contained in historical paid loss, reported loss and paid DCCE data. When testing indicates this to be the case for a particular subset of claims, our actuaries segregate these claims from the data and analyze them separately. Subsets of claims that could fall into this category include hurricane claims or claims for other weather events where total losses we incurred were very large, individual large claims and asbestos and environmental claims.

These key assumptions have not changed since 2005, when our actuarial staff began using probabilistic trend family models to estimate IBNR reserves.

Paid losses, reported losses and paid DCCE are subject to random as well as systematic influences. As a result, actual paid losses, reported losses and paid DCCE are virtually certain to differ from projections. Such differences are consistent with what specific models for our business lines predict and with the related patterns in the historical data used to develop these models. As a result, management does not closely monitor statistically insignificant differences between actual and projected data.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 56

Reserve Estimate Variability
Management believes that the standard error of a reserve estimate, a measure of the estimate’s variability, provides the most appropriate measure of the estimate’s sensitivity. The reserves we establish depend on the models we use and the related parameters we estimate in the course of conducting reserve analyses. However, the actual amount required to settle all outstanding insured claims, including IBNR claims, as of a financial statement date depends on stochastic, or random, elements as well as the systematic elements captured by our models and estimated model parameters. For the lines of business we write, process uncertainty – the inherent variability of loss and loss expense payments – typically contributes more to the imprecision of a reserve estimate than parameter uncertainty.

Consequently, a sensitivity measure that ignores process uncertainty would provide an incomplete picture of the reserve estimate’s sensitivity. Since a reserve estimate’s standard error accounts for both process and parameter uncertainty, it reflects the estimate’s full sensitivity to a range of reasonably likely scenarios.

The table below provides standard errors and reserve ranges by major property casualty lines of business and in total for net loss and loss expense reserves as well as the potential effects on our net income, assuming a 21% federal tax rate. Standard errors and reserve ranges for assorted groupings of these lines of business cannot be computed by simply adding the standard errors and reserve ranges of the component lines of business, since such an approach would ignore the effects of product diversification. See Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Range of Reasonable Reserves, for more details on our total reserve range. While the table reflects our assessment of the most likely range within which each line’s actual unpaid loss and loss expenses may fall, one or more lines’ actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges.

--------------------- ------------------------------------------- ----- --------- --- ---------- ----- -------------- ---------------- ----- -- --- - ---
(Dollars in millions) Net loss and loss expense range of reserves
 Carried reserves Low point High point Standard error Net incomeeffect

At December 31, 2022
Total $ 7,931 $ 7,393 $ 8,099 $ 353 $ 279

Commercial casualty $ 2,779 $ 2,424 $ 2,964 $ 270 $ 213
Commercial property 581 441 682 121 96
Commercial auto 834 791 877 43 34
Workers' compensation 983 870 1,037 83 66
Personal auto 321 300 343 22 17
Homeowners 353 330 375 23 18
Excess and surplus 731 679 783 55 43

 .

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 57

Life Policy and Investment Contract Reserves
We establish the reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality and morbidity. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected withdrawal rates and expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current and future expected economic conditions.

We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no-lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no-lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments.

Asset Impairment
Our investment portfolio is our largest asset. We monitor the fixed-maturity portfolio and all other assets for signs of credit-related or other impairment. We monitor decreases in the fair value of invested assets and the need for an allowance for credit losses for our fixed-maturity portfolio; allowances for expected credit losses on receivable and recoverable assets considering past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts; an accumulation of company costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset; or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness or failure to pay interest; and changes in legal factors or in the business climate.

The application of our invested assets impairment policy resulted in write-downs of impaired securities intended to be sold that reduced our income before income taxes by $5 million in 2022, $1 million in 2021 and $78 million in 2020. Write-downs represent noncash charges to income and are reported as investment losses. The application of our non-invested assets impairment policy did not have a material effect on our financial condition in 2022 or 2021.

Our internal investment portfolio managers monitor their assigned portfolios. If a fixed-maturity security is valued below amortized cost, the portfolio managers undertake additional reviews. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing organization. Managers review quantitative measurements such as a declining trend in fair value and the extent of the fair value decline, as well as qualitative measures such as pending events, credit ratings and issuer liquidity. We are even more proactive when these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. We provide detailed information about fixed-maturity securities fair valued in a continuous loss position at year-end 2022 in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

An available for sale fixed maturity is impaired if the fair value of the security is below amortized cost. The impaired loss is charged to net income when we have the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost. For impaired securities we intend to hold, an allowance for credit related losses is recorded in investment losses when the company determines a credit loss has been incurred based on certain factors such as adverse conditions, credit rating downgrades or failure of the issuer to make scheduled principal or interest payments. A credit loss is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis by comparing the present value of expected cash flows with the amortized cost basis, limited to the difference between fair value and amortized cost. Noncredit losses are recognized in other comprehensive income as a change in unrealized gains and losses on investments. We provide information about valuations of our invested assets in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 58

Fair Value Measurements

Valuation of Financial Instruments
Fair value is defined as the exit price or the amount that would be (1) received to sell an asset or (2) paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants at the measurement date. When determining an exit price, we must, whenever possible, rely upon observable market data.

We have categorized our financial instruments, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three-level fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. While we consider pricing data from outside services, we ultimately determine whether the data or inputs used by these outside services are observable or unobservable.

Financial assets and liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as described in Item 8, Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Level 1 and Level 2 Valuation Techniques
Substantially all of the $21.973 billion of securities in our investment portfolio at year-end 2022, measured at fair value, are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Financial assets that fall within Level 1 and Level 2 are priced according to observable data from identical or similar securities that have traded in the marketplace. Also within Level 2 are securities that are valued by outside services or brokers where we have evaluated and verified the pricing methodology and determined that the inputs are observable.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Information about recent accounting pronouncements is provided in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 59

Financial Results
Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our five reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of assets.
•Commercial lines insurance
•Personal lines insurance
•Excess and surplus lines insurance
•Life insurance
•Investments

We report as Other the noninvestment operations of the parent company and its noninsurer subsidiary, CFC Investment Company. In addition, Other includes the financial results of our reinsurance assumed operations, known as Cincinnati Re, and our London-based global specialty underwriter known as Cincinnati Global.

We measure profit or loss for our commercial lines, personal lines, excess and surplus lines and life insurance segments based upon underwriting results (profit or loss), which represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses, or contract holders’ benefits incurred, and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. We also evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations. That is the total of our standard market segments (commercial lines and personal lines), our excess and surplus lines insurance segment, Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global. For analysis of our consolidated property casualty insurance results, it is important to include the earned premiums, loss and loss expenses and also underwriting expenses reported as Other. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not substitutes for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.

For our consolidated property casualty insurance operations as well as the insurance segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that we use to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP-based industry data generally is not as readily available.

Investments held by the parent company and the investment portfolios for the insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from our underwriting business. Net investment income and net investment gains and losses for our investment portfolios are discussed in the Investments Results.

The calculations of segment data are described in more detail in Item 8, Note 18, of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections provide analysis and discussion of results of operations for each of the five segments.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 60

Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results
Earned and net written premiums for our consolidated property casualty operations grew in 2022, reflecting average renewal price increases, a higher level of insured exposures and strategic initiatives for targeted growth. A key measure of property casualty profitability is underwriting profit or loss. Profit decreased in 2022, reflecting increased uncertainty of estimated ultimate losses, due in part to elevated paid losses reflecting economic or other forms of inflation. Our 2022 underwriting profit of $140 million was $591 million less than in 2021, including a $135 million unfavorable effect from a higher amount of catastrophe losses, mostly caused by severe weather. Prior accident year loss experience before catastrophes during 2022 was less favorable than in 2021, and represented $276 million of the 2022 underwriting profit decrease. Elevated inflation effects offset other factors that helped improve underwriting profitability, such as higher pricing and our ongoing initiatives to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices. Underwriting profit trends are discussed further below.

The table below highlights property casualty results, with analysis and discussion in the sections that follow. That analysis and discussion includes sections by segment.

Overview – Three-Year Highlights

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- ----- ---
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Earned premiums $ 6,924 $ 6,184 $ 5,691 12 9
Fee revenues 10 10 9 0 11
Total revenues 6,934 6,194 5,700 12 9
Loss and loss expenses from:
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 4,171 3,462 3,243 20 7
Current accident year catastrophe losses 704 562 725 25 (22)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (87) (363) (98) 76 (270)
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (72) (65) (33) (11) (97)
Loss and loss expenses 4,716 3,596 3,837 31 (6)
Underwriting expenses 2,078 1,867 1,744 11 7
Underwriting profit $ 140 $ 731 $ 119 (81) 514

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 60.2 % 56.0 % 57.0 % 4.2 (1.0)
Current accident year catastrophe losses 10.2 9.1 12.7 1.1 (3.6)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.3) (5.9) (1.7) 4.6 (4.2)
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1.0) (1.1) (0.6) 0.1 (0.5)
Loss and loss expenses 68.1 58.1 67.4 10.0 (9.3)
Underwriting expenses 30.0 30.2 30.7 (0.2) (0.5)
Combined ratio 98.1 % 88.3 % 98.1 % 9.8 (9.8)

Combined ratio: 98.1 % 88.3 % 98.1 % 9.8 (9.8)
Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 7.9 2.1 10.4 5.8 (8.3)
Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 90.2 % 86.2 % 87.7 % 4.0 (1.5)

Performance highlights for consolidated property casualty operations include:
•Premiums – Agency renewal written premiums rose $574 million or 11% in 2022 and continued to contribute to growth in earned premiums and net written premiums that rose in each of our property casualty insurance segments. The renewal premium increase was largely due to average renewal price increases and a higher level of insured exposures. Price increases with enhanced precision continue to benefit operating results.
New business written premiums produced through agencies increased $135 million in 2022, compared with 2021. Agents appointed during 2022 or 2021 produced a 2022 increase in standard lines new business of $45 million.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 61

Growth initiatives also favorably affect growth in subsequent years, particularly as newer agency relationships mature over time.
Expansion of Cincinnati Re produced $585 million of 2022 net written premiums and contributed $124 million of the growth in other written premiums, compared with 2021. Cincinnati Re assumes risks through reinsurance treaties and in some cases cedes part of the risk and related premiums to one or more unaffiliated reinsurance companies through transactions known as retrocessions. In 2022, earned premiums for Cincinnati Re totaled $520 million.
Cincinnati Global also contributed to the increase in other written premiums. Net written premiums were $230 million in 2022, and contributed $43 million of the growth in other written premiums, compared with 2021. In 2022, earned premiums for Cincinnati Global totaled $206 million.
Other written premiums also include premiums ceded to reinsurers as part of our ceded reinsurance program. An increase in ceded premiums, other than Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global premiums, reduced net written premium growth by $51 million in 2022, including $13 million for reinstatement premiums for our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty.
The table below analyzes premium revenue components and trends.

------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- -------- -------- ----- ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Agency renewal written premiums $ 5,665 $ 5,091 $ 4,740 11 7
Agency new business written premiums 1,032 897 799 15 12
Other written premiums 610 491 325 24 51
Net written premiums 7,307 6,479 5,864 13 10
Unearned premium change (383) (295) (173) (30) (71)
Earned premiums $ 6,924 $ 6,184 $ 5,691 12 9

•Combined ratio – The combined ratio increased by 9.8 percentage points in 2022, compared with 2021, including a 1.2 percentage-point increase in the ratio for catastrophe losses. The 2022 ratio for current accident year losses and loss expenses before catastrophes increased by 4.2 percentage points, reflecting inflation effects discussed below. The remainder of the 2022 combined ratio increase included 4.6 percentage points less benefit in the ratio for prior accident year losses and loss expenses before catastrophes. We further discuss ratios related to reserve development in the sections that follow the Catastrophe Losses Incurred table below.
The combined ratio increase and related decrease in property casualty underwriting income in 2022 included higher insured loss experience before catastrophe effects driven by various forms of inflation. Effects of the pandemic also contributed to increased uncertainty regarding ultimate losses. We believe the past two years distorted paid loss cost trends for reasons such as slowed activity for many businesses, reduced driving and closed courts that delayed progress on some litigated insurance claims. Until longer-term paid loss cost trends become more clear, we intend to remain prudent in reserving for estimated ultimate losses. As a result, incurred losses in 2022 for several lines of business were higher than in prior years and are further discussed in results for our commercial lines and personal lines insurance segments.
Elevated inflation was a driver of higher losses and loss expenses as costs have increased significantly to repair damaged autos or other property that we insure. In addition to inflation affecting historic loss patterns, we believe reduced driving during the pandemic resulted in a relatively low level of loss activity in 2021, distorting paid loss cost trends for autos. We also experienced higher losses for liability coverages for some of our lines of business, particularly for commercial umbrella insurance. We believe future property casualty underwriting results will continue to benefit from price increases and our ongoing initiatives to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices.
Our statutory combined ratio was 97.7% in 2022 compared with 87.9% in 2021 and 96.7% in 2020. The estimated statutory combined ratio for the property casualty industry, with the industry’s ratio excluding its mortgage and financial guaranty lines of business and based on industry data reported through the first nine months of 2022, was 102.8% in 2022, 99.5% in 2021 and 98.8% in 2020. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our statutory combined ratio was 8.9 percentage points in 2022, 7.6 percentage points in 2021 and 11.2 percentage points in 2020, compared with industry estimates of 7.0, 7.7 and 8.0 percentage points, respectively, with 2022 representing industry data reported through the first nine months of 2022. Components of the combined ratio are discussed below.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 62

Catastrophe loss trends are an important factor in assessing trends for overall underwriting results. Our 10-year historical annual average contribution of catastrophe losses to the combined ratio was 7.4 percentage points at December 31, 2022. Our five-year average was 8.6 percentage points.

Effective June 1, 2022, we restructured our reinsurance program for Cincinnati Re only, providing retrocession coverages with various triggers and unique features. That program included property catastrophe excess of loss coverage with a total available aggregate limit of $30 million in excess of $100 million per loss. Losses estimated for Hurricane Ian as of December 31, 2022, resulted in an estimated recovery of $19 million. Ultimate loss experience could be lower or higher than that estimate. Reserve estimates are inherently uncertain and our proprietary adjustments and ultimate loss estimates will develop as more information is reported by affected ceding companies.

Effective in May 2022, to provide more capacity to retain risks, we added a quota share reinsurance arrangement for our personal lines risks in California that we insure through excess and surplus lines policies. Approximately 27% of the risk is reinsured through ceded premiums.

The following table shows catastrophe losses incurred for the past two calendar years, net of reinsurance, as well as the effect of loss development on prior period catastrophe reserves. We individually list declared catastrophe events for which our incurred losses reached or exceeded $25 million. Included in all other 2022 catastrophes is an estimate of $8 million for catastrophe losses and loss expenses incurred, net of reinsurance, for direct exposure within our Other insurance operation to businesses or individuals in Russia or Ukraine.

Catastrophe Losses Incurred

------------------------------------------ ------------------------------ ------------------------------- ---------------- ---- -------------- ------------------------ --- ----- - ---- -- --- ---- --- --- -- - --- --
(Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Excess and surplus lines
 Commercial lines Personal lines
Dates Events Regions Other Total
 2022

Jun. 11-17 Flood, Hail, Wind Midwest, Northeast, South 18 18 — — 36
Sep. 27 - Oct. 1 Flood, Hail, Wind South (Ian) 28 42 — 133 203
Dec. 21-31 Flood, Freeze, Ice, Snow, Wind Midwest, Northeast, South, West 110 46 2 3 161

All other 2022 catastrophes 151 130 3 20 304
Development on 2021 and prior catastrophes (23) (44) (1) (4) (72)
Calendar year incurred total $ 284 $ 192 $ 4 $ 152 $ 632

 2021
Feb. 12-15 Flood, Freeze, Ice, Snow, Wind South, West $ 9 $ 5 $ — $ 34 $ 48
Feb. 16-20 Flood, Freeze, Ice, Snow, Wind Midwest, Northeast, South 18 27 1 8 54
Mar. 24-26 Flood, Hail, Wind Midwest, Northeast, South 12 18 — — 30

Jun. 17-20 Flood, Hail, Wind Midwest 10 16 — — 26

Aug. 29 - Sep. 2 Flood, Hail, Wind Northeast, South (Ida) 14 36 — 118 168
Dec. 10-12 Flood, Hail, Wind Midwest, Northeast, South 40 22 — — 62

All other 2021 catastrophes 65 94 2 13 174
Development on 2020 and prior catastrophes (44) (7) — (14) (65)
Calendar year incurred total $ 124 $ 211 $ 3 $ 159 $ 497

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 63

Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses
Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. For all property casualty lines of business in aggregate, net loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2022, were $1.029 billion higher than at year-end 2021, including $765 million for incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves. The $1.029 billion reserve increase raised year-end 2021 net loss and loss expense reserves by 15%, compared with a 12% increase in 2022 earned premiums.

Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the consolidated property casualty insurance results three-year highlights table are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since less than half of our consolidated property casualty current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid amounts, the majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re-estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 65.1% accident year 2021 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2021, developed favorably by 1.6 percentage points to 63.5% due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2022. Accident years 2021 and 2020 have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions)
Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums:
Accident year: 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
as of December 31, 2022 $ 4,875 $ 3,928 $ 3,562 70.4 % 63.5 % 62.6 %
as of December 31, 2021 4,024 3,686 65.1 64.8
as of December 31, 2020 3,968 69.7

Catastrophe loss trends, discussed above, accounted for some of the movement in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for 2022, compared with 2021. Catastrophe losses added 10.2 percentage points in 2022, 9.1 points in 2021 and 12.7 points in 2020 to the respective consolidated property casualty current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above.

The 60.2% ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2022 increased 4.2 percentage points compared with the 56.0% accident year 2021 ratio measured as of December 31, 2021. The increase included a 0.7 percentage-point increase in the ratio for current accident year losses of $1 million or more per claim, shown in the table below.

Reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2022, and was primarily due to less-than-anticipated loss emergence on known claims. We recognized $159 million of favorable development in 2022, compared with $428 million in 2021 and $131 million in 2020. Of the $269 million decrease in 2022, compared with 2021, $264 million was attributable to our commercial casualty, commercial property and commercial auto lines of business. Approximately 74% of our net favorable reserve development on prior accident years recognized during 2022 occurred in our workers' compensation and homeowner lines of business. In 2021, our commercial casualty, commercial property and workers' compensation lines of business were responsible for approximately 66% of the favorable reserve development. As discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, commercial casualty and workers' compensation are considered long-tail lines with the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. Favorable development recognized during 2020 was primarily from our commercial casualty and workers’ compensation lines of business. Development by accident year is further discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 64

Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Losses by Size

---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- -- ----- ---
(Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $ 143 $ 112 $ 50 28 124
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 325 257 202 26 27
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 75 95 42 (21) 126
Total large losses incurred 543 464 294 17 58
Losses incurred but not reported 377 (19) 310 nm nm
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 2,502 2,062 1,909 21 8
Catastrophe losses 612 472 670 30 (30)
Total losses incurred $ 4,034 $ 2,979 $ 3,183 35 (6)

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 2.1 % 1.8 % 0.9 % 0.3 0.9
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 4.6 4.2 3.6 0.4 0.6
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 1.1 1.5 0.7 (0.4) 0.8
Total large loss ratio 7.8 7.5 5.2 0.3 2.3
Losses incurred but not reported 5.5 (0.3) 5.5 5.8 (5.8)
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 36.2 33.4 33.4 2.8 0.0
Catastrophe losses 8.8 7.6 11.8 1.2 (4.2)
Total loss ratio 58.3 % 48.2 % 55.9 % 10.1 (7.7)

In 2022, total large losses incurred increased by $79 million, or 17%, net of reinsurance, primarily due to an increase for our personal lines insurance segment. The corresponding 2022 ratio increased 0.3 percentage points, compared with 2021. The large loss data included in the table above does not include Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global. Our analysis of large losses incurred indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 65

Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Underwriting Expenses

--------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ---- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- ----- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Commission expenses $ 1,319 $ 1,168 $ 1,042 13 12
Other underwriting expenses 753 694 692 9 0
Policyholder dividends 6 5 10 20 (50)
Total underwriting expenses $ 2,078 $ 1,867 $ 1,744 11 7

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Commission expenses 19.1 % 18.9 % 18.3 % 0.2 0.6
Other underwriting expenses 10.8 11.2 12.2 (0.4) (1.0)
Policyholder dividends 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.0 (0.1)
Total underwriting expense ratio 30.0 % 30.2 % 30.7 % (0.2) (0.5)

Consolidated property casualty commission expenses rose $151 million, or 13%, in 2022, with profit-sharing commissions for agencies decreasing by $5 million. The 2022 ratio of commission expenses as a percent of earned premiums increased by 0.2 percentage points, compared with 2021. The 2022 ratio for other underwriting expenses decreased by 0.4 percentage points, compared with 2021. Earned premiums rose at a faster pace than other underwriting expenses during 2022, and we continued to carefully manage expenses while also making strategic investments that include enhancement of underwriting expertise.

Commission expenses include our profit-sharing commissions, which are primarily based on one-year and three-year profitability of an agency’s business. The aggregate profit trend for agencies that earn these profit-based commissions can differ from the aggregate profit trend for all agencies reflected in our consolidated property casualty results.

Salaries, benefits and payroll taxes for our associates account for approximately half of our property casualty other underwriting expenses. Most of our associates either provide direct service to the property casualty portion of our agencies’ businesses or provide support to those associates.

Discussions below of our property casualty insurance segments provide additional details about our results.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 66

Commercial Lines Insurance Results

Overview – Three-Year Highlights

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- ------ ---
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Earned premiums $ 4,024 $ 3,674 $ 3,476 10 6
Fee revenues 4 4 3 0 33
Total revenues 4,028 3,678 3,479 10 6
Loss and loss expenses from:
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 2,530 2,125 2,055 19 3
Current accident year catastrophe losses 307 168 376 83 (55)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (53) (309) (81) 83 (281)
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (23) (44) (14) 48 (214)
Loss and loss expenses 2,761 1,940 2,336 42 (17)
Underwriting expenses 1,229 1,140 1,079 8 6
Underwriting profit $ 38 $ 598 $ 64 (94) 834
Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 62.9 % 57.8 % 59.2 % 5.1 (1.4)
Current accident year catastrophe losses 7.6 4.6 10.8 3.0 (6.2)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.3) (8.4) (2.3) 7.1 (6.1)
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.6) (1.2) (0.4) 0.6 (0.8)
Loss and loss expenses 68.6 52.8 67.3 15.8 (14.5)
Underwriting expenses 30.6 31.0 31.0 (0.4) 0.0
Combined ratio 99.2 % 83.8 % 98.3 % 15.4 (14.5)

Combined ratio: 99.2 % 83.8 % 98.3 % 15.4 (14.5)
Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 5.7 (5.0) 8.1 10.7 (13.1)
Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 93.5 % 88.8 % 90.2 % 4.7 (1.4)

Performance highlights for the commercial lines insurance segment include:
•Premiums – Earned premiums and net written premiums rose in 2022, including a $338 million, or 10%, increase in renewal written premiums that continued to include higher average pricing and a higher level of insured exposures. New business written premiums in 2022 increased $29 million, or 5%, compared with 2021.
•Combined ratio – The 2022 combined ratio increased by 15.4 percentage points compared with 2021, including a 3.6 percentage-point increase in the ratio component for catastrophe losses. Development on prior accident years loss and loss expense reserves before catastrophes during 2022 was 7.1 percentage points less favorable than in 2021. The 2022 combined ratio also increased 5.1 points from current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses, including 3.7 points from commercial umbrella coverages discussed below.
When estimating the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses, we consider many factors, including trends for inflation, historical paid and reported losses, large loss activity and other data or information for the industry or our company. Elevated inflation was a driver of higher losses and loss expenses as costs have increased significantly to repair damaged business property or autos that we insure. In addition to inflation causing deviations from historical loss patterns, we believe reduced driving during the pandemic resulted in a relatively low level of loss activity in 2021 and 2020, distorting paid loss cost trends for autos. Due to increased uncertainty regarding ultimate losses, we intend to remain prudent in reserving for estimated ultimate losses until longer-term loss cost trends become more clear.
Commercial umbrella coverages, part of our commercial casualty line of business that help protect businesses against liability from occurrences such as accidents or injuries, contributed significantly to the increase in 2022 ratios for losses and expenses. Incurred losses and loss expenses for commercial umbrella coverages of

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 67

$416 million in 2022 increased $249 million, or 149%, compared with 2021, due in part to net paid losses of $223 million increasing $101 million, or 83%, while earned premiums rose 10%. Severe losses from commercial auto accidents were the primary source of our commercial umbrella claims during 2022 and also in recent years.
Commercial umbrella paid loss experience is inherently variable. For example, net paid losses rose 80% in 2019 and 18% in 2021 while decreasing by 35% in both 2018 and 2020. Commercial umbrella net earned premiums were $499 million for 2022 and represented approximately 35% of our commercial casualty premiums for both 2022 and 2021. The profile of coverage limits for policies in force at the end of 2022 included 43% with $1 million of coverage per policy, 91% with $5 million or less and 99% with $10 million or less of coverage. Our commercial umbrella insurance coverages have a strong record of profitability for us, including an estimated combined ratio averaging below 85% for the five years ending in 2022.
Pricing precision and other initiatives to improve commercial lines underwriting profitability complement our business practices that continue to leverage the local presence of our field associates. Field marketing representatives meet with local agencies to assess each risk, determine limits of insurance and establish appropriate terms and conditions. They underwrite new business, with collaboration and expertise from headquarters associates as needed, while field loss control, machinery and equipment and claims representatives conduct on-site inspections. Field claims representatives also assist underwriters by preparing full reports on their first-hand observations of risk quality.
Our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 98.5% in 2022, compared with 83.2% in 2021 and 97.5% in 2020. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 7.0 percentage points in 2022, 3.4 percentage points in 2021 and 10.4 percentage points in 2020.

Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums

------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- -------- -------- ----- ----- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Agency renewal written premiums $ 3,672 $ 3,334 $ 3,122 10 7
Agency new business written premiums 600 571 515 5 11
Other written premiums (113) (94) (103) (20) 9
Net written premiums 4,159 3,811 3,534 9 8
Unearned premium change (135) (137) (58) 1 (136)
Earned premiums $ 4,024 $ 3,674 $ 3,476 10 6

We continue to refine our use of predictive analytics tools to improve pricing precision as we further segment commercial lines policies, emphasizing identification and retention of policies we believe have relatively stronger price adequacy. These tools better align individual insurance policy pricing to risk attributes, providing our underwriters with enhanced abilities to target profitability and to discuss pricing impacts with our agencies. We also continue to leverage our local relationships with agents through the efforts of our teams that work closely with them. We believe our field focus is unique and has several advantages, including providing us with quality intelligence on local market conditions. We seek to maintain appropriate pricing discipline for both new and renewal business as management continues to emphasize the importance of our agencies and underwriters assessing account quality to make careful decisions on a case-by-case basis whether to write as new business or renew a policy. Premium rate credits may be used to retain renewals of quality business and to earn new business, but we do so selectively in order to avoid commercial accounts that we believe have insufficient profit margins.

Our 10% increase in 2022 agency renewal written premiums included higher average pricing. We measure average changes in commercial lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies. In 2022, our standard commercial lines policies averaged an estimated pricing change at a percentage in the mid-single-digit range, higher than 2021. Our average commercial lines pricing change includes the flat pricing effect of certain coverages within package policies written for a three-year term that were in force but did not expire during the period being measured. Therefore, the average commercial lines pricing change we report reflects a blend of policies that did not expire and other policies that did expire during the measurement period.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 68

For only those commercial lines policies that did expire and were then renewed during 2022, we estimate that the average price increase was at a percentage near the high end of the mid-single-digit range. During 2022, we continued to further segment our commercial lines policies, emphasizing identification and retention of policies we believed had relatively stronger price adequacy. Conversely, we continued to seek more aggressive renewal terms and conditions on policies we believed had relatively weaker pricing, in turn retaining fewer of those policies.

Our 2022 increase of 10% for the commercial lines segment's agency renewal written premiums also included a higher level of insured exposures. Part of the insured exposure increase reflects our response to inflation effects that increase the cost of building materials to repair damaged commercial structures. We use building valuation software to automate much of that underwriting process and may also manually adjust premiums to reflect property costs. For our commercial property line of business, premium adjustments for such costs during 2022 were about double the level they were for the same period a year ago.

Changes in the economy can affect insured exposures that directly relate to premium amounts charged for some policies. For commercial accounts, we usually calculate initial estimates for general liability premiums based on estimated sales or payroll volume, while we calculate workers’ compensation premiums based on estimated payroll volume. A change in sales or payroll volume generally indicates a change in demand for a business’s goods or services, as well as a change in its exposure to risk. Policyholders who experience sales or payroll volume changes due to economic factors may also have other exposures requiring insurance, such as commercial auto or commercial property. Premium levels for these other types of coverages generally are not linked directly to sales or payroll volumes.

Premiums resulting from audits of actual sales or payrolls that confirmed or adjusted initial premium estimates are part of net written premiums and earned premiums. The contribution to our commercial lines earned premiums was $127 million, $47 million and $41 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The contribution on a net written premium basis was $101 million, $44 million and $53 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These net written premium amounts are included with agency renewal written premiums in the Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums table above.

In 2022, our commercial lines new business premiums written by our agencies increased $29 million, or 5%, compared with 2021. New business premium volume in recent years has been significantly influenced by new agency appointments. Agencies appointed since the beginning of 2021 produced commercial lines new business written premiums of $52 million, in aggregate, during 2022, up $30 million from what they produced during 2021. All other agencies contributed the remaining $548 million, down $1 million from the $549 million they produced in 2021.

For new business, our field associates are frequently in our agents’ offices to: help judge the quality of each account; emphasize the Cincinnati value proposition; call on sales prospects with those agents; and provide appropriate quotes after carefully evaluating risk exposures. Some of our new business comes from accounts that are not new to the agent. We believe these seasoned accounts tend to be priced more accurately than business that is new to us and the agency. As we appoint new agencies who choose to move accounts to us, we report these accounts as new business to us.

Other written premiums primarily consist of premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and lower our net written premiums. An increase in ceded premiums reduced net written premium growth by $26 million in 2022.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 69

Commercial Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses
Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the commercial lines insurance segment three-year highlights table are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since less than half of our commercial lines insurance segment current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid amounts, the majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re-estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about development on the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 62.4% accident year 2021 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2021, developed favorably by 1.6 percentage points to 60.8% due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updates to reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2022. Accident years 2021 and 2020 for the commercial lines insurance segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time of the ratios in the table.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions)
Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums:
Accident year: 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
as of December 31, 2022 $ 2,837 $ 2,234 $ 2,131 70.5 % 60.8 % 61.3 %
as of December 31, 2021 2,293 2,216 62.4 63.8
as of December 31, 2020 2,431 70.0

Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results, explain some of the movement in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for accident year 2022, compared with 2021. Catastrophe losses added 7.6 percentage points in 2022, 4.6 points in 2021 and 10.8 points in 2020 to the respective commercial lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above.

The 62.9% ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2022 increased 5.1 percentage points compared with the 57.8% accident year 2021 ratio measured as of December 31, 2021. The increase included an increase in large losses incurred, described below, and the corresponding ratios for new losses above $1 million, with a 0.6 percentage-point increase in the 2022 ratio. Other contributions included inflation effects that offset the favorable impact from various initiatives, such as those to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices.

Commercial lines reserve development on prior accident years of $76 million in 2022 continued to net to a favorable amount and provided a smaller benefit than the $353 million recognized in 2021. The $277 million net decrease in 2022, compared with 2021, included $144 million, $66 million and $54 million from our commercial casualty, commercial auto and commercial property lines of business, respectively. Most of our commercial lines net favorable reserve development on prior accident years recognized during 2022 occurred in our workers’ compensation and commercial property lines of business. Unfavorable development recognized during 2022 for our commercial casualty lines of business totaled $25 million, including $41 million for commercial umbrella coverages. The $41 million of net unfavorable development for commercial umbrella coverages included an unfavorable $107 million for accident years 2018 through 2021 and a net favorable $66 million for all accident years prior to 2018. Favorable development recognized during 2021 was mostly from our commercial casualty, commercial property and workers’ compensation lines of business and during 2020 it was mostly from our commercial casualty and workers' compensation lines of business. As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, stable historical paid loss patterns are a key assumption used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Development by accident year and other trends for commercial lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 70

Commercial Lines Insurance Losses by Size

---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- -- ------ ----
(Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $ 95 $ 97 $ 50 (2) 94
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 237 185 135 28 37
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 63 96 36 (34) 167
Total large losses incurred 395 378 221 4 71
Losses incurred but not reported 304 (83) 240 nm nm
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 1,364 1,131 1,073 21 5
Catastrophe losses 275 116 350 137 (67)
Total losses incurred $ 2,338 $ 1,542 $ 1,884 52 (18)

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 2.4 % 2.6 % 1.4 % (0.2) 1.2
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 5.8 5.0 4.0 0.8 1.0
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 1.6 2.7 1.0 (1.1) 1.7
Total large loss ratio 9.8 10.3 6.4 (0.5) 3.9
Losses incurred but not reported 7.6 (2.3) 6.9 9.9 (9.2)
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 33.9 30.8 30.8 3.1 0.0
Catastrophe losses 6.8 3.2 10.1 3.6 (6.9)
Total loss ratio 58.1 % 42.0 % 54.2 % 16.1 (12.2)

In 2022, total large losses incurred increased by $17 million, or 4%, net of reinsurance. The corresponding 2022 ratio decreased 0.5 percentage points, compared with 2021, as premium growth outpaced growth in total large losses. The 2022 increase on a dollar basis was due to higher amounts for our commercial casualty and commercial auto lines of business, by $28 million and $25 million, respectively. The $28 million 2022 increase for commercial casualty included $21 million for commercial umbrella coverages, while the net amount for other coverages increased by $7 million. In 2021, total large losses incurred and the corresponding ratio were higher than in 2020, largely due to higher amounts of large losses for our commercial casualty and commercial property lines of business. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs.

Commercial Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses

--------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ---- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- ----- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Commission expenses $ 741 $ 684 $ 625 8 9
Other underwriting expenses 482 451 444 7 2
Policyholder dividends 6 5 10 20 (50)
Total underwriting expenses $ 1,229 $ 1,140 $ 1,079 8 6
Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Commission expenses 18.4 % 18.6 % 18.0 % (0.2) 0.6
Other underwriting expenses 12.0 12.2 12.7 (0.2) (0.5)
Policyholder dividends 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.0 (0.1)
Total underwriting expense ratio 30.6 % 31.0 % 31.0 % (0.4) 0.0

Commercial lines commission expenses as a percent of earned premiums decreased in 2022, compared with 2021, primarily due to a decrease in the ratio for profit-sharing commissions for agencies. The ratio for 2021 increased compared with 2020, reflecting an increase in the ratio for profit-sharing commissions for agencies. In 2022, other underwriting expenses as a percent of earned premiums decreased, compared with 2021, reflecting ongoing

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 71

expense management efforts and premium growth outpacing growth in expenses. In 2021, other underwriting expenses as a percent of earned premiums decreased, compared with 2020, reflecting lower levels of uncollectible premiums, ongoing expense management efforts and higher earned premiums.

Commercial Lines Insurance Outlook
Renewal and new business pricing for commercial risks continues to experience significant competitive pressure, reinforcing the need for enhanced pricing analytics and careful risk selection. Despite challenging market conditions from strong competition, we believe we can manage our business and execute strategic initiatives to offset market pressures and profitably grow our commercial lines insurance segment.

We intend to grow our commercial lines segment through additional agency appointments, expansion of our local field presence, enhanced expertise and a robust product catalog that meets the needs of an even larger percentage of our agencies' total commercial portfolio. Our goal is to provide flexibility in our process so that we can deliver an industry-leading agency experience to all of our agents as we work to be the first and last solution when they are considering business placement.

We intend to keep marketing our products to a broad range of business classes with a total account approach, while also continuing improvement of our pricing precision and further segmentation among commercial lines policies. We intend to maintain our underwriting discipline and carefully manage our rate levels as well as our programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriate premiums. We will continue to evaluate each risk on a policy-by-policy basis, making decisions about rates, terms and conditions based on each account’s individual characteristics. We believe that our initiatives to improve pricing precision and lower loss costs will continue to benefit commercial lines profitability during 2023, and that recent-year premium growth initiatives will continue to grow commercial lines premiums at a healthy pace.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 72

Personal Lines Insurance Results

Overview – Three-Year Highlights

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- ----- ---
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Earned premiums $ 1,689 $ 1,542 $ 1,463 10 5
Fee revenues 4 4 4 0 0
Total revenues 1,693 1,546 1,467 10 5
Loss and loss expenses from:
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 991 824 762 20 8
Current accident year catastrophe losses 236 218 233 8 (6)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (17) (43) (10) 60 (330)
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (44) (7) (8) (529) 13
Loss and loss expenses 1,166 992 977 18 2
Underwriting expenses 509 457 443 11 3
Underwriting profit $ 18 $ 97 $ 47 (81) 106

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 58.7 % 53.4 % 52.1 % 5.3 1.3
Current accident year catastrophe losses 14.0 14.2 16.0 (0.2) (1.8)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.0) (2.8) (0.7) 1.8 (2.1)
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (2.6) (0.5) (0.6) (2.1) 0.1
Loss and loss expenses 69.1 64.3 66.8 4.8 (2.5)
Underwriting expenses 30.1 29.7 30.3 0.4 (0.6)
Combined ratio 99.2 % 94.0 % 97.1 % 5.2 (3.1)

Combined ratio: 99.2 % 94.0 % 97.1 % 5.2 (3.1)
Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 10.4 10.9 14.7 (0.5) (3.8)
Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 88.8 % 83.1 % 82.4 % 5.7 0.7

Performance highlights for the personal lines insurance segment include:
•Premiums – Earned premiums and net written premiums continued to grow in 2022, largely due to increases in renewal written premiums that included higher average pricing and a higher level of insured exposures. Renewal written premiums rose $167 million, or 12%, in 2022, compared with 2021. Net written premiums from high net worth policies in 2022 totaled approximately $919 million, compared with $663 million in 2021, including $63 million and $32 million, respectively, from excess and surplus lines homeowner policies. Our high net worth policies represented 50.2% of our 2022 personal lines net written premiums. In 2023, we renamed our high net worth products and services, Cincinnati Private ClientSM, a naming convention commonly used to describe clients with complex needs.
•Combined ratio – The 2022 combined ratio increased by 5.2 percentage points, compared with 2021, including a 2.3 percentage-point decrease in the ratio for catastrophe losses. Development on prior accident years’ loss and loss expense reserves before catastrophes during 2022 was 1.8 percentage points less favorable than in 2021. The 2022 combined ratio also included an increase of 5.3 percentage points from current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses, with our personal auto and homeowner lines of business each representing approximately 2 points.
When estimating the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses, we consider many factors, including trends in inflation, historical paid and reported losses, large loss activity and other data or information for the industry or our company. Elevated inflation was a driver of higher losses and loss expenses as costs have increased significantly to repair damaged autos or homes that we insure. In addition to inflation causing deviations from historical loss patterns, we believe reduced driving during the pandemic resulted in a relatively low level of loss activity in 2021 and 2020, distorting paid loss cost trends for autos. Due to increased uncertainty regarding ultimate losses, we

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 73

intend to remain prudent in reserving for estimated ultimate losses until longer-term loss cost trends become more clear. For example, personal auto incurred loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses increased $109 million, or 30%, in 2022, compared with the same period of 2021, in part due to paid losses before catastrophes increasing $53 million, or 17%, while earned premiums rose 3%.
We have increased our pricing precision and implemented numerous rate increases in recent years to improve our personal lines insurance segment results. In addition, we have made greater use of higher minimum loss deductibles and enhanced our property inspection processes to verify condition and insurance to value. We have worked to improve our geographic diversification by expanding our personal lines operation to several states less prone to catastrophes.
Our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 97.7% in 2022, compared with 93.5% in 2021 and 96.4% in 2020. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 11.4 percentage points in 2022, 13.7 percentage points in 2021 and 15.4 percentage points in 2020.

Personal Lines Insurance Premiums

------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- -------- -------- ----- ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Agency renewal written premiums $ 1,601 $ 1,434 $ 1,364 12 5
Agency new business written premiums 296 202 174 47 16
Other written premiums (66) (42) (35) (57) (20)
Net written premiums 1,831 1,594 1,503 15 6
Unearned premium change (142) (52) (40) (173) (30)
Earned premiums $ 1,689 $ 1,542 $ 1,463 10 5

Personal lines insurance is a strategic component of our overall relationship with most of our agencies and is an important component of our agencies’ relationships with their clients. We believe agents recommend our personal insurance products to their clients who seek to balance quality and price and who are attracted by our superior claims service and the benefits of our package approach. We also believe our continuing efforts to improve pricing precision are helping us attract and retain more of our agencies’ preferred business, while also obtaining higher rates for more thinly priced business.

The 12% increase in agency renewal written premiums in 2022 included the effect of various rate changes. We estimate that premium rates for our personal auto line of business increased at average percentages in the low-single-digit range during 2022, with some individual policies experiencing lower or higher rate changes based on enhanced pricing precision enabled by predictive models that consider characteristics of specific risks. We expect full-year 2023 written premiums will include an average rate increase of approximately 10% for our personal auto line of business. For our homeowner line of business, we estimate that rate increases during 2022 averaged in the mid-single-digit range. Similar to our personal auto line of business, that average varied widely by state, and some individual policies experienced lower or higher rate changes based on pricing precision and current rate level indications that helped determine appropriate premium rates.

The 12% increase in agency renewal written premiums in 2022 also included a higher level of insured exposures and other factors such as changes in policy deductibles or mix of business. Part of the insured exposure increase reflects our response to inflation effects that increase the cost of building materials to repair damaged homes. In recent years, prior to 2022, our homeowner policies used inflation factors that adjusted premiums for such costs annually and averaged increases in the mid-single-digit percentage range. Beginning in 2022, the adjustment occurred quarterly and the inflation factors were in the high-single-digit percentage range for the last three quarters of the year.

Personal lines new business written premiums grew by $94 million, or 47%, during 2022, compared with 2021, including $77 million from high net worth policies. Approximately $21 million of the 2022 increase was from excess and surplus lines homeowner policies and $56 million was from other high net worth policies. We believe we maintained underwriting and pricing discipline and growth was also supported by expanded use of enhanced pricing precision tools. Some of what we report as new business came from accounts that were not new to our agents. We believe our agents’ seasoned accounts tend to be priced more accurately than business that may be less familiar to them.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 74

Other written premiums primarily consist of premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and lower our net written premiums. An increase in ceded premiums reduced net written premium growth by $23 million in 2022.

Personal Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses
Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the personal lines insurance segment three-year highlights table are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since approximately two-thirds of our personal lines current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represent net paid amounts, the remaining one-third represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re-estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 67.6% accident year 2021 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2021, developed favorably by 3.4 percentage points to 64.2% due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2022. Accident years 2021 and 2020 for the personal lines insurance segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ----- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions)
Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums:
Accident year: 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
as of December 31, 2022 $ 1,227 $ 990 $ 928 72.7 % 64.2 % 63.4 %
as of December 31, 2021 1,042 943 67.6 64.5
as of December 31, 2020 995 68.1

Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results, explain some of the movement in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for accident year 2022, compared with accident year 2021. Catastrophe losses added 14.0 percentage points in 2022, 14.2 points in 2021 and 16.0 points in 2020 to the respective personal lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. Personal lines catastrophe losses for 2022 resulted in a ratio higher than our 10.8% 10-year annual average for personal lines. Personal lines catastrophe losses are inherently volatile, as discussed above and in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results.

The 58.7% ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2022 increased 5.3 percentage points compared with the 53.4% accident year 2021 ratio measured as of December 31, 2021. The increase included an increase in large losses incurred, described below, and the corresponding ratios for new losses above $1 million, with a 2.0 percentage-point increase in the 2022 ratio. Other contributions included inflation effects that offset the favorable impact from various initiatives, such as those to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices.

Personal lines loss and loss expense reserve development on prior accident years recognized in 2022 was favorable by $61 million, in aggregate, compared with $50 million in 2021. The 2022 net favorable reserve development included $54 million for our homeowner line of business. The 2021 net favorable reserve development included $31 million for our personal auto line of business and $14 million for our homeowner line of business. As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, stable historical paid loss patterns are a key assumption used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Development by accident year and other trends for personal lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 75

Personal Lines Insurance Losses by Size

---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- --- ---------- - ---------- ----- -- ----- --
(Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $ 48 $ 15 $ — 220 nm
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 64 56 59 14 (5)
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 8 (4) 6 nm nm
Total large losses incurred 120 67 65 79 3
Losses incurred but not reported 5 11 39 (55) (72)
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 700 588 523 19 12
Catastrophe losses 186 198 216 (6) (8)
Total losses incurred $ 1,011 $ 864 $ 843 17 2

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 2.8 % 1.0 % 0.0 % 1.8 1.0
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 3.8 3.6 4.0 0.2 (0.4)
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 0.5 (0.2) 0.4 0.7 (0.6)
Total large loss ratio 7.1 4.4 4.4 2.7 0.0
Losses incurred but not reported 0.3 0.7 2.7 (0.4) (2.0)
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 41.5 38.1 35.8 3.4 2.3
Catastrophe losses 11.0 12.8 14.7 (1.8) (1.9)
Total loss ratio 59.9 % 56.0 % 57.6 % 3.9 (1.6)

In 2022, personal lines total large losses incurred increased by $53 million, or 79%, net of reinsurance. The corresponding 2022 ratio increased 2.7 percentage points, compared with 2021. The 2022 increase was primarily due to a higher amount for our homeowner line of business. In 2021, total large losses increased on a dollar basis, compared with 2020, primarily due to a higher amount for umbrella coverage in our other personal line of business that was partially offset by a lower amount for our homeowner line of business. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent inflationary trends in loss costs.

Personal Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses

--------------------------------------- ------------------------ --- --------- ---- --------- --- ---------- - ---------- --- ----- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Commission expenses $ 327 $ 292 $ 266 12 10
Other underwriting expenses 182 165 177 10 (7)
Total underwriting expenses $ 509 $ 457 $ 443 11 3
Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Commission expenses 19.4 % 19.0 % 18.2 % 0.4 0.8
Other underwriting expenses 10.7 10.7 12.1 0.0 (1.4)
Total underwriting expense ratio 30.1 % 29.7 % 30.3 % 0.4 (0.6)

Personal lines commission expense as a percent of earned premiums increased in 2022, compared with 2021, primarily due to an increase in commissions for agencies other than profit-sharing commissions. The ratio for 2021 increased compared with 2020, largely due to an increase in the ratio for profit-sharing commissions for agencies. In 2022, other underwriting expenses as a percent of earned premiums matched 2021, reflecting ongoing expense management efforts, as the pace of premium growth was in line with growth in other expenses. Other underwriting expenses as a percent of earned premiums in 2021 decreased, compared with 2020, primarily due to 2020 including a $16 million Stay-at-Home policyholder credit for personal auto policies.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 76

Personal Lines Insurance Outlook
Various publications describing the U.S. property casualty industry in 2022 noted challenges, including elevated inflation, increasing loss costs and pricing pressures as insurers seek rate adequacy. We continue to respond with rate increases, pricing precision for individual risks and use of inflation factors that respond to higher costs to repair property. We believe we can continue to profitably grow premiums in our personal lines insurance segment through new agency appointments and ongoing focus on the high net worth personal lines market. Drivers of our profitable growth for our high net worth business also include selectively using non-admitted insurance property forms and rates in certain catastrophe-prone states and geographies.

Our high net worth initiative, along with various other actions to improve performance in our personal lines insurance segment, is discussed in greater detail in Personal Lines Insurance Results and also in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Strategic Initiatives and Our Segments, Personal Lines Insurance Segment.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 77

Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results

Overview – Three-Year Highlights

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ --- --------- ---- --------- --- ---------- - ---------- ----- - ----- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Earned premiums $ 485 $ 398 $ 325 22 22
Fee revenues 2 2 2 0 0
Total revenues 487 400 327 22 22
Loss and loss expenses from:
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 319 240 187 33 28
Current accident year catastrophe losses 5 3 5 67 (40)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (8) 7 7 nm 0
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1) — — nm 0
Loss and loss expenses 315 250 199 26 26
Underwriting expenses 124 106 94 17 13
Underwriting profit $ 48 $ 44 $ 34 9 29

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year before catastrophe losses 65.7 % 60.3 % 57.7 % 5.4 2.6
Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.0 0.6 1.3 0.4 (0.7)
Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.7) 1.9 2.1 (3.6) (0.2)
Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.2) 0.0 0.2 (0.2) (0.2)
Loss and loss expenses 64.8 62.8 61.3 2.0 1.5
Underwriting expenses 25.6 26.7 28.7 (1.1) (2.0)
Combined ratio 90.4 % 89.5 % 90.0 % 0.9 (0.5)

Combined ratio: 90.4 % 89.5 % 90.0 % 0.9 (0.5)
Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (0.9) 2.5 3.6 (3.4) (1.1)
Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 91.3 % 87.0 % 86.4 % 4.3 0.6

Our excess and surplus lines insurance segment includes results of The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources Inc. Performance highlights for this segment include:
•Premiums – Earned premiums and net written premiums continued to grow during 2022, including higher renewal written premiums that included average renewal estimated price increases in the high-single-digit range. New business written premiums rose 10% in 2022, compared with 2021, and also contributed to premium growth.
•Combined ratio – The combined ratio increased by 0.9 percentage points in 2021, driven by an increase in the ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses. Approximately 92% of our 2022 earned premiums for the excess and surplus lines insurance segment provided commercial casualty coverages for various insured liability losses that have experienced elevated inflation. Due to increased uncertainty regarding ultimate losses, we intend to remain prudent in reserving for estimated ultimate losses until longer-term loss cost trends become more clear. Incurred losses and loss expenses for excess and surplus lines commercial casualty coverages of $302 million in 2022 increased $69 million or 30%, compared with 2021, in part due to paid losses of $82 million increasing $20 million, or 32%, while earned premiums rose 23%. The ratio for prior accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses decreased, following a period where loss reserves for prior accident years were increased due to older claims settling for higher amounts than expected.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 78

Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Premiums

------------------------------------ ------------------------ --- --------- ---- --------- --- -------- -------- ---- ---- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Agency renewal written premiums $ 392 $ 323 $ 254 21 27
Agency new business written premiums 136 124 110 10 13
Other written premiums (26) (21) (16) (24) (31)
Net written premiums 502 426 348 18 22
Unearned premium change (17) (28) (23) 39 (22)
Earned premiums $ 485 $ 398 $ 325 22 22

The $69 million increase in 2022 renewal premiums reflected the opportunity to renew many policies for the first time as well as higher renewal pricing. Average renewal estimated price increases were in the high-single-digit range during 2022. We measure average changes in excess and surplus lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies.

New business written premiums in 2022 grew by $12 million, or 10%, compared with 2021, as we continued to carefully underwrite each policy in a highly competitive market. Other written premiums in 2022 reduced net written premium growth by $5 million more than in 2021, and are primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and therefore reduce our net written premiums.

Excess and Surplus Lines Loss and Loss Expenses
Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses, as well as the associated loss expenses. The majority of the total incurred losses and loss expenses shown above in the three-year highlights table are for the respective current accident years, with reserve development on prior accident years shown separately. Since less than 20% of our excess and surplus lines current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid amounts, a large majority represents reserves for our estimate of unpaid losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we update our estimates of previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 59.0% accident year 2020 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2020, did not change as of December 31, 2021, as favorable reserve development during 2021 was less than $1 million. During 2022, it developed favorably by 4.2 percentage points to 54.8% due to claims settling for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2022. Accident year 2021 for this segment developed unfavorably during 2022, as indicated by the progression over time of the ratios in the table.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions)
Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums:
Accident year: 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
as of December 31, 2022 $ 324 $ 257 $ 178 66.7 % 64.5 % 54.8 %
as of December 31, 2021 243 192 60.9 59.0
as of December 31, 2020 192 59.0

Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results, explain some of the movement among components of the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio for accident year 2022, compared with 2021. Catastrophe losses added 1.0 percentage point in 2022, 0.6 percentage points in 2021 and 1.3 percentage points in 2020 to the respective excess and surplus lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above.

The 65.7% ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2022 increased by 5.4 percentage points compared with the 60.3% accident year 2021 ratio measured as of December 31, 2021. The increase included a 0.9 percentage-point increase in the ratio for current accident year losses of $1 million or more per claim, shown in the table below.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 79

Excess and surplus lines reserve development on prior accident years was a net favorable $9 million for 2022 and a net unfavorable $7 million for 2021. The net favorable amount for 2022 was primarily for accident year 2020. The 2021 unfavorable reserve development on prior accident years reflected what we believe are now adequate reserves for estimated ultimate losses and loss expenses, as reserves were increased due to older claims settling for higher amounts than expected.

We believe the loss and loss expense reserves for our excess and surplus lines business are adequate. The amount of outstanding reserves for our excess and surplus lines operation can be seen in a table in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. One indication of how long it takes for most of the outstanding reserves to be settled is to measure outstanding reserves by accident year at different points in time, using Item 8, Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. For example, for accident years 2015, 2014 and 2013, in aggregate, after subtracting cumulative paid amounts from incurred amounts at December 31, 2015, reserves for estimated unpaid losses, plus the portion of loss expenses known as ALAE, equaled $187 million. For those same accident years, at December 31, 2022, the reserve estimate for the remaining unpaid amount equaled $5 million. As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, stable historical paid loss patterns are a key assumption used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. The inherent uncertainty in estimating reserves is discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. Development trends by accident year are further discussed in Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year.

Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Losses by Size

---------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ --- --------- ---- --------- --- ---------- - ---------- --- ----- -- --
(Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 $ — $ — $ — nm nm
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 24 16 8 50 100
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 4 3 — 33 nm
Total large losses incurred 28 19 8 47 138
Losses incurred but not reported 68 53 31 28 71
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 127 97 95 31 2
Catastrophe losses 4 2 5 100 (60)
Total losses incurred $ 227 $ 171 $ 139 33 23

Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Current accident year losses greater than $5,000,000 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 0.0
Current accident year losses $1,000,000-$5,000,000 5.0 4.1 2.5 0.9 1.6
Large loss prior accident year reserve development 0.8 0.6 0.0 0.2 0.6
Total large loss ratio 5.8 4.7 2.5 1.1 2.2
Losses incurred but not reported 14.0 13.4 9.5 0.6 3.9
Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 26.2 24.3 29.3 1.9 (5.0)
Catastrophe losses 0.8 0.6 1.4 0.2 (0.8)
Total loss ratio 46.8 % 43.0 % 42.7 % 3.8 0.3

In 2022, total large losses increased by $9 million, net of reinsurance. The ratio for 2022 large losses as a percent of earned premiums increased by 1.1 percentage points, compared with 2021. That ratio for 2021 increased by 2.2 points, compared with 2020. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 80

Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses

--------------------------------------- ------------------------ --- --------- ---- --------- --- ---------- - ---------- ----- ----- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Commission expenses $ 81 $ 70 $ 58 16 21
Other underwriting expenses 43 36 36 19 0
Total underwriting expenses $ 124 $ 106 $ 94 17 13
Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change
Commission expenses 16.7 % 17.5 % 17.6 % (0.8) (0.1)
Other underwriting expenses 8.9 9.2 11.1 (0.3) (1.9)
Total underwriting expenses ratio 25.6 % 26.7 % 28.7 % (1.1) (2.0)

Excess and surplus lines commission expense as a percent of earned premiums for 2022 decreased compared with 2021, largely due to a decrease in the ratio for profit-sharing commissions for agencies. The ratio for 2021 decreased slightly compared with 2020, despite a slight increase in the ratio for profit-sharing commissions for agencies. The ratio for other underwriting expenses decreased in both 2022 and 2021, reflecting ongoing expense management efforts and premium growth outpacing growth in expenses.

Excess and Surplus Lines Outlook
The excess and surplus lines market is expected to see the magnitude of rate increases moderate for risks that are casualty-driven. For property risks involving catastrophe exposures, premium rates in the foreseeable future are expected to be firm. New business opportunities are expected to increase as standard market insurance companies continue to re-underwrite business they previously took from the excess and surplus lines market and as larger excess and surplus lines companies re-underwrite their business with an emphasis on underwriting profitability. Firming is expected to continue for specific classes of business where loss costs are exceeding rates, such as habitational for property and general liability coverages and liquor liability for general liability coverages.

Industry reports suggest that there are opportunities for profitability and growth through greater use of technology. Technology and data are also being used by excess and surplus lines insurance companies to identify new exposures in emerging businesses that need insurance protection or other value-added services.

Our strategy of providing superior service is expected to continue to grow our excess and surplus lines insurance segment and to achieve profitability despite challenging market conditions. We intend to keep carefully selecting and pricing risks, providing prompt delivery of insurance quotes and policies and giving outstanding claims and loss control service from local field representatives who also handle the standard lines business for their assigned agencies. These local representatives are supported by headquarters underwriters and claims managers who specialize in excess and surplus lines.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 81

Life Insurance Results

Overview – Three-Year Highlights

------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ --- --------- ----- --------- ---- -------- -------- ---- --- -- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Earned premiums $ 295 $ 298 $ 289 (1) 3
Fee revenues 4 5 2 (20) 150
Total revenues 299 303 291 (1) 4
Contract holders' benefits incurred 296 340 297 (13) 14
Investment interest credited to contract holders (109) (105) (102) (4) (3)
Underwriting expenses incurred 84 84 85 — (1)
Total benefits and expenses 271 319 280 (15) 14
Life insurance segment profit (loss) $ 28 $ (16) $ 11 nm nm

The COVID-19 pandemic did not have a significant effect on our life insurance segment earned premiums or underwriting expenses for any of the three years ending in 2022. However, the pandemic did contribute to an increase in death claims, primarily in 2021. It is possible we may continue to experience higher than projected future death claims due to the pandemic.

Performance highlights for the life insurance segment also included:
•Revenues – Earned premiums decreased 1% for the year 2022, as shown in the table below that includes details by major line of business. Our largest life insurance product line, term life insurance, rose 5%. Net in-force policy face amounts rose 4% to $80.482 billion at year-end 2022 from $77.493 billion at year-end 2021 and $73.475 billion at year-end 2020.
•Profitability – The life insurance segment frequently reports only a small profit or loss because most of its investment income is included in the investments segment results. We include only investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations) in life insurance segment results. A profit of $28 million for our life insurance segment in 2022, compared with a loss of $16 million in 2021 and $11 million of profit in 2020, was primarily due to more favorable impacts from the unlocking of interest rate and other actuarial assumptions and more favorable mortality experience. The life insurance segment has averaged an annual profit of $6 million over the past five years.

Earned premiums decreased $3 million in 2022, primarily due to a $13 million decrease in universal life earned premiums. Universal life insurance earned premiums can vary, including from changes in interest rate or other actuarial assumptions. Earned premiums increased $10 million in our term life insurance business in 2022. Growth in 2021 was primarily due to term life insurance.

------------------------ ------------------------ --- --------- -- --------- --- -------- -------- ---- ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Term life insurance $ 220 $ 210 $ 197 5 7
Whole life insurance 46 46 43 0 7
Universal life and other 29 42 49 (31) (14)
Net earned premiums $ 295 $ 298 $ 289 (1) 3

Products we market include term, whole and universal life insurance and also fixed annuities. In addition, we offer term and whole life insurance to employees at their worksite. These products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross-serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts.

Over the past several years, we have worked to maintain a portfolio of simple, yet competitive, products. Our product development efforts emphasize death benefit protection and guarantees. Distribution expansion within our property casualty insurance agencies remains a high priority. Our 34 life field marketing representatives work in partnership with our property casualty field marketing representatives. Approximately 65% of our term and other life insurance product premiums were generated through our property casualty insurance agency relationships.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 82

Life insurance segment expenses consist principally of:
•Contract holders’ benefits incurred, related to traditional life and interest-sensitive products, accounted for 77.9% of 2022 total benefits and expenses compared with 80.2% in 2021 and 77.7% in 2020. Total contract holders’ benefits decreased as net death claims were lower in 2022, compared with 2021, and were slightly above our mortality projections.
•Underwriting expenses incurred, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 22.1% of 2022 total benefits and expenses compared with 19.8% in 2021 and 22.3% in 2020. Expenses in 2022 matched 2021, compared with a decrease of 1% in earned premiums. Expenses in 2021 decreased 1%, compared with 3% growth in earned premiums. In 2022, unlocking of interest rate and other actuarial assumptions increased the amount of expenses deferred to future periods, decreasing underwriting expenses. In 2021, unlocking of interest rate and other actuarial assumptions decreased the amount of expenses deferred to future periods, increasing underwriting expenses.

Life insurance segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. This segment’s results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investments segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. We consider the value of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. We seek to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting.

We recognize that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. On a basis that includes investment income and investment gains or losses from life insurance-related invested assets, our life insurance subsidiary reported net income of $66 million in 2022, compared with $44 million in 2021 and $32 million in 2020. The life insurance subsidiary portfolio had after-tax net investment losses of $2 million in 2022, after-tax net investment gains of $8 million in 2021 and after-tax net investment losses of $21 million in 2020. Investment gains and losses are discussed under Investments Results. We exclude most of our life insurance company investment income from investments segment results.

Life Insurance Outlook
The markets for life and annuity products have both been impacted by inflation. Life insurance sales are likely to remain under pressure in the near term as potential clients have reduced discretionary income to spend. As inflation moderates and barring a moderate to severe recession, we expect to see good growth opportunities later in 2023. Fixed annuities have attracted a lot of attention due to market volatility and passage of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022. We expect to benefit when we introduce a new product in the first half of 2023. The current yield curve has allowed us to increase our net earned rate on new asset purchases and reinvestments, and we expect investment income to continue to grow unless a sharp recession compels the Federal Reserve to reverse course and usher in another round of quantitative easing.

We believe the worst of the pandemic is behind us. However, we recognize that there is uncertainty surrounding the long-term health impact of COVID-19 infections, higher rates of psychological stress and some concern that fewer medical screenings over the past few years may lead to higher rates of cancer in the future. All of these could adversely impact mortality results. Conversely, the recent favorable trends in mortality in our book could be an early indication that a significant number of death claims from 2021 and the first two months of 2022 were an acceleration of claims that will lead to favorable mortality results in the near term.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 83

Investments Results

Overview – Three-Year Highlights

Investments Results

------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- -------- -------- ----- --- --- --- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Total investment income, net of expenses $ 781 $ 714 $ 670 9 7
Investment interest credited to contract holders (109) (105) (102) (4) (3)

Investment gains and losses, net (1,467) 2,409 865 nm 178
Investments profit, pretax $ (795) $ 3,018 $ 1,433 nm 111

The investments segment contributes investment income and investments gains and losses to results of operations. Investment income is generally our primary source of pretax and after-tax profits.
•Investment income – Pretax investment income grew $67 million, or 9%, in 2022, due to increases from dividends and interest income. Dividend income grew 12%, reflecting dividend rates that are rising more slowly, minor asset allocation adjustments in our equity portfolio and net purchases of equity securities from available funds. Interest income grew 7% in 2022, compared with 2021, as net purchases of fixed-maturity securities in recent years and rising bond yields are working to generally offset effects of the low interest rate environment of the past several years. Pretax investment income rose 7% in 2021, including increases in interest and dividend income. Average yields in the investment income table below are based on the average invested asset and cash amounts indicated in the table using fixed-maturity securities valued at amortized cost and all other securities at fair value.
•Investment gains and losses – We reported an investment loss in 2022, due to unfavorable changes in fair values of equity securities even though we continue to hold the securities or as otherwise required by GAAP. We reported an investment gain in 2021 and 2020, primarily due to favorable changes in fair values of equity securities.

We believe it is useful to analyze our overall investment performance by using total investment return over several years. Total investment return considers changes in unrealized gains and losses that are not included in net income, in addition to net investment income and investment gains and losses that are included in net income. Changes in unrealized gains and losses shown in the table below include other invested assets. Considering total investment gains and losses over several years helps evaluate performance since gains and losses may experience typical variability during shorter periods of time.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 84

The table below shows total return based on assumptions that simplify cash flow timing that is commonly used in total return measures. This simplified calculation uses data shown in our consolidated financial statements or notes to those statements. Added to invested asset amounts from our consolidated balance sheets are 50% of annual amounts pertaining to invested asset categories included in net cash used in investing activities from our consolidated statements of cash flows. The cash flow amounts are reduced by net gains from investment portfolio securities sales or called bonds, with the net result reduced by 50% to represent estimated new cash invested during each respective year. All new cash is assumed to be invested at the midpoint of the year.

Total investment return of negative 9.2% in 2022 was significantly less than in 2021. The 2022 contribution from the investment income component was offset by the net unfavorable effect of the investment gains and losses components. Comparing contributions for 2022 with 2021, investment income rose $67 million, investment gains decreased by $3.876 billion and the invested assets net change in unrealized gains and losses decreased by $1.405 billion. The base component of the return calculation, annual average invested assets, was up 14% in 2022. For 2021 compared with 2020, total investment return rose by 3.3 percentage points, primarily due to a more favorable net effect of the investment gains and losses. The base component of the return calculation, annual average invested assets, increased 10% in 2021.

----------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------- --------- ------ --------- ------ -------- - -------- ------ --- -- -- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Invested assets beginning balance:
Fixed maturities $ 13,022 $ 12,338 $ 11,698 6 5
Equity securities 11,315 8,856 7,752 28 14
Other invested assets 329 348 296 (5) 18
Invested assets beginning balance 24,666 21,542 19,746 15 9
Average acquisitions (dispositions), net 472 538 309 (12) 74
Annual average invested assets $ 25,138 $ 22,080 $ 20,055 14 10

Total investment return:
Investment income, net of expenses $ 781 $ 714 $ 670 9 7
Investment gains and losses, net (1,467) 2,409 865 nm 178
Total invested assets change in unrealized gains and losses (1,639) (234) 436 nm nm
Total $ (2,325) $ 2,889 $ 1,971 nm 47

Total return on invested assets, pretax (9.2) % 13.1 % 9.8 %

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 85

Investment Income
The primary drivers of investment income are highlighted below, followed by additional details of our investment results.
•Interest income increased by $33 million, or 7%, in 2022, compared with 2021. The average fixed-maturity pretax yield decreased by less than 1 basis point but was offset by a larger fixed-maturity portfolio that rose 7% on an average amortized cost basis. Interest income in 2021 increased by $22 million, compared with 2020, when that yield declined by approximately 1 basis point while the portfolio rose 8% on an amortized cost basis.
•Dividend income rose $29 million, or 12%, in 2022, after also rising 12% in 2021. Increases in dividend payment rates for most of the holdings in our common stock portfolio during both 2022 and 2021 drove the increases in dividend income. An increase in funds invested in that portfolio during both 2022 and 2021 also favorably affected dividend income.

------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ ------ --------- ---- --------- ------ -------- - -------- ------ ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Investment income:
Interest $ 510 $ 477 $ 455 7 5
Dividends 275 246 220 12 12
Other 11 5 8 120 (38)
Less investment expenses 15 14 13 7 8
Investment income, pretax 781 714 670 9 7
Less income taxes 123 111 104 11 7
Total investment income, after-tax $ 658 $ 603 $ 566 9 7

Investment returns:
Average invested assets plus cash and cash equivalents $ 24,775 $ 23,215 $ 20,670
Average yield pretax 3.15 % 3.08 % 3.24 %
Average yield after-tax 2.66 2.60 2.74
Effective tax rate 15.8 15.5 15.5

Fixed-maturity returns:
Average amortized cost $ 12,605 $ 11,771 $ 11,210
Average yield pretax 4.05 % 4.05 % 4.06 %
Average yield after-tax 3.35 3.37 3.39
Effective tax rate 17.1 16.8 16.6

In 2022, we continued to invest available cash flow in both fixed income and equity securities in a manner that we believe balances current income needs with longer-term invested asset growth goals. While our bond portfolio more than covers our insurance reserve liabilities, we believe our diversified common stock portfolio of mainly blue chip, dividend-paying companies represents one of our best investment opportunities for the long term. We position our portfolio with consideration to both the low interest rate environment that has prevailed in recent years as well as the potential for a continuation of the 2022 spike in inflation and yields.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 86

The table below summarizes pretax yield to amortized costs excluding any book value adjustments due to impairment for bonds in our fixed-maturity portfolio by various maturity periods.

------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- - --------------------- ----- ---
At December 31, 2022 % Yield Principal redemptions
Fixed-maturity yield profile:
Expected to mature during 2023 3.80 % $ 788
Expected to mature during 2024 4.34 1,076
Expected to mature during 2025 4.59 1,309
Average yield and total expected redemptions from 2023 through 2025 $ 3,173

The average pretax yield of 5.01% for fixed-maturity securities acquired during 2022, shown in the table below, was higher than the 4.22% average yield-to-amortized cost of the fixed-maturity securities portfolio at the end of 2022.

--------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ - ---- ---- -
 Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021
Average pretax yield-to-amortized cost on new fixed maturities:
Acquired taxable fixed maturities 5.26 % 3.52 %
Acquired tax-exempt fixed maturities 3.94 2.65
Average total fixed maturities acquired 5.01 3.47

We discussed our portfolio strategies in Item 1, Investments Segment. We discuss risks related to our investment income and our fixed-maturity and equity investment portfolios in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 87

Total Investment Gains and Losses
Investment gains and losses are recognized on the sales of investments, for certain changes in fair values of securities even though we continue to hold the securities or as otherwise required by GAAP. The change in fair value for equity securities still held is reported in net income, as disclosed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Total investment gains and losses in 2022 included $1.526 billion of net losses from the recognition of fair value changes of equity securities still held that prior to 2018 would have been reported in other comprehensive income (OCI) instead of net income. Change in unrealized gains or losses for fixed-maturity securities are included as a component of OCI. Accounting requirements for the allowance for credit losses and impairment charges for write-downs of impaired securities in the fixed-maturity portfolio are disclosed in Item 8, Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The factors we consider when evaluating impairments are also discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment.

The timing of gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on results in any given period. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, effect on total shareholders’ equity because most equity and fixed-maturity investments are carried at fair value.

As appropriate, we buy, hold or sell both fixed-maturity and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve our portfolio objectives. We generally purchase fixed-maturity securities with the intention to hold until maturity. If they no longer meet our investment criteria, they are divested. Sales of fixed-maturity securities are usually due to a change in credit fundamentals. The pretax total investment loss in 2022 was due to unfavorable changes in fair values of equity securities and a net unfavorable change in unrealized gains or losses for fixed-maturity securities, even though we continue to hold the securities. In 2021 and 2020, pretax total investment gains were largely due to favorable changes in fair values of equity securities, as shown in the table below. Additional information about investment gains or losses is included in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The table below summarizes total investment gains and losses, before taxes.

---------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- - -----
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Investment gains and losses
Equity securities:
Investment gains and losses on securities sold, net $ 16 $ 4 $ 79
Unrealized gains and losses on securities still held, net (1,526) 2,278 841

Subtotal (1,510) 2,282 920
Fixed-maturity securities:
Gross realized gains 6 36 16
Gross realized losses (4) (5) (3)
Write-down of impaired securities (5) (1) (78)
Subtotal (3) 30 (65)
Other 46 97 10
Total investment gains and losses reported in net income $ (1,467) $ 2,409 $ 865
Change in unrealized investment gains and losses reported in OCI
Fixed-maturity securities (1,639) (234) 436

Total $ (3,106) $ 2,175 $ 1,301

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 88

Write-downs of impaired securities from the investment portfolio by the asset classes we described in Item 1, Our Segments, Investments Segment, are summarized below:

------------------------------------------ ------------------------ - ---- - ---- - -- - - --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Taxable fixed maturities:
Impairment amount $ 5 $ — $ 77
New amortized cost $ 8 $ — $ 78
Percent to total amortized cost owned — % — % 1 %
Number of impaired securities written down 2 — 13
Percent to number of securities owned — % — % 2 %

Tax-exempt fixed maturities:
Impairment amount $ — $ 1 $ 1
New amortized cost $ 1 $ 2 $ 1
Percent to total amortized cost owned — % — % — %
Number of impaired securities written down 1 5 1
Percent to number of securities owned — % — % — %

Totals:
Impairment amount $ 5 $ 1 $ 78
New amortized cost $ 9 $ 2 $ 79
Percent to total amortized cost owned — % — % 1 %
Number of impaired securities written down 3 5 14
Percent to number of securities owned — % — % 1 %

Write-downs of impaired securities from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized as follows:

------------------------ ------------------------ - ---- - ---- - -- - --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Fixed maturities:
Energy $ — $ — $ 62

Real estate 5 — 13

Consumer goods — — 1
Municipal — 1 1
Technology & Electronics — — 1

Total fixed maturities $ 5 $ 1 $ 78

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 89

Investments Outlook
During 2022, the Federal Reserve aggressively increased rates to combat inflation that proved to be more than transitory. Combined with credit spreads widening, these pressures helped to drive down bond values while equity market volatility spiked, and stock values correspondingly dropped over the course of the year.

We took advantage of the increase in interest rates during 2022 but maintained a balanced approach to our allocation between bonds and stocks. We will continue our focus on near-term income generation with an eye to long-term book value growth within the framework of our corporate liquidity objectives as well as adherence to insurance department regulations and consideration of rating agency commentary. We discuss our portfolio strategies in Item 1, Our Segments, Investments Segment.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 90

Other
Total revenues in 2022 and 2021 for our Other operations increased, compared with the respective prior-year periods, primarily due to earned premiums of Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global. Other also includes noninvestment operations of the parent company and its commercial leasing and financial services subsidiary, CFC Investment Company. Total expenses for Other also increased in 2022 and 2021, primarily due to losses and loss expenses and underwriting expenses from Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global.

Other loss in the table below represents losses before income taxes. For each year shown, Other loss was largely driven by interest expense from debt of the parent company. Net results for the combination of Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global were an underwriting profit of approximately $36 million in 2022 and underwriting losses of approximately $8 million in 2021 and $26 million in 2020. The underwriting loss in 2020 included $31 million of pandemic-related incurred losses and expenses, as discussed in Corporate Financial Highlights of Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

Cincinnati Re represented 72% of Other earned premiums in 2022 and 36% of underwriting profit. Earned premiums in 2022, compared with 2021, grew 33%. The mix of 2022 earned premiums for Cincinnati Re by primary type of insured exposures included 53% for casualty, 33% for property and 14% for specialty. Cincinnati Re in total generated an underwriting profit of $13 million in 2022 and $3 million in 2020 and had an underwriting loss of $32 million in 2021.

Cincinnati Global represented 28% of Other earned premiums in 2022 and 64% of underwriting profit. In 2022, earned premiums rose 16%, compared with 2021. Underwriting profit for Cincinnati Global was $23 million in 2022 and $24 million in 2021, following an underwriting loss of $29 million in 2020.

------------------------------------- ------------------------ ---- --------- --- --------- ---- -------- -------- ---- ---- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Interest and fees on loans and leases $ 7 $ 7 $ 6 0 17
Earned premiums 726 570 427 27 33
Other revenues 3 3 4 0 (25)
Total revenues 736 580 437 27 33
Interest expense 53 53 54 0 (2)
Loss and loss expenses 474 414 325 14 27
Underwriting expenses 216 164 128 32 28
Operating expenses 23 20 20 15 0
Total expenses 766 651 527 18 24
Other loss $ (30) $ (71) $ (90) 58 21

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 91

Taxes
We had a $207 million income tax benefit in 2022, compared with income tax expense of $724 million in 2021 and $283 million in 2020. The corporate effective tax rate for 2022 was 29.9% compared with 19.7% in 2021 and 18.9% in 2020.

The changes in our effective tax rate between periods were primarily due to large changes in our net investment gains and losses included in income for the periods, and changes in underwriting income and investment income.

Historically, we have pursued a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax-advantaged, fixed-maturity securities and some in equity securities to minimize our overall tax liability and maximize after-tax earnings. See Item 1, Our Segments, Fixed-Maturity Securities Investments, for further discussion on municipal bond purchases in our fixed-maturity investment portfolio.

For tax years after 2017, for our property casualty insurance subsidiaries, approximately 75% of interest from tax-advantaged, fixed-maturity investments and approximately 40% of dividends from qualified equities are exempt from federal tax after applying proration. For our noninsurance companies, the dividend received deduction exempts 50% of dividends from qualified equities. Our life insurance company does not own tax-advantaged, fixed-maturity investments or equities subject to the dividend received deduction.

Our effective tax rate reconciliation is found in Item 8, Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 92

Liquidity and Capital Resources
We seek to maintain prudent levels of liquidity and financial strength for the protection of our policyholders, creditors and shareholders. We manage liquidity at two levels to meet the short- and long-term cash requirements of business obligations and growth needs. The first is the liquidity of the parent company. The second is the liquidity of our lead insurance subsidiary. Management of liquidity at both levels is essential because each has different funding needs and sources, and each is subject to certain regulatory guidelines and requirements.

The COVID-19 pandemic did not have a significant effect on our cash flows. In addition to our historically positive operating cash flow to meet the needs of operations, we have the ability to slow investing activities if such need arises or to sell a portion of our high-quality, liquid investment portfolio. We also have additional capacity to borrow on our revolving short-term line of credit, as described further below.

Parent Company Liquidity
At December 31, 2022, the parent company had $4.177 billion in cash and marketable securities, providing strong liquidity to fund cash outflows, as needed. The payment of dividends to shareholders is largely based upon receiving subsidiary dividends. Alternatively, we could sell investments or use our line of credit to support the dividend payment.

The parent company’s primary sources of cash inflows are dividends from our lead insurance subsidiary, investment income and sale proceeds from investments. The parent company’s cash outflows are primarily interest and principal payments on long- and short-term debt, dividends to shareholders, common stock repurchases, deposits at Lloyd's and general operating expenses. The table below shows a summary, by the direct cash flow method, of the major sources and uses of cash flow of the parent company.

--------------------------------------- ------------------------ --- ---- --- ---- --- --- - ---
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Sources of liquidity:
Subsidiary dividends received $ 729 $ 598 $ 550
Investment income received 99 90 81
Proceeds from stock options exercised 10 13 7
Return of funds on deposit from Lloyd's — 117 5
Uses of liquidity:
Shareholders' dividend payments $ 423 $ 395 $ 375
Share repurchases 410 144 261
Debt interest payments 53 52 54

Payment of funds on deposit at Lloyd's — 14 47

We expect 2023 parent company sources of cash flow to be similar to 2022. Use of liquidity for share repurchases are discretionary depending on cash availability and capital management decisions. In addition, the subsidiaries have the discretion to pay dividends to the parent company. Cincinnati Global is required to maintain certain capital funding requirements with Lloyd’s, which the parent company may deposit on its behalf. These funding requirements may fluctuate based on the profitability of Cincinnati Global and syndicate solvency capital requirements as set by Lloyd's, which may result in return of funds on deposit. Other than share repurchases and funding at Lloyd's, the majority of expenditures for the parent company have been consistent during the last three years, and we expect future expenditures to remain stable.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 93

Insurance Subsidiary Liquidity
The parent company’s lead insurance subsidiary largely represents the operations of the property casualty segments. The primary sources of cash inflows are collection of premiums, investment income, maturity of fixed-income securities and sale proceeds from investments. Property casualty insurance premiums generally are received before losses are paid under the policies purchased with those premiums. Cash outflows are primarily loss and loss expenses, commissions, salaries, taxes, operating expenses and investment purchases. Over the three-year period ended December 31, 2022, premium receipts and investment income have been more than sufficient to pay claims and operating expenses. Excess cash flows were partially used to pay dividends to the parent company. We are not aware of any known trends that would materially change historical cash flow results, other than fluctuations in catastrophe claims and other large losses, either individually or in aggregate.

The table below shows a summary of operating cash flow for property casualty insurance (direct method). Historically, annual variation in operating cash flow has been largely related to changes in amounts of catastrophe losses.

------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- ---- ------- ---- ----- ------- - -----
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Premiums collected $ 7,054 $ 6,309 $ 5,828
Loss and loss expenses paid (3,687) (3,094) (3,183)
Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid (2,132) (1,842) (1,785)
Cash flow from underwriting 1,235 1,373 860
Investment income received 529 497 456
Cash flow from operations $ 1,764 $ 1,870 $ 1,316

Other Sources of Liquidity
Cash in excess of operating requirements is invested in fixed-maturity and equity securities. Cash generated from investment income provides an important investment contribution to cash flow and liquidity. The sale of investments could provide an additional source of liquidity at either the parent company or insurance subsidiary level, if required. In addition to possible sales of investments, proceeds of calls or maturities of fixed-maturity securities also can provide liquidity. During the five-year period beginning in 2023, fair value of $4.543 billion, or 37.4%, of our fixed-maturity portfolio is scheduled to mature. At December 31, 2022, we had $9.454 billion of common stock securities, with $3.974 billion, or 42.0%, held by the parent company.

Financial resources of the parent company also could be made available to our insurance subsidiaries, if circumstances required it. This flexibility would include our ability to access the capital markets and short-term bank borrowings. We generally have minimized our reliance on debt financing, although we may use the line of credit to fund short-term cash needs.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 94

Long-Term Debt
We provide details of our three long-term notes in Item 8, Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. None of the notes are encumbered by rating triggers. The total principal amount of our long-term debt at December 31, 2022, was $793 million and included:
•$28 million aggregate principal amount of 6.900% senior debentures due 2028.
•$391 million aggregate principal amount of 6.920% senior debentures due 2028.
•$374 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior debentures due 2034.

The company’s senior debt is rated investment grade by four independent rating agencies. None of the rating agencies made changes to our debt ratings in 2022. At February 22, 2023, our debt ratings from the rating agencies were: a from A.M. Best, A- from Fitch, A3 from Moody’s and BBB+ from S&P.

Note Payable
At December 31, 2022, we had a $300 million line of credit with commercial banks, with $50 million and $54 million borrowed at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. That unsecured revolving line of credit has an accordion feature giving us the option to double the $300 million amount, under the same terms and conditions. Terms and conditions of the agreement include a debt-to-total capital maximum of 35% and the agreement has no net worth covenant. It was due to expire on February 4, 2024, with the option of two one-year extensions. We exercised both one-year options to extend the term of the line of credit by two additional years to February 4, 2026.

At year-end 2022, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement and believe we will remain in compliance. The credit agreement provides alternative interest charges based on the type of borrowing and our debt rating. The interest rate charged is adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The agreement contains successor LIBOR rate language, which will require an amendment to reflect the new replacement rate. We intend to amend our line of credit agreement during the first half of 2023 to replace the LIBOR rate with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) plus a credit spread adjustment.

Capital Resources
Capital resources, consisting of shareholders’ equity and total debt, represent our overall financial strength to support current obligations and growth in our insurance businesses. At December 31, 2022, we had total capital of $11.370 billion. Shareholders’ equity was $10.531 billion, a decrease of $2.574 billion, or 20%, from the prior year. Our total debt was $839 million, down $4 million from a year ago. We seek to maintain a solid financial position and provide capital flexibility by keeping our ratio of debt to total capital moderate. At year-end 2022, the ratio was 7.4%, compared with 6.0% at year-end 2021.

At times we enter into letter of credit agreements to support our Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global operations. We have an unsecured letter of credit agreement to provide a portion of the capital needed to support Cincinnati Global's obligations at Lloyd's. The amount of this unsecured letter of credit agreement was $94 million with no amounts drawn at December 31, 2022.

At the discretion of the board of directors, the company can return capital directly to shareholders as discussed below.
•Dividends to shareholders – The ability of our company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors deems relevant. While the board and management believe there is merit to sustaining the company’s long record of dividend increases, our first priority is the company’s financial strength. Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 35% of net income as dividends. Through 2022, the board had increased our cash dividend for 62 consecutive years. The board's decision in January 2023 to increase the dividend demonstrated confidence in the company’s strong capital, liquidity, financial flexibility and initiatives to grow earnings.
•Common stock repurchase – Generally, our board believes that share repurchases can help fulfill our commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares, giving management discretion to purchase shares at reasonable prices in light of circumstances at the time of purchase. Our approach has been to hold capital adequate to support future growth of our insurance operations and repurchase shares at management's discretion. Repurchases are intended to offset the issuance of shares through equity compensation plans, primarily due to vesting of service-based restricted stock units of equity awards granted in the past. The amount of future repurchases may be more, or less, than the past, depending

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 95

on circumstances and discretion exercised by management. Our corporate Code of Conduct restricts repurchases during certain time periods. The details of the repurchase authorizations and activity are described in Item 5, Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Obligations
We pay obligations to customers, suppliers and associates in the normal course of our business operations. Some are contractual obligations that define the amount, circumstances and/or timing of payments. We have other commitments for business expenditures; such as $384 million we expect to fund for our private equity and real estate investments, however, the amount, circumstances and/or timing of our other commitments are not dictated by contractual arrangements.

Contractual Obligations
At December 31, 2022, we estimated our significant future contractual obligations as follows:

------------------------------------------------------ ---- ----- --------- --- - ----- ------ ----- - ----- - ------
(Dollars in millions) Year Years There-
Payment due by period 2023 2024-2027 after Total
Gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments $ 3,052 $ 4,294 $ 990 $ 8,336
Gross life policyholder obligations 79 360 5,744 6,183
Long-term debt — — 793 793
Interest on long-term debt 52 208 163 423

Profit-sharing commissions 189 — — 189

Other liabilities 140 84 3 227
Total $ 3,512 $ 4,946 $ 7,693 $ 16,151

Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook
At December 31, 2022, we had $1.264 billion in cash and cash equivalents. During 2023, our lead insurance subsidiary may pay $651 million in dividends to our parent company without regulatory approval. That strong liquidity and our consistent cash flows give us the flexibility to meet current obligations and commitments while building value by prudently investing where we see potential for both current income and long-term return. Our cash and cash equivalents provide adequate financial cushion when short-term operating results do not meet our objectives.

A long-term perspective governs our liquidity and capital resources decisions, with the goal of benefiting our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over time. Our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can drive performance to achieve our underwriting profitability target of a GAAP combined ratio over any five-year period that consistently averages within the range of 95% to 100%. Our GAAP combined ratio averaged 94.9% over the five-year period 2018 through 2022, resulting in strong underwriting profits.

In any year, we consider the most likely source of pressure on liquidity would be an unusually high level of catastrophe loss payments within a short period of time. There could be additional obligations for our insurance operations due to increasing severity or frequency of noncatastrophe claims. To address the risk of unusually large insurance loss obligations, including catastrophe events, we maintain property casualty reinsurance contracts with highly rated reinsurers, as discussed under 2023 Reinsurance Ceded Programs. We also monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers because their insolvency could jeopardize a portion of our $640 million reinsurance recoverable asset at December 31, 2022. Parent-company liquidity could also be constrained by Ohio regulatory requirements that restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay.

Economic weakness also has the potential to affect our liquidity and capital resources in a number of different ways, including delinquent payments from agencies, defaults on interest payments by fixed-maturity holdings in our portfolio, dividend reductions by holdings in our equity portfolio or declines in the market value of holdings in our portfolio.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 96

LIBOR Discontinuation
We have identified our population of contracts that contain a LIBOR reference and determined our exposure to be minimal. Our identification is primarily related to our line of credit, investments in floating rate securities and late fee provisions. We will continue to work with counterparties to determine alternative rates for each contract identified prior to June 30, 2023.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements
We do not use any special-purpose financing vehicles or have any undisclosed off-balance-sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in applicable SEC rules) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the company’s financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves
Our estimate of future gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments of $8.336 billion is lower than loss and loss expense reserves of $8.400 billion reported on our balance sheet at December 31, 2022. The $64 million difference is due to certain life and health loss reserves. Reserving practices are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves.

For the business lines in the commercial and personal lines insurance segments, and in total for the excess and surplus lines insurance segment and for other parts of our property casualty insurance operations, the following table details gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves, net of salvage and subrogation. The $1.107 billion increase in total gross reserves was primarily due to a $245 million increase in case loss reserves and a $771 million increase in IBNR loss reserves. The increase in total gross reserves included $326 million for our commercial casualty line of business, $219 million for Cincinnati Re and $176 million for excess and surplus lines.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 97

Property Casualty Gross Loss and Loss Expense Reserves

--------------------------- ------------- ----- --------------------- ----- -------------------- ----- ---------------- - ----- ---- ----- ----- -
(Dollars in millions) Loss reserves Loss expense reserves Total gross reserves
 Case reserves IBNR reserves Percent of total

At December 31, 2022
Commercial lines insurance:
Commercial casualty $ 1,163 $ 938 $ 722 $ 2,823 33.9 %
Commercial property 301 256 71 628 7.5
Commercial auto 449 258 131 838 10.1
Workers' compensation 434 521 85 1,040 12.4
Other commercial 98 16 125 239 2.9
Subtotal 2,445 1,989 1,134 5,568 66.8
Personal lines insurance:
Personal auto 222 64 64 350 4.2
Homeowner 189 138 49 376 4.5
Other personal 99 86 5 190 2.3
Subtotal 510 288 118 916 11.0
Excess and surplus lines 302 256 195 753 9.0
Cincinnati Re 156 639 6 801 9.6
Cincinnati Global 163 132 3 298 3.6
Total $ 3,576 $ 3,304 $ 1,456 $ 8,336 100.0 %

At December 31, 2021
Commercial lines insurance:
Commercial casualty $ 1,059 $ 734 $ 704 $ 2,497 34.5 %
Commercial property 357 82 62 501 6.9
Commercial auto 419 220 124 763 10.6
Workers' compensation 442 503 85 1,030 14.3
Other commercial 91 9 116 216 3.0
Subtotal 2,368 1,548 1,091 5,007 69.3
Personal lines insurance:
Personal auto 211 53 60 324 4.5
Homeowner 168 102 44 314 4.3
Other personal 84 87 5 176 2.4
Subtotal 463 242 109 814 11.2
Excess and surplus lines 233 186 158 577 8.0
Cincinnati Re 117 460 5 582 8.1
Cincinnati Global 150 97 2 249 3.4
Total $ 3,331 $ 2,533 $ 1,365 $ 7,229 100.0 %

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 98

Asbestos and Environmental Loss and Loss Expense Reserves
We carried $92 million of net loss and loss expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims at year-end 2022, compared with $88 million at year-end 2021. The asbestos and environmental claims amounts for each respective year constituted less than 2.0% of total net loss and loss expense reserves at these year-end dates.

We believe our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is limited, largely because our reinsurance retention was $500,000 or below prior to 1987. We also were predominantly a personal lines company in the 1960s and 1970s, when asbestos and pollution exclusions were not widely used by commercial lines insurers. During the 1980s and early 1990s, commercial lines grew as a percentage of our overall business and our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims grew accordingly. Over that period, we endorsed to or included in most policies an asbestos and environmental exclusion.

Additionally, since 2002, we have revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation to limit our exposure to mold claims prospectively and further reduce our exposure to other environmental claims generally. Finally, we have not engaged in any mergers or acquisitions through which such a liability could have been assumed. We continue to monitor our claims for evidence of material exposure to other mass tort classes, but we have found no such credible evidence to date.

Reserving data for asbestos and environmental claims has characteristics that limit the usefulness of the methods and models used to analyze loss and loss expense reserves for other claims. Specifically, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expenses for different accident years do not emerge independently of one another as loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods assume. In addition, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expense data available to date did not reflect a well-defined tail, greatly complicating the identification of an appropriate probabilistic trend family model. At year-end 2022, we used a weighted average of a paid survival ratio method and report year method to estimate reserves for IBNR asbestos and environmental claims. Our exposure to such claims is limited; we believe a weighted average of both methods produces a sufficient level of reserves.

Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments
While we believe that historical performance of property casualty and life loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claim payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. We believe that we could meet our obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of our invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit.

Our estimates of gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments do not include reinsurance receivables or ceded losses. As discussed in 2023 Reinsurance Ceded Programs, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our property casualty risk exposure. Ceded property casualty reinsurance unpaid receivables of $405 million at year-end 2022 are an offset to our gross property casualty loss and loss expense obligations. Our reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of a single large loss or an unexpected rise in claim severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover losses under our reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of the reinsurers.

We direct our associates to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as is practical, and we made $3.687 billion of net claim payments during 2022. At year-end 2022, total net property casualty reserves of $7.931 billion reflected $3.397 billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $1.442 billion in loss expense reserves and $3.092 billion in estimates of claims that were incurred but had not yet been reported (IBNR). The specific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and associated loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. We discuss our methods of establishing loss and loss expense reserves and our belief that reserves are adequate in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 99

The historical pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled us to extend slightly the maturities of our investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. The effective duration of our consolidated property casualty fixed-maturity portfolio was 4.8 years at year-end 2022. By contrast, the duration of our loss and loss expense reserves was approximately 3.0 years. We believe this difference in duration does not affect our ability to meet current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, investment holdings could be sold, if necessary, to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses.

Range of Reasonable Reserves
The company established a reasonably likely range for net loss and loss expense reserves of $7.393 billion to $8.099 billion at year-end 2022, with the company carrying net reserves of $7.931 billion. The range was $6.446 billion to $7.014 billion at year-end 2021, with the company carrying net reserves of $6.902 billion. Our loss and loss expense reserves are not discounted for the time-value of money, but we have reduced the reserves by an estimate of the amount of salvage and subrogation payments we expect to recover.

The low point of each year’s range corresponds to approximately one standard error below each year’s mean reserve estimate, while the high point corresponds to approximately one standard error above each year’s mean reserve estimate. We discussed management’s reasons for basing reasonably likely reserve ranges on standard errors in Critical Accounting Estimates, Reserve Estimate Variability.

The ranges reflect our assessment of the most likely unpaid loss and loss expenses at year-end 2022 and 2021. However, actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges.

Management’s best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year-end 2022 and 2021 was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 100

Property Casualty Insurance Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year
The following table shows net reserve changes at year-end 2022, 2021 and 2020 by property casualty segment and accident year:

----------------------------- ---------- ----- -------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------ ---- ----- ---- - -----
(Dollars in millions) Commercial Personal E&S
 lines lines lines Other Totals
As of December 31, 2022
2021 accident year $ (59) $ (52) $ 14 $ 1 $ (96)
2020 accident year (85) (15) (14) (10) (124)
2019 accident year 64 4 (2) 6 72
2018 accident year 26 2 (1) (5) 22
2017 accident year (5) — (2) (3) (10)
2016 accident year (10) (2) (2) (1) (15)
2015 and prior accident years (7) 2 (2) (1) (8)
(Favorable)/unfavorable $ (76) $ (61) $ (9) $ (13) $ (159)

As of December 31, 2021
2020 accident year $ (215) $ (52) $ — $ (16) $ (283)
2019 accident year (58) — 7 (5) (56)
2018 accident year (42) 5 — (7) (44)
2017 accident year (19) 4 1 2 (12)
2016 accident year (11) (1) 1 (6) (17)
2015 accident year — (1) (1) — (2)
2014 and prior accident years (8) (5) (1) — (14)
(Favorable)/unfavorable $ (353) $ (50) $ 7 $ (32) $ (428)

As of December 31, 2020
2019 accident year $ (51) $ (22) $ (2) $ (5) $ (80)
2018 accident year (44) (3) — (9) (56)
2017 accident year (4) 3 (1) (6) (8)
2016 accident year 4 1 8 (5) 8
2015 accident year (10) — 1 — (9)
2014 accident year 4 1 1 — 6
2013 and prior accident years 6 2 — — 8
(Favorable)/unfavorable $ (95) $ (18) $ 7 $ (25) $ (131)

Overall favorable development for consolidated property casualty reserves of $159 million in 2022 illustrated the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long-tail lines such as commercial casualty and workers’ compensation. As noted in Critical Accounting Estimates, Key Assumptions Loss Reserving, our models predict that actual loss and loss expense emergence will differ from projections, and we do not attempt to monitor or identify such normal variations. The table in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves shows reserves by segment and lines of business and the components of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 101

Favorable reserve development was $63 million for our workers' compensation line of business, $54 million for our homeowner line of business and $44 million for our commercial property line of business, together accounting for approximately 101% of the overall total. Unfavorable, or adverse, reserve development included $25 million for our commercial casualty line of business and $23 million for our commercial auto line of business. Drivers of significant reserve development typically reflect loss emergence on known claims that was more favorable or less favorable than previously anticipated for various lines of business and are discussed below.
•Commercial casualty – During 2022, we experienced unfavorable development on prior accident years in aggregate, driven by commercial umbrella coverages. Loss emergence for commercial umbrella claims rose significantly, much more than anticipated. Due to increased uncertainty regarding ultimate losses, we intend to remain prudent in reserving for estimated ultimate losses until longer-term loss cost trends become more clear. During 2021, commercial casualty net reserve development was favorable. We continue to watch this line so we can detect changes in trends as they reoccur.
•Workers’ compensation – We continue to see favorable reserve development, for all prior accident years in aggregate. During 2022 and 2021, the trend for estimated payments to be made in future calendar years was stable compared with 2020. However, we continue to monitor this line closely, as a sudden increase in trend for future payments has a highly leveraged effect.
•Commercial auto – Ultimate losses developed unfavorably during calendar year 2022, for all prior accident years in aggregate. We believe inflation in 2022 and reduced driving during the pandemic caused deviations from historical loss patterns. Due to increased uncertainty regarding ultimate losses, we intend to remain prudent in reserving for estimated ultimate losses until longer-term loss cost trends become more clear. Net reserve development was favorable in 2021 following several years of unfavorable reserve development related to increased business activity after a period of economic recession. As the economy recovered, we believe we were slow to recognize some of the higher loss cost effects in reserve estimates for at least part of that period.
•Commercial property and homeowner – Loss emergence was less than anticipated for both 2022 and 2021. Nearly half of the favorable reserve development for both years related to natural catastrophe events with inherently variable loss patterns.

In consideration of the data’s credibility, we analyze commercial and personal umbrella liability reserves together and then allocate the derived total reserve estimate to the commercial and personal coverages. Consequently, the umbrella factors that contributed to commercial lines reserve development also contributed to personal lines reserve development through the other personal line, of which personal umbrella coverages are a part.

For the excess and surplus lines insurance segment, the table showing reserves by segment and lines of business in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, shows the components of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves increased $176 million from year-end 2021, largely due to the increase in premiums and exposures for this segment, as we discussed in Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results. Net reserve development was a favorable $9 million during 2022, following adverse development of $7 million for both 2021 and 2020. Adverse reserve development during 2021 and 2020 reflected more prudent reserving, as claims on average remained open longer than previously expected. Favorable reserve development following a period of adverse development, or vice-versa, shown in the table above, illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 102

Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations and Reserves

Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations
Our estimates of life, annuity and disability policyholder obligations reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders for future policy benefits, policyholders’ account balances and separate account liabilities. These estimates include death and disability income claims, policy surrenders, policy maturities, annuity payments, minimum guarantees on separate account products, commissions and premium taxes offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force contracts. Further, these estimates are based on mortality, morbidity and lapse assumptions reflective of our recent experience and expectations of future payment obligations.

Our estimates of gross life, annuity and disability obligations do not reflect net recoveries from reinsurance agreements. Ceded life reinsurance receivables were $197 million at year-end 2022. As discussed in 2023 Reinsurance Programs, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our life insurance risk exposure. At year-end 2022, ceded death benefits represented approximately 33.0% of our total gross policy face amounts in force.

These estimated cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows for all years of $6.183 billion (total of life insurance obligations) exceeds the liabilities recorded in life policy and investment contract reserves and separate accounts for future policy benefits and claims of $3.949 billion (total of life insurance policy reserves and separate account policy reserves). A significant portion of the difference can be attributed to the time value of money and changes in mortality, morbidity and lapse assumptions between the date the liabilities were originally established and the current date.

We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these policies and contracts that include mortality, morbidity, timing of claims, future lapse rates and interest crediting rates. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could materially differ from actual results.

Life Insurance Reserves
Gross life policy reserves were $3.059 billion at year-end 2022, compared with $3.014 billion at year-end 2021. The increase was primarily due to reserves for traditional life insurance contracts. We establish reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality and morbidity. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected withdrawal rates and expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current and future expected economic conditions.

We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no-lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no-lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments.

We regularly review our life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that our actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 103

2023 Reinsurance Ceded Programs
A single large loss or an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event is a risk to the company's liquidity and financial strength. To control such losses, we limit marketing property casualty insurance in specific geographic areas and monitor our exposure in certain coastal regions. Examples of this include limiting our earthquake writings in the New Madrid region or leveraging more restrictive terms and conditions through the use of our excess and surplus company in higher risk areas for wildfire or hurricane. Loss exposures in these areas have been identified as a major contributor to our catastrophe probable maximum loss estimates. The table below includes probable maximum loss estimates for the peril of hurricane. These estimates were subsequently reduced, in large part due to less exposure from southeastern U.S. homeowner policies. We also continually review aggregate exposures to large disasters and purchase reinsurance protection to cover these exposures. For business other than Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, we use the Risk Management Solutions (RMS) and Applied Insurance Research (AIR) models to evaluate exposures to a once-in-a-100-year and a once-in-a-250-year event to help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. In conjunction with these activities, we also continue to evaluate information provided by our reinsurance broker. Examples include deterministic modeling of probable maximum loss contribution from growth in new geographic territories.

To help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage for hurricane, earthquake and tornado/hail exposures, for business other than Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global we use the RMS and AIR models to estimate the probable maximum loss from a single event or multiple events occurring in a one-year period. The models are proprietary in nature, and the vendors that provide them periodically update the models, sometimes resulting in significant changes to their estimate of probable maximum loss. As of the end of 2022, both models indicated that a hurricane event represents our largest amount of exposure to losses. The table below summarizes estimated probabilities and the corresponding probable maximum loss from a single hurricane event occurring in a one-year period, for business other than Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, and indicates the effect of such losses on consolidated shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2022. Net losses are net of reinsurance, estimated reinstatement premiums and income taxes, assuming a 21% federal tax rate, and assume our 2023 reinsurance programs apply.

-------------------------------- --------- --------- -------- ------ ------ -------- ----- - --- --- --- - --- --- -
(Dollars in millions) RMS Model AIR Model
 Percent Percent
 Gross Net of total Gross Net of total
Probability at December 31, 2022 losses losses equity losses losses equity
2.0% (1 in 50 year event) $ 488 $ 247 2.3 % $ 512 $ 249 2.4 %
1.0% (1 in 100 year event) 776 326 3.1 785 319 3.0
0.4% (1 in 250 year event) 1,306 619 5.9 1,271 563 5.3
0.2% (1 in 500 year event) 1,893 1,056 10.0 1,750 900 8.5

The modeled losses according to RMS in the table are based on its RiskLink version 22 catastrophe model and use a long-term storm catalog methodology. The modeled losses according to AIR in the table are based on its AIR Touchstone® version 10.0 catastrophe model and use a long-term methodology. The AIR and RMS storm catalogs include decades of documented weather events used in simulations for probable maximum loss projections.

Reinsurance mitigates the risk of highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. Management’s decisions about the appropriate structure of reinsurance protection and level of risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in our underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions.

Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover for losses covered under any reinsurance agreement depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 104

For 2023, the primary participants on our standard market property and casualty per-risk and per-occurrence reinsurance ceded programs include Hannover Ruck SE, Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation, Munich Reinsurance America, Partner Reinsurance Company of the U.S. and Transatlantic Reinsurance Company, all of which had A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings of A (Excellent) or better as of December 31, 2022. Our property catastrophe program is subscribed through a broker by reinsurers from the United States, Bermuda, London and the European markets. The largest participant in our property catastrophe program, representing approximately 19% of total participation, is the Lloyd's of London placement that features numerous syndicates. Some of the other reinsurers with large participation in the program include Lancashire Insurance Company Limited, Partner Reinsurance Company Ltd., Mapfre Re and R&V Versicherung AG.

The following table shows our five largest property casualty reinsurance receivable amounts by reinsurer at year-end 2022 and 2021. Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association is a mandatory nonprofit association which runs a reinsurance program funded by an annual premium assessment per vehicle. This assessment covers Michigan’s automobile no-fault policies, which provide unlimited lifetime coverage for medical expenses resulting from auto accidents. The A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings as of the end of the two most recent years are also shown for each of those reinsurers that have an applicable rating.

---------------------------------------------------- --------------- -- --------------- --- --------------- -- --------------- -- --- --
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Name of reinsurer Totalreceivable A.M. BestRating Totalreceivable A.M. BestRating
Munich Reinsurance America $ 41 A+ $ 52 A+
Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association 37 NA 39 NA
Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation 34 A+ 41 A+
General Reinsurance Corporation 32 A++ 30 A++
Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection & Insurance Company 30 A++ 23 A++

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 105

Primary components of the 2023 property and casualty reinsurance program are summarized below. The premium estimates below occurred near the beginning of each respective year, when direct written premiums that were subject to applicable reinsurance treaties were also estimated.
•Property per risk treaty – The primary purpose of the property treaty is to provide capacity up to $50 million, adequate for the majority of the risks we write. It also includes protection for extra-contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $10 million of each loss. Losses between $10 million and $50 million are reinsured at 100%. The 2023 ceded premium estimate was $54 million, compared with $41 million for the 2022 estimate.
•Property excess treaty – We purchased a property reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $50 million in protection for certain property losses. This treaty, along with the property per risk treaty, provides a total of $100 million of protection. The 2023 ceded premium estimate was approximately $6 million, compared with $4 million for the 2022 estimate.
•Casualty per occurrence treaty – The casualty treaty provides capacity up to $25 million. Similar to the property treaty, it provides sufficient capacity to cover the vast majority of casualty accounts we insure and also includes protection for extra-contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $10 million of each loss. Losses between $10 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100%. The 2023 ceded premium estimate was $19 million, compared with $15 million for the 2022 estimate.
•Casualty excess treaty – We purchase a casualty reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $45 million in protection for certain casualty losses. This treaty, along with the casualty per occurrence treaty, provides a total of $70 million of protection for workers’ compensation, extra-contractual liability coverage and clash coverage losses, which would apply when a single occurrence involves multiple policyholders of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies or multiple coverages for one insured. The 2023 ceded premium estimate was approximately $4 million, compared with $3 million for the 2022 estimate.
•Property catastrophe treaty – To protect against catastrophic events such as wind and hail, winter storms, hurricanes or earthquakes, we purchased property catastrophe reinsurance with a limit up to $1.100 billion. This treaty and our property and casualty treaties contain exclusions for communicable disease and cyber losses. This treaty also contains an exclusion for terrorism which varies in level of coverage across the program. Aggregation of losses into one event, sometimes referred to as an hours clause, varies by peril. For example, the general provision in this treaty is 168 hours, but it is 120 hours for a wind event and 96 hours for a riot or civil commotion event. Losses from the same occurrence can be aggregated into one limit over the hour period applicable to the peril causing the loss and applied to the treaty towards recovery. The treaty contains one reinstatement provision. The 2023 ceded premium estimate was $49 million, compared with $47 million for the 2022 estimate. We retain the first $200 million of any loss, and a share of losses up to $1.100 billion. The percentage share we retain for each layer of coverage is indicated below:
◦58.1% of losses between $200 million and $300 million
◦17.7% of losses between $300 million and $400 million
◦14.4% of losses between $400 million and $600 million
◦41.1% of losses between $600 million and $800 million
◦47.6% of losses between $800 million and $900 million
◦53.8% of losses between $900 million and $1.100 billion

After reinsurance, our maximum exposure to a catastrophic event that causes $1.100 billion in covered losses in 2023 would be $542 million, compared with retention of $499 million in 2022 for an event causing $1.100 billion in covered losses. The largest catastrophe loss event in our history occurred during 2011 from a May 20-27 storm system that included a tornado in Joplin, Missouri, and that also included significant losses from hail in the Dayton, Ohio, area. Our losses from that storm were estimated to be $226 million, before reinsurance, based on updated estimates as of December 31, 2017. The second largest catastrophe loss event in our history occurred during 2022 from a December 21-31 winter storm system that affected many states in the U.S. Our losses from that storm were estimated to be $206 million, before reinsurance, as of December 31, 2022.

Individual risks with insured values in excess of $100 million, as identified in the policy, are handled through a different reinsurance mechanism. We typically reinsure property coverage for individual risks with insured values between $100 million and $250 million under an automatic facultative agreement. For risks with property values exceeding $250 million, we negotiate the purchase of facultative coverage on an individual certificate basis. For casualty coverage on individual risks with limits exceeding $25 million, facultative reinsurance coverage is

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 106

placed on an individual certificate basis. For risks with casualty limits that are between $25 million and $27 million, we sometimes forego facultative reinsurance and retain an additional $2 million of loss exposure.

Terrorism coverage at various levels has been secured in most of our reinsurance agreements. The broadest coverage for this peril is found in the property and casualty working treaties, the property per risk treaty and the casualty per occurrence treaty, which provide coverage for commercial and personal risks. A portion of our property catastrophe treaty provides terrorism coverage for personal risks, and coverage for commercial risks with total insured values of $25 million or less. For insured values between $10 million and $100 million, there also may be coverage in the property working treaty.

A form of reinsurance is also provided through The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA). TRIA was originally signed into law on November 26, 2002, and extended on several occasions. The most recent extension was signed into law on December 20, 2019, and is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2027. TRIA provides a temporary federal backstop for losses related to the writing of the terrorism peril in property casualty insurance policies. Under regulations promulgated under this statute, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage for certain lines of property casualty insurance, including property, commercial multi-peril, fire, ocean marine, inland marine, liability, aircraft and workers’ compensation. In the event of a terrorism event defined by TRIA, the federal government would reimburse terrorism claim payments subject to the insurer’s deductible. The deductible is calculated as a percentage of subject written premiums for the preceding calendar year. Our deductible in 2022 was $658 million (20% of 2021 subject premiums), and we estimate it is $708 million (20% of 2022 subject premiums) for 2023.

Reinsurance protection for the company’s surety business is covered under a separate treaty with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties.

Reinsurance protection for cyber coverage is also through a separate treaty. We offer cyber insurance as an affirmative coverage option on various insurance policies written on a direct basis and subsequently cede all of the related cyber insurance premiums to a reinsurer, therefore transferring substantially all of that risk.

Effective in May 2022, to provide more capacity to retain risks, we added a quota share reinsurance arrangement for our personal lines risks in California that we insure through excess and surplus lines policies. Approximately 27% of the risk is reinsured through ceded premiums.

Effective June 1, 2022, we restructured our reinsurance program for Cincinnati Re only, providing retrocession coverages with various triggers and unique features. That program included property catastrophe excess of loss coverage with a total available aggregate limit of $30 million in excess of $100 million per loss.

Reinsurance protection for Cincinnati Global's business is also provided through separate treaties.

The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has separate property and casualty reinsurance treaties for 2023 through its parent, The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Primary components of the treaties include:
•Property per risk treaty – The property treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. It also includes protection for extra-contractual liability coverage losses. Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters retains the first $1 million of any policy loss. Losses between $1 million and $5 million are reinsured at 100% by The Cincinnati Insurance Company.
•Casualty treaties – The casualty treaty is written on an excess of loss basis and provide limits up to $6 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. A second treaty layer of $5 million excess of $6 million is written to provide coverage for extra contractual obligations or clash exposures. The maximum retention for any one casualty loss is $2 million by Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters. Losses on a per occurrence basis between $2 million and $6 million and extra contractual and clash losses between $6 million and $11 million are reinsured at 100% by The Cincinnati Insurance Company.
•Basket retention – Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters has purchased this coverage to limit their retention to $1 million in the event that the same occurrence results in both a property and a casualty loss.
•Property catastrophe treaty – As a subsidiary of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters is a named insured under our corporate property catastrophe treaty. All terms and conditions of this reinsurance coverage apply to policies underwritten by Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 107

For property risks with limits exceeding $5 million or casualty risks with limits exceeding $6 million, underwriters place facultative reinsurance coverage on an individual certificate basis.

Cincinnati Life, our life insurance subsidiary, purchases reinsurance under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. Our corporate retention is $1 million on a single life. For most of our core term life insurance line of business, we retain no more than a $500,000 exposure on a single policy, ceding the balance using excess over retention mortality coverage, and retaining the policy reserve. Because of the conservative nature of statutory reserving principles, retaining the policy reserve unduly depresses our statutory earnings and requires a large commitment of our capital. Effective November 1, 2015, we increased our retention to $1 million for issue ages up to 61 years on new term life insurance sales. For issue ages 61 years or older, our retention remains $500,000. For term life insurance business written prior to 2005, we retain 10% to 25% of each term policy, not to exceed $500,000, ceding the balance of mortality risk and policy reserve.

We also have catastrophe reinsurance coverage on our life insurance operations that reimburses us for covered net losses in excess of $14 million. Our recovery is capped at $75 million for losses per occurrence.

The following table shows our five largest life reinsurance receivable amounts by reinsurer at year-end 2022 and 2021. Insurer financial strength ratings are also shown.

---------------------------------------- --------------- -- ------------- --------- --------- ---- --------------- -- ------------- -- --------- --------- --
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Name of reinsurer Totalreceivable Rating agency Rating Totalreceivable Rating Agency Rating
Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc. $ 64 A.M. Best A+ $ 66 A.M. Best A+
General Re Life Corporation 46 A.M. Best A++ 44 A.M. Best A++
Lincoln National Life Insurance Company 28 A.M. Best A 30 A.M. Best A+
Employers Reassurance Corporation 15 S&P BBB+ 15 S&P BBB+
Hannover Life Reassurance Co. of America 13 A.M. Best A+ 5 A.M. Best A+

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 108

Safe Harbor Statement
This is our “Safe Harbor” statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
•Effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that could affect results for reasons such as:
◦Securities market disruption or volatility and related effects such as decreased economic activity and continued supply chain disruptions that affect our investment portfolio and book value
◦An unusually high level of claims in our insurance or reinsurance operations that increase litigation-related expenses
◦An unusually high level of insurance losses, including risk of legislation or court decisions extending business interruption insurance in commercial property coverage forms to cover claims for pure economic loss related to the COVID-19 pandemic
◦Decreased premium revenue and cash flow from disruption to our distribution channel of independent agents, consumer self-isolation, travel limitations, business restrictions and decreased economic activity
◦Inability of our workforce, agencies or vendors to perform necessary business functions
•Ongoing developments concerning business interruption insurance claims and litigation related to the COVID-19 pandemic that affect our estimates of losses and loss adjustment expenses or our ability to reasonably estimate such losses, such as:
◦The continuing duration of the pandemic and governmental actions to limit the spread of the virus that may produce additional economic losses
◦The number of policyholders that will ultimately submit claims or file lawsuits
◦The lack of submitted proofs of loss for allegedly covered claims
◦Judicial rulings in similar litigation involving other companies in the insurance industry
◦Differences in state laws and developing case law
◦Litigation trends, including varying legal theories advanced by policyholders
◦Whether and to what degree any class of policyholders may be certified
◦The inherent unpredictability of litigation
•Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns (whether as a result of global climate change or otherwise), environmental events, war or political unrest, terrorism incidents, cyberattacks, civil unrest or other causes
•Increased frequency and/or severity of claims or development of claims that are unforeseen at the time of policy issuance, due to inflationary trends or other causes
•Inadequate estimates or assumptions, or reliance on third-party data used for critical accounting estimates
•Declines in overall stock market values negatively affecting our equity portfolio and book value
•Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit our ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed-maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank-owned life insurance contract assets
•Domestic and global events, such as Russia's invasion of Ukraine, resulting in capital market or credit market uncertainty, followed by prolonged periods of economic instability or recession, that lead to:
◦Significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a particular security or group of securities and impairment of the asset(s)
◦Significant decline in investment income due to reduced or eliminated dividend payouts from a particular security or group of securities
◦Significant rise in losses from surety or director and officer policies written for financial institutions or other insured entities
•Our inability to manage Cincinnati Global or other subsidiaries to produce related business opportunities and growth prospects for our ongoing operations
•Recession, prolonged elevated inflation or other economic conditions resulting in lower demand for insurance products or increased payment delinquencies

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 109

•Ineffective information technology systems or discontinuing to develop and implement improvements in technology may impact our success and profitability
•Difficulties with technology or data security breaches, including cyberattacks, that could negatively affect our or our agents' ability to conduct business; disrupt our relationships with agents, policyholders and others; cause reputational damage, mitigation expenses and data loss and expose us to liability under federal and state laws
•Difficulties with our operations and technology that may negatively impact our ability to conduct business, including cloud-based data information storage, data security, cyberattacks, remote working capabilities, and/or outsourcing relationships and third-party operations and data security
•Disruption of the insurance market caused by technology innovations such as driverless cars that could decrease consumer demand for insurance products
•Delays, inadequate data developed internally or from third parties, or performance inadequacies from ongoing development and implementation of underwriting and pricing methods, including telematics and other usage-based insurance methods, or technology projects and enhancements expected to increase our pricing accuracy, underwriting profit and competitiveness
•Intense competition, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and profitability
•Changing consumer insurance-buying habits and consolidation of independent insurance agencies could alter our competitive advantages
•Inability to obtain adequate ceded reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance coverage purchased, financial strength of reinsurers and the potential for nonpayment or delay in payment by reinsurers
•Inability to defer policy acquisition costs for any business segment if pricing and loss trends would lead management to conclude that segment could not achieve sustainable profitability
•Inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends consistent with current or past levels
•Events or conditions that could weaken or harm our relationships with our independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on our opportunities for growth, such as:
◦Downgrades of our financial strength ratings
◦Concerns that doing business with us is too difficult
◦Perceptions that our level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace
◦Inability or unwillingness to nimbly develop and introduce coverage product updates and innovations that our competitors offer and consumers expect to find in the marketplace
•Actions of insurance departments, state attorneys general or other regulatory agencies, including a change to a federal system of regulation from a state-based system, that:
◦Impose new obligations on us that increase our expenses or change the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates
◦Place the insurance industry under greater regulatory scrutiny or result in new statutes, rules and regulations
◦Restrict our ability to exit or reduce writings of unprofitable coverages or lines of business
◦Add assessments for guaranty funds, other insurance‑related assessments or mandatory reinsurance arrangements; or that impair our ability to recover such assessments through future surcharges or other rate changes
◦Increase our provision for federal income taxes due to changes in tax law
◦Increase our other expenses
◦Limit our ability to set fair, adequate and reasonable rates
◦Place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace
◦Restrict our ability to execute our business model, including the way we compensate agents
•Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings, including effects of social inflation on the size of litigation awards
•Events or actions, including unauthorized intentional circumvention of controls, that reduce our future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 110

•Unforeseen departure of certain executive officers or other key employees due to retirement, health or other causes that could interrupt progress toward important strategic goals or diminish the effectiveness of certain longstanding relationships with insurance agents and others
•Our inability, or the inability of our independent agents, to attract and retain personnel in a competitive labor market, impacting the customer experience and altering our competitive advantages
•Events, such as an epidemic, natural catastrophe or terrorism, that could hamper our ability to assemble our workforce at our headquarters location or work effectively in a remote environment
Further, our insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, global, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. We also are subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for our common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 111

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105 Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[discussed in Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[discussed in Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[discussed in Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[described in Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[described in Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[described in Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[discussed in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[as described in Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
 Results of Operations

Introduction
The purpose of Management’s be read in conjunction with Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. We present per share data on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted, adjusting those amounts for all stock splits and stock dividends.

We begin with an executive summary of our results of operations, followed by other highlights and details about critical accounting estimates. In several instances, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can provide information on our performance within the context of the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis for insurance company regulation in the United States of America. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).

Through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is one of the 25 largest property casualty insurers in the nation, based on net written premium volume for the first nine months of 2022, among approximately 2,000 U.S. stock and mutual insurer groups. We market our insurance products through a select group of independent insurance agencies in 46 states as discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy.

The U.S. economy, the insurance industry and our company continue to face many challenges. Our long-term perspective has allowed us to address immediate challenges while also focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. We believe that this forward-looking view consistently benefits our shareholders, agents, policyholders and associates.

To measure our progress, we have defined a measure of value creation that we believe captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders. We refer to this measure as our value creation ratio (VCR) and it is made up of two primary components: (1) our rate of growth in book value per share plus (2) the ratio of dividends declared per share to beginning book value per share. This measure, intended to be all-inclusive regarding changes in book value per share, uses originally reported book value per share in cases where book value per share has been adjusted, such as after the adoption of Accounting Standards Updates with a cumulative effect of a change in accounting.

The primary sources of our company’s net income are summarized below. We discuss contributions to net income and VCR by source in Corporate Financial Highlights, followed by more detailed discussion in Financial Results.

•Underwriting profit (loss) – Includes revenues from earned premiums for insurance and reinsurance policies or contracts, reduced by losses and loss expenses from associated insurance coverages. Those revenues are further reduced by underwriting expenses associated with marketing policies or related to administration of our insurance operations. The net result represents an underwriting profit when revenues exceed losses and expenses.
•Investment income – Is generated primarily from investing the premiums collected for insurance policies sold, until funds are compounding effects over time.
•Investment gains and losses – Occur from appreciation or depreciation of invested assets over time. Gains or losses are generally recognized from changes in market values of equity securities without a sale or when invested assets are sold or become impaired.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 47

Executive Summary
Our value creation ratio, defined above, is our primary performance target. VCR trends are shown in the table below.

----------------------- ------- - ------------------- ---- ------------------ ---- -
 Oneyear Three-year% average Five-year% average
Value creation ratio:
As of December 31, 2022 (14.6) % 8.6 % 11.2 %
As of December 31, 2021 25.7 23.6 18.7
As of December 31, 2020 14.7 15.0 16.5

We are targeting an annual value creation ratio averaging 10% to 13% over the next five-year period. At negative 14.6% for 2022, our performance was significantly below the low end of that range. It was within the range for the five-year period, but below the range for the three-year period, both that ended in December 2022.

The table below shows the primary components of our value creation ratio on a percentage basis. Analysis of the components aids understanding of our financial performance. Our financial results are further analyzed in the Corporate Financial Highlights section below.

------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ - --------- ----- --------- ---------- - ---------- ------ -----
 Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Pt. Change Pt. Change
Value creation ratio major components:
Net income before investment gains 5.2 % 9.7 % 5.5 % (4.5) 4.2
Change in fixed-maturity securities, realized and unrealized gains (10.1) (1.5) 3.0 (8.6) (4.5)
Change in equity securities, investment gains (9.3) 16.8 7.5 (26.1) 9.3
Other (0.4) 0.7 (1.3) (1.1) 2.0
Value creation ratio (14.6) % 25.7 % 14.7 % (40.3) 11.0

The 2022 value creation ratio decreased by 40.3 percentage points, compared with 2021, with reductions of 26.1 percentage-points from our equity securities investment portfolio and 8.6 points from our fixed-maturity securities investment portfolio. The increase in 2021, compared with 2020, included improved operating results and a higher valuation for our investment portfolio.

We believe our value creation ratio is a useful measure. The table below shows calculations for VCR.

--------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - - -----
(Dollars are per share) Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Value creation ratio:
End of period book value* $ 67.01 $ 81.72 $ 67.04
Less beginning of period book value 81.72 67.04 60.55
Change in book value (14.71) 14.68 6.49
Dividend declared to shareholders 2.76 2.52 2.40
Total value creation $ (11.95) $ 17.20 $ 8.89

Value creation ratio from change in book value** (18.0) % 21.9 % 10.7 %
Value creation ratio from dividends declared to shareholders*** 3.4 3.8 4.0
Value creation ratio (14.6) % 25.7 % 14.7 %

 * Book value per share is calculated by dividing end of period total shareholders']:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105 Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[' equity 10,531 13,105
Book value per share 67.01 81.72
Debt-to-total-capital ratio 7.4 % 6.0 %

Total investments decreased by 9% during 2022 on a fair value basis, and included a decrease in our securities portfolio valuation that offset a 6% increase in its cost basis. Entering 2023, we believe the portfolio continues to be well diversified and is well positioned to withstand short-term fluctuations. We discuss our investment strategy in Item 1, Investments Segment, and results for the segment in Investments Results. Total assets decreased by 5%, compared with year-end 2021. Shareholders’ equity decreased by 20% and book value per share decreased by 18%, for reasons discussed in the preceding Executive Summary.

The amount of our debt obligations decreased by $4 million in 2022, compared with 2021. Our 7.4% ratio of debt to total capital (debt plus shareholders’ equity) at year-end 2022 increased by 1.4 percentage points compared with the prior-year ratio.

Income Statement and Per Share Data

------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- -------- -------- ----- --- -- -
(In millions, except per share data) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Earned premiums $ 7,219 $ 6,482 $ 5,980 11 8
Investment income, net of expenses (pretax) 781 714 670 9 7
Investment gains and losses, net (pretax) (1,467) 2,409 865 nm 178
Total revenues 6,557 9,630 7,536 (32) 28
Net income (loss) (486) 2,946 1,216 nm 142
Comprehensive income (loss) (1,770) 2,825 1,537 nm 84
Net income (loss) per share - diluted (3.06) 18.10 7.49 nm 142
Cash dividends declared per share 2.76 2.52 2.40 10 5
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 158.8 162.7 162.4 (2) 0

A net loss of $486 million in 2022 represented a decrease of $3.432 billion, compared with net income for 2021, including a $3.062 billion reduction in net investment gains on an after-tax basis. The reduced 2022 net income also included a decrease in property casualty underwriting income of $467 million after taxes, as discussed below, and a $55 million increase in investment income after taxes. Our investment operation’s performance is discussed further in Investments Results. Net income in 2021 increased by $1.730 billion, compared with 2020, including a $1.220 billion increase for 2021 net investment gains after taxes. The increase in 2021 net income also included an increase in property casualty underwriting income of $483 million after taxes and a $37 million increase in investment income after taxes.

During 2022, SARS-CoV-2, also known as COVID-19 and recognized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization, continued to cause various effects in parts of the world. We believe it did not have a significant effect on our premium revenues during 2022 and there were no material changes to our estimates for incurred losses and expenses related to the pandemic. In 2021, it caused dampening economic effects in some areas where we

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 50

operate, while many areas experienced strengthening economic effects due to increased business activity and consumer spending. In 2020, it caused significant effects, including temporary closures of many businesses and reduced consumer spending due to shelter-in-place, stay-at-home and other governmental actions. Those orders and the uncertainty surrounding COVID-19 had broad financial market effects and caused significant market disruption and volatility, including to our investment portfolio during 2020.

As the pandemic unfolded in 2020 and continued into 2021, management met with the board of directors frequently to discuss matters such as our response to prioritize the health and safety of our associates, agents and policyholders. Discussion also included near-term and longer-term financial effects. As stay-at-home orders were enacted, we promptly and effectively transitioned most of our headquarters associates to working from home. We provided the technology necessary to keep the business running, as associates continued writing and collecting insurance premiums, responding to claims and performing other operational functions. They joined our field associates who already worked from home, providing agents and policyholders with outstanding service. At the end of 2021, most of our associates continued to work from home. During the first half of 2022, most of our headquarters associates transitioned to a hybrid work schedule, regularly alternating between work at our headquarters and work from remote locations.

While we believe the COVID-19 pandemic did not have a significant effect on our premium revenues for the last three quarters of 2021, in 2020 and early 2021 it slowed the growth of our premium revenues, including new business written premiums. Premium growth by segment is discussed below in Financial Results. For future periods, renewal premium or new business premium amounts could decline if the basis for policy premiums, such as sales and payrolls of businesses we insure, decrease as a result of the pandemic and a weakening economy. We are not able to determine premium effects for future periods.

During 2021, changes to our estimates for incurred losses and expenses related to the pandemic included a $2 million increase in Cincinnati Re® losses, a $1 million decrease in Cincinnati Global Underwriting Ltd.SM (Cincinnati Global) losses and an $8 million decrease in ultimate credit losses related to uncollectible premiums. For full-year 2020, pandemic-related incurred losses and expenses totaled $85 million. The total included $30 million for legal expenses in defense of business interruption claims, $19 million for Cincinnati Re losses, $12 million for Cincinnati Global losses, $8 million for credit losses related to uncollectible premiums and $16 million for the Stay-at-Home policyholder credit for personal auto policies.

Factors used in estimating reserves for business interruption legal expenses included estimates for attorney fees associated with the defense of such lawsuits filed against the company; litigation trends of such cases, including responding to amended and replead cases and cases on appeal; and trends in judicial decisions in cases filed against the company and other insurers.

Approximately half of the losses for Cincinnati Re represent its estimated share from reinsurance treaties with companies that provided affirmative coverage for pandemic-related business interruption, and most of the remainder is an estimated share of treaties covering professional liability. Most of the losses for Cincinnati Global represent its share of potential losses from business interruption coverage for large risks with customized policy terms and conditions.

Most of our commercial property policies are written to preclude coverage for business interruption claims unless there is direct physical loss or damage to property. For this reason, most of our standard market commercial property policies in states where we actively write business do not contain a specific virus exclusion.

Loss experience for our insurance operations is influenced by many factors, as discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves. Because of various factors that affect exposure to certain insurance losses, such as less miles driven for vehicles or reduced sales and payrolls for businesses, there could be a reduction in future losses, and in some cases a generally corresponding reduction in premiums. Also, there could be losses or legal expenses that increase or otherwise occur independently of changes in sales or payrolls of businesses we insure, due to pandemic effects or other factors. We are not able to determine loss effects for future periods.

As discussed in Investments Results, we reported a net investment loss in 2022, primarily due to a $1.526 billion net unfavorable change in fair value for equity securities still held. In both 2021 and 2020, we reported net investment gains, including $2.278 billion in 2021 and $841 million in 2020 from net favorable changes in fair value for equity securities still held.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 51

 Contribution from Insurance Operations

------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- - ---------- ----- ----- --
(Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2022-2021 2021-2020
 2022 2021 2020 Change % Change %
Consolidated property casualty data:
Net written premiums $ 7,307 $ 6,479 $ 5,864 13 10
Earned premiums 6,924 6,184 5,691 12 9
Underwriting profit 140 731 119 (81) 514

 Pt. Change Pt. Change
GAAP combined ratio 98.1 % 88.3 % 98.1 % 9.8 (9.8)
Statutory combined ratio 97.7 87.9 96.7 9.8 (8.8)
Written premium to statutory surplus 1.1 0.9 1.0 0.2 (0.1)

Property casualty net written premiums grew 13% and earned premiums grew 12% in 2022. The growth reflected average renewal price increases, premium growth initiatives and a higher level of insured exposures, including a contribution to net written premium growth of 3 percentage points from Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global in total. The 2021 growth rate for net written premiums was slower, but was driven by factors similar to 2022. Trends and related factors are discussed in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results.

Our property casualty insurance operations generated an underwriting profit for each of the three years ending in 2022. The $591 million decrease in 2022, compared with excellent results in 2021, included higher current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses, reflecting increased uncertainty of estimated ultimate losses, due in part to elevated paid losses reflecting economic or other forms of inflation. The 2022 decrease also included a $135 million increase in losses from natural catastrophe events and $276 million less benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years before catastrophe losses. The $612 million increase in 2021, compared with 2020, included a $195 million decrease in losses from catastrophe events and $265 million more benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years before catastrophe losses.

We measure property casualty underwriting profitability primarily by the combined ratio. Our combined ratio measures the percentage of each earned premium dollar spent on claims plus all expenses related to our property casualty operations, all on a pretax basis. A lower ratio indicates more favorable results and better underlying performance. A ratio below 100% represents an underwriting profit. Initiatives to improve our combined ratio are discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Strategic Initiatives. In 2022, 2021 and 2020, favorable development on reserves for claims that occurred in prior accident years helped offset other incurred losses and loss expenses. Reserve development is discussed further in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. Losses from weather-related catastrophes are another important item influencing the combined ratio and are discussed along with other factors in Financial Results for our property casualty business and related segments.

Our life insurance segment reported a gain of $28 million in 2022 and a loss of $16 million in 2021. We discuss results for the segment in Life Insurance Results. Most of this segment’s investment income is included in our investments segment results. In addition to investment income, investment gains from the life insurance investment portfolio are also included in our investments segment results.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 52

Critical Accounting Estimates
Cincinnati Financial Corporation’s financial statements are prepared using U.S. GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the company’s critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting estimates, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate.

Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves
We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our property casualty insurance business as balance sheet liabilities. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are the estimated amounts necessary to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims. These reserves account for unpaid loss and loss expenses as of a financial statement date.

For some lines of business that we write, a considerable and uncertain amount of time can elapse between the occurrence, reporting and payment of insured claims. The amount we will actually have to pay for such claims also can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate. Gross loss and loss expense reserves were $8.336 billion at year-end 2022 compared with $7.229 billion at year-end 2021.

How Reserves Are Established
Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to the company to provide for our unpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with known claims. Field claims managers supervise and review all claims with case reserves less than $100,000. Additionally, a headquarters supervisor and regional claims manager review claims under $100,000 if litigation or a certain specialty claim is involved. All claims with case reserves of $100,000 or greater are reviewed and approved by experienced headquarters supervisors and regional claims managers. Upper-level headquarters claims managers also review case reserves of $175,000 or more.

Our claims representatives base their case reserve estimates primarily upon case-by-case evaluations that consider:
•type of claim involved
•circumstances surrounding each claim
•policy provisions pertaining to each claim
•potential for subrogation or salvage recoverable
•general insurance reserving practices

Case reserves of all sizes are subject to review on a 90-day cycle, or more frequently if new information about a loss becomes available. As part of the review process, we monitor industry trends, cost trends, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional loss exposures.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 53

We also establish IBNR reserves to provide for all unpaid loss and loss expenses not accounted for by case reserves:
•For events designated as natural catastrophes resulting in losses incurred related to premiums written on a direct basis by The Cincinnati Insurance Companies, we calculate IBNR reserves directly as a result of an estimated IBNR claim count and an estimated average claim amount for each event. Once case reserves are established for a catastrophe event, we reduce the IBNR reserves. Our claims department management coordinates the assessment of these events and prepares the related IBNR reserve estimates. Such an assessment involves a comprehensive analysis of the nature of the event, of policyholder exposures within the affected geographic area and of available claims intelligence. Depending on the nature of the event, available claims intelligence could include surveys of field claims representatives within the affected geographic area, feedback from a catastrophe claims team sent into the area, as well as data on claims reported as of the financial statement date.
To determine whether an event is designated as a catastrophe, related to premiums written on a direct basis by The Cincinnati Insurance Companies, we generally use the catastrophe definition provided by Property Claims Service (PCS), a division of Insurance Services Office. PCS defines a catastrophe as an event that causes U.S., Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands damage of $25 million or more in insured property losses and affects a significant number of policyholders and insureds.
•For events designated as natural catastrophes resulting in losses for Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, we begin with a review of in-force policies, treaties and related limits likely to be affected by each event. For both Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, use of information from third-party catastrophe models, industry estimates, and our own proprietary adjustments are used for the estimate of ultimate losses for each catastrophe event. Incurred losses from catastrophe events for both Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global can be designated catastrophes by PCS, or deemed as a catastrophe by the international insurance industry or, for Cincinnati Re, as reported by ceding companies. IBNR reserves are calculated as the difference between the estimate of the ultimate loss and loss expenses and the sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves.
•For asbestos and environmental claims, we calculate IBNR reserves by deriving an actuarially-based estimate of total unpaid loss and loss expenses. We then reduce the estimate by total case reserves. We discuss the reserve analysis that applies to asbestos and environmental reserves in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Asbestos and Environmental Loss and Loss Expense Reserves.
•For loss expenses that pertain primarily to salaries and other costs related to our claims department associates, also referred to as adjusting and other expense or AOE, we calculate reserves based on an analysis of the relationship between paid losses and paid AOE. Reserves for AOE are allocated to company, line of business and accident year based on a claim count algorithm. Claim counts reported and used in the reserving process are primarily measured by insurance coverages that are triggered when a loss occurs and a reserve is established. Coverages are defined as unique combinations of certain attributes such as line of business and cause of loss. Claims that are opened and closed without payment are included in the reported claim counts. Claim counts are presented on a direct basis only and do not reflect any assumed or ceded reinsurance.
•For all other claims and events, including reinsurance assumed or ceded, IBNR reserves are calculated as the difference between an actuarial estimate of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred reduced by the sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves estimated for individual claims. Reserve amounts for those other claims and events are significant, and represent the majority of amounts shown as IBNR reserves and loss expense reserves in the table included in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves. We discuss below the development of actuarially based estimates of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred.

Our actuarial staff applies significant judgment in selecting models and estimating model parameters when preparing reserve analyses. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are inherently uncertain as to timing and amount. Uncertainties relating to model appropriateness, parameter estimates and actual loss and loss expense amounts are referred to as model, parameter and process uncertainty, respectively. Our management and actuarial staff address these uncertainties in the reserving process in a variety of ways.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 54

Our actuarial staff bases its IBNR reserve estimates for these losses primarily on the indications of methods and models that analyze accident year data. Accident year is the year in which an insured claim, loss or loss expense occurred. The specific methods and models that our actuaries have used for the past several years are:
•paid and reported loss development methods
•paid and reported loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods
•individual and multiple probabilistic trend family models

Our actuarial staff uses diagnostics to evaluate the appropriateness of the models and methods listed above. The appropriateness of these models and methods for estimating IBNR reserves tends to depend on the tail for a line of business. Tail refers to the time interval between a typical claim’s occurrence and its settlement. The loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods, particularly the reported loss variations, tend to produce more appropriate IBNR reserve estimates for our short-tail lines such as homeowner and commercial property. For our mid-tail and long-tail lines, all models and methods provide useful insights.

Our actuarial staff also devotes significant time and effort to the estimation of model and method parameters. The loss development and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods require the estimation of numerous loss development factors. The Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods also involve the estimation of numerous expected loss ratios by accident year. Models from the probabilistic trend family require the estimation of development trends, calendar year inflation trends and exposure levels. Consequently, our actuarial staff monitors a number of trends and measures to gain key business insights necessary for exercising appropriate judgment when estimating the parameters mentioned, such as:
•company and industry pricing
•company and industry exposure
•company and industry loss frequency and severity
•past large loss events
•company and industry premium
•company in-force policy count

These trends and measures also support the estimation of expected accident year loss ratios needed for applying the Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods and for assessing the reasonability of all IBNR reserve estimates computed. Our actuarial staff reviews these trends and measures quarterly, updating parameters derived from them as necessary.

Quarterly, our actuarial staff summarizes their reserve analysis by preparing an actuarial best estimate and a range of reasonable IBNR reserves intended to reflect the uncertainty of the estimate. An inter-departmental committee that includes our actuarial management team reviews the results of each quarterly reserve analysis. The committee establishes management’s best estimate of IBNR reserves, which is the amount that is included in each period’s financial statements. In addition to the information provided by actuarial staff, the committee also considers factors such as:
•large loss activity and trends in large losses
•new business activity
•judicial decisions
•general economic trends such as inflation
•trends in litigiousness and legal expenses
•product and underwriting changes
•changes in claims practices

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 55

The determination of management’s best estimate, like the preparation of the reserve analysis that supports it, involves considerable judgment. Changes in reserving data or the trends and factors that influence reserving data may signal fundamental shifts or may simply reflect single-period anomalies. Even if a change reflects a fundamental shift, the full extent of the change may not become evident until years later. Moreover, since our methods and models do not explicitly relate many of the factors we consider directly to reserve levels, we typically cannot quantify the precise impact of such factors on the adequacy of reserves prospectively or retrospectively.

Due to the uncertainties described above, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings.

Key Assumptions – Loss Reserving
Our actuarial staff makes a number of key assumptions when using their methods and models to derive IBNR reserve estimates. Appropriate reliance on these key assumptions essentially entails determinations of the likelihood that statistically significant patterns in historical data may extend into the future. The four most significant of the key assumptions used by our actuarial staff and approved by management are:
•Emergence of loss and defense and cost containment expenses, also referred to as DCCE, on an accident year basis. Historical paid loss, reported loss and paid DCCE data for the business lines we analyze contain patterns that reflect how unpaid losses, unreported losses and unpaid DCCE as of a financial statement date will emerge in the future. Unless our actuarial staff or management identifies reasons or factors that invalidate the extension of historical patterns into the future, these patterns can be used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Our actuaries significantly rely on this assumption in the application of all methods and models mentioned above.
•Calendar year inflation. For long-tail and mid-tail business lines, calendar year inflation trends for future paid losses and paid DCCE do not vary significantly from a stable, long-term average. Our actuaries base reserve estimates derived from probabilistic trend family models on this assumption.
•Exposure levels. Historical earned premiums, when adjusted to reflect common levels of product pricing and loss cost inflation, can serve as a proxy for historical exposures. Our actuaries require this assumption to estimate expected loss ratios and expected DCCE ratios used by the Bornhuetter-Ferguson reserving methods. They may also use this assumption to establish exposure levels for recent accident years, characterized by “green” or immature data, when working with probabilistic trend family models.
•Claims having atypical emergence patterns. Characteristics of certain subsets of claims, such as high frequency, high severity, or mass tort claims, have the potential to distort patterns contained in historical paid loss, reported loss and paid DCCE data. When testing indicates this to be the case for a particular subset of claims, our actuaries segregate these claims from the data and analyze them separately. Subsets of claims that could fall into this category include hurricane claims or claims for other weather events where total losses we incurred were very large, individual large claims and asbestos and environmental claims.

These key assumptions have not changed since 2005, when our actuarial staff began using probabilistic trend family models to estimate IBNR reserves.

Paid losses, reported losses and paid DCCE are subject to random as well as systematic influences. As a result, actual paid losses, reported losses and paid DCCE are virtually certain to differ from projections. Such differences are consistent with what specific models for our business lines predict and with the related patterns in the historical data used to develop these models. As a result, management does not closely monitor statistically insignificant differences between actual and projected data.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 56

Reserve Estimate Variability
Management believes that the standard error of a reserve estimate, a measure of the estimate’s variability, provides the most appropriate measure of the estimate’s sensitivity. The reserves we establish depend on the models we use and the related parameters we estimate in the course of conducting reserve analyses. However, the actual amount required to settle all outstanding insured claims, including IBNR claims, as of a financial statement date depends on stochastic, or random, elements as well as the systematic elements captured by our models and estimated model parameters. For the lines of business we write, process uncertainty – the inherent variability of loss and loss expense payments – typically contributes more to the imprecision of a reserve estimate than parameter uncertainty.

Consequently, a sensitivity measure that ignores process uncertainty would provide an incomplete picture of the reserve estimate’s sensitivity. Since a reserve estimate’s standard error accounts for both process and parameter uncertainty, it reflects the estimate’s full sensitivity to a range of reasonably likely scenarios.

The table below provides standard errors and reserve ranges by major property casualty lines of business and in total for net loss and loss expense reserves as well as the potential effects on our net income, assuming a 21% federal tax rate. Standard errors and reserve ranges for assorted groupings of these lines of business cannot be computed by simply adding the standard errors and reserve ranges of the component lines of business, since such an approach would ignore the effects of product diversification. See Liquidity and Capital Resources, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Range of Reasonable Reserves, for more details on our total reserve range. While the table reflects our assessment of the most likely range within which each line’s actual unpaid loss and loss expenses may fall, one or more lines’ actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges.

--------------------- ------------------------------------------- ----- --------- --- ---------- ----- -------------- ---------------- ----- -- --- - ---
(Dollars in millions) Net loss and loss expense range of reserves
 Carried reserves Low point High point Standard error Net incomeeffect

At December 31, 2022
Total $ 7,931 $ 7,393 $ 8,099 $ 353 $ 279

Commercial casualty $ 2,779 $ 2,424 $ 2,964 $ 270 $ 213
Commercial property 581 441 682 121 96
Commercial auto 834 791 877 43 34
Workers']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

['s discretion. Repurchases are intended to offset the issuance of shares through equity compensation plans, primarily due to vesting of service-based restricted stock units of equity awards granted in the past. The amount of future repurchases may be more, or less, than the past, depending

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 95

on circumstances and discretion exercised by management. Our corporate Code of Conduct restricts repurchases during certain time periods. The details of the repurchase authorizations and activity are described in Item 5, Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Obligations
We pay obligations to customers, suppliers and associates in the normal course of our business operations. Some are contractual obligations that define the amount, circumstances and/or timing of payments. We have other commitments for business expenditures; such as $384 million we expect to fund for our private equity and real estate investments, however, the amount, circumstances and/or timing of our other commitments are not dictated by contractual arrangements.

Contractual Obligations
At December 31, 2022, we estimated our significant future contractual obligations as follows:

------------------------------------------------------ ---- ----- --------- --- - ----- ------ ----- - ----- - ------
(Dollars in millions) Year Years There-
Payment due by period 2023 2024-2027 after Total
Gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments $ 3,052 $ 4,294 $ 990 $ 8,336
Gross life policyholder obligations 79 360 5,744 6,183
Long-term debt — — 793 793
Interest on long-term debt 52 208 163 423

Profit-sharing commissions 189 — — 189

Other liabilities 140 84 3 227
Total $ 3,512 $ 4,946 $ 7,693 $ 16,151

Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook
At December 31, 2022, we had $1.264 billion in cash and cash equivalents. During 2023, our lead insurance subsidiary while building value by prudently investing where we see potential for both current income and long-term return. Our cash and cash equivalents provide adequate financial cushion when short-term operating results do not meet our objectives.

A long-term perspective governs our liquidity and capital resources decisions, with the goal of benefiting our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over the range of 95% to 100%. Our GAAP combined ratio averaged 94.9% over the five-year period 2018 through 2022, resulting in strong underwriting profits.

In any year, we consider the most likely source highly rated reinsurers, as discussed under 2023 Reinsurance Ceded Programs. We also monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers because their insolvency could jeopardize a portion of our $640 million reinsurance recoverable asset at December 31, 2022. Parent-company liquidity could also be constrained by Ohio regulatory requirements that restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay.

Economic holdings in our portfolio, dividend reductions by holdings in our equity portfolio or declines in the market value of holdings in our portfolio.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 96

LIBOR Discontinuation
We have identified our population of contracts that contain a LIBOR reference and determined our exposure to be minimal. Our identification is primarily related to our line of credit, investments in floating rate securities and late fee provisions. We will continue to work with counterparties to determine alternative rates for each contract identified prior to June 30, 2023.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements
We do not use any special-purpose financing vehicles or have any undisclosed off-balance-sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in applicable SEC rules) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the company’s financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves
Our estimate of future gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments of $8.336 billion is lower than loss and loss expense reserves of $8.400 billion reported on our balance sheet at December 31, 2022. The $64 million difference is due to certain life and health loss reserves. Reserving practices are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves.

For the business lines in the commercial and personal lines insurance segments, and in total for the excess and surplus lines insurance segment and for other parts of our property casualty insurance operations, the following table details gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves, net of salvage and subrogation. The $1.107 billion increase in total gross reserves was primarily due to a $245 million increase in case loss reserves and a $771 million increase in IBNR loss reserves. The increase in total gross reserves included $326 million for our commercial casualty line of business, $219 million for Cincinnati Re and $176 million for excess and surplus lines.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 97

Property Casualty Gross Loss and Loss Expense Reserves

--------------------------- ------------- ----- --------------------- ----- -------------------- ----- ---------------- - ----- ---- ----- ----- -
(Dollars in millions) Loss reserves Loss expense reserves Total gross reserves
 Case reserves IBNR reserves Percent of total

At December 31, 2022
Commercial lines insurance:
Commercial casualty $ 1,163 $ 938 $ 722 $ 2,823 33.9 %
Commercial property 301 256 71 628 7.5
Commercial auto 449 258 131 838 10.1
Workers']:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

['s business is also provided through separate treaties.

The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has separate property and casualty reinsurance treaties for 2023 through its parent, The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Primary components of the treaties include:
•Property per risk treaty – The property treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. It also includes protection for extra-contractual liability coverage losses. Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters retains the first $1 million of any policy loss. Losses between $1 million and $5 million are reinsured at 100% by The Cincinnati Insurance Company.
•Casualty treaties – The casualty treaty is written on an excess of loss basis and provide limits up to $6 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. A second treaty layer of $5 million excess of $6 million is written to provide coverage for extra contractual obligations or clash exposures. The maximum retention for any one casualty loss is $2 million by Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters. Losses on a per occurrence basis between $2 million and $6 million and extra contractual and clash losses between $6 million and $11 million are reinsured at 100% by The Cincinnati Insurance Company.
•Basket retention – Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters has purchased this coverage to limit their retention to $1 million in the event that the same occurrence results in both a property and a casualty loss.
•Property catastrophe treaty – As a subsidiary of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters is a named insured under our corporate property catastrophe treaty. All terms and conditions of this reinsurance coverage apply to policies underwritten by Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters.

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 107

For property risks with limits exceeding $5 million or casualty risks with limits exceeding $6 million, underwriters place facultative reinsurance coverage on an individual certificate basis.

Cincinnati Life, our life insurance subsidiary, purchases reinsurance under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. Our corporate retention is $1 million on a single life. For most of our core term life insurance line of business, we retain no more than a $500,000 exposure on a single policy, ceding the balance using excess over retention mortality coverage, and retaining the policy reserve. Because of the conservative nature of statutory reserving principles, retaining the policy reserve unduly depresses our statutory earnings and requires a large commitment of our capital. Effective November 1, 2015, we increased our retention to $1 million for issue ages up to 61 years on new term life insurance sales. For issue ages 61 years or older, our retention remains $500,000. For term life insurance business written prior to 2005, we retain 10% to 25% of each term policy, not to exceed $500,000, ceding the balance of mortality risk and policy reserve.

We also have catastrophe reinsurance coverage on our life insurance operations that reimburses us for covered net losses in excess of $14 million. Our recovery is capped at $75 million for losses per occurrence.

The following table shows our five largest life reinsurance receivable amounts by reinsurer at year-end 2022 and 2021. Insurer financial strength ratings are also shown.

---------------------------------------- --------------- -- ------------- --------- --------- ---- --------------- -- ------------- -- --------- --------- --
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Name of reinsurer Totalreceivable Rating agency Rating Totalreceivable Rating Agency Rating
Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc. $ 64 A.M. Best A+ $ 66 A.M. Best A+
General Re Life Corporation 46 A.M. Best A++ 44 A.M. Best A++
Lincoln National Life Insurance Company 28 A.M. Best A 30 A.M. Best A+
Employers Reassurance Corporation 15 S&P BBB+ 15 S&P BBB+
Hannover Life Reassurance Co. of America 13 A.M. Best A+ 5 A.M. Best A+

Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2022 10-K - Page 108

Safe Harbor Statement
This is our “Safe Harbor” statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to:
•Effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that could affect results for reasons such as:
◦Securities market disruption or volatility and related effects such as decreased economic activity and continued supply chain disruptions that affect our investment portfolio and book value
◦An unusually high level of claims in our insurance or reinsurance operations that increase litigation-related expenses
◦An unusually high level of insurance losses, including risk of legislation or court decisions extending business interruption insurance in commercial property coverage forms to cover claims for pure economic loss related to the COVID-19 pandemic
◦Decreased premium revenue and cash flow from disruption to our distribution channel of independent agents, consumer self-isolation, travel limitations, business restrictions and decreased economic activity
◦Inability of our workforce, agencies or vendors to perform necessary business functions
•Ongoing developments concerning business interruption insurance claims and litigation related to the COVID-19 pandemic that affect our estimates of losses and loss adjustment expenses or our ability to reasonably estimate such losses, such as:
◦The continuing duration of the pandemic and governmental actions to limit the spread of the virus that may produce additional economic losses
◦The number of policyholders that will ultimately submit claims or file lawsuits
◦The lack of submitted proofs of loss for allegedly covered claims
◦Judicial rulings in similar litigation involving other companies in the insurance industry
◦Differences in state laws and developing case law
◦Litigation trends, including varying legal theories advanced by policyholders
◦Whether and to what degree any class of policyholders may be certified
◦The inherent unpredictability of litigation
•Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns (whether as a result of global climate change or otherwise), environmental events, war or political unrest, terrorism incidents, cyberattacks, civil unrest or other causes
•Increased frequency and/or severity of claims or development of claims that are unforeseen at the time of policy issuance, due to inflationary trends or other causes
•Inadequate estimates or assumptions, or reliance on third-party data used for critical accounting estimates
•Declines in overall stock market values negatively affecting our equity portfolio and book value
•Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit our ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed-maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank-owned life insurance contract assets
•Domestic and global events, such as Russia']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20