================================================================================
CIK: 0000077360
Company Name: PENTAIR plc
Filing Date: 2023-02-21
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 11:07:25
================================================================================

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Forward-looking statements
This report contains statements that we believe to be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Without limitation, any statements preceded or followed by or that include the words “targets,” “plans,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “will,” “likely,” “may,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “projects,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “positioned,” “strategy,” “future” or words, phrases or terms of similar substance or the negative thereof, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors include the overall global economic and business conditions impacting our business, including the strength of housing and related markets and conditions relating to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and related sanctions; supply, demand, logistics, competition and pricing pressures related to and in the markets we serve; the ability to achieve the benefits of our restructuring plans, cost reduction initiatives and transformation program; the impact of raw material, logistics and labor costs and other inflation; volatility in currency exchange rates; failure of markets to accept new product introductions and enhancements; the ability to successfully identify, finance, complete and integrate acquisitions; risks associated with operating foreign businesses; the impact of seasonality of sales and weather conditions; our ability to comply with laws and regulations; the impact of changes in laws, regulations and administrative policy, including those that limit U.S. tax benefits or impact trade agreements and tariffs; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings; and the ability to achieve our long-term strategic operating and ESG goals. Additional information concerning these and other factors is contained in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Pentair assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to update the information contained in this report.
Overview
Pentair plc and its consolidated subsidiaries (“we,” “us,” “our,” “Pentair” or the “Company”) is a pure play water industrial manufacturing company and in 2022 we were comprised of two reporting segments: Consumer Solutions and Industrial & Flow Technologies. We classify our operations into business segments based primarily on types of products offered and markets served. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Consumer Solutions and Industrial & Flow Technologies segments represented approximately 64% and 36% of total revenues, respectively.

Effective January 1, 2023, we reorganized our segments, going from two segments to three, with the three reorganized segments reflecting how we expect to manage our business in 2023. As a result of this segment change, the Consumer Solutions segment was divided into a Pool segment and a Water Solutions segment. Our new Water Solutions segment includes Manitowoc Ice. The Industrial & Flow Technologies segment remains the same. The discussions below reporting on prior periods reflect the previous segmentation, but the descriptions of our businesses below continue to apply in their re-segmented form. Additional information regarding this re-segmentation is found under the section titled “New Segmentation” in ITEM 1 of this Form 10-K.

Although our jurisdiction of organization is Ireland, we manage our affairs so that we are centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”) and therefore have our tax residency in the U.K.
On July 28, 2022, as part of our Consumer Solutions reporting segment, we acquired the issued and outstanding equity securities of certain subsidiaries of Welbilt, Inc. (“Welbilt”) and certain other assets, rights, and properties, and assumed certain liabilities, comprising Welbilt’s Manitowoc Ice business (“Manitowoc Ice”), for approximately $1.6 billion in cash.

Key Trends and Uncertainties Regarding Our Existing Business
The following trends and uncertainties affected our financial performance in 2022, and are reasonably likely to impact our results in the future:
•We executed certain business restructuring initiatives aimed at reducing our fixed cost structure and realigning our business. We expect these actions to continue into 2023 and to drive margin growth.
•In 2021, we created a transformation office and launched and committed resources to the Transformation Program designed to accelerate growth and drive margin expansion by driving operational excellence, reducing complexity and streamlining our processes. During 2022, we made strategic progress on our Transformation Program initiatives with a primary focus on two of our four key themes of pricing excellence and strategic sourcing and built capabilities across all themes, including the other two of operations excellence and organizational effectiveness. We expect to continue to execute on our key Transformation Program initiatives to drive margin expansion and expect to continue to incur transformation costs in 2023 and beyond.

22

•We experienced supply chain challenges, including increased lead times for raw materials due to availability constraints and high demand for these materials. While we have elevated our engagement with our suppliers and used secondary suppliers and new methods of procurement where available to mitigate the supply chain pressures, we expect supply chain challenges to continue in 2023, and which may continue thereafter and could negatively impact our results of operations.
•We experienced inflationary increases in costs of raw materials such as metals, resins and electronics (including drives and motors), as well as increases in logistics, transportation and labor costs. While we have taken pricing actions and we strive for productivity improvements that could help offset these inflationary cost increases, we expect inflationary cost increases to continue in 2023, and which may continue thereafter and could negatively impact our results of operations.
•We experienced increased inventory levels in order to support market demand and reflect ongoing supply chain challenges. In the second half of 2022, we began to see inventory correcting within our residential distributor channels, which we expect to result in moderated volumes for the next few quarters as channel inventories normalize to more historical levels and could negatively impact our results of operations.
•Our backlog, primarily in our Consumer Solutions segment, decreased compared to the backlog at the end of 2021. Shipments outpaced new orders during the period as customers balanced the need to place new orders with market demand and channel inventory levels. This downward trend may continue in 2023 as we expect backlog to return to more historical levels and lead times to improve.
•We have identified specific product and geographic market opportunities that we find attractive and continue to pursue, both within and outside the U.S. We are reinforcing that our businesses more effectively address these opportunities through research and development and additional sales and marketing resources. Unless we successfully penetrate these markets, our core sales growth will likely be limited or may decline.
•The ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to impact global economic conditions. There are many uncertainties regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, including the duration and severity of the pandemic, the spread of increasing number of virus variants, the extent of worldwide social, political and economic disruption it may continue to cause and the distribution and effectiveness of vaccines to address the COVID-19 virus. The broader implications of the COVID-19 pandemic that are reasonably likely to impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows cannot be determined at this time, and ultimately will be affected by a number of evolving factors including the length of time that the pandemic continues and the impact of vaccines on it, the impact of virus variants, the effectiveness of vaccinations, the pandemic’s effect on the demand for our products and services, our supply chain, and our manufacturing and distribution capacity, as well as the impact of governmental regulations imposed in response to the pandemic. For more information regarding factors and events that may impact our business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, see Part I—ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors,” included herein.
In 2023, our operating objectives focus on delivering our core and building our future. We expect to execute these objectives by:
•Delivering profitable revenue growth and productivity for customers and shareholders;
•Continuing to focus on capital allocation through:
◦Committing to maintain our investment grade rating;
◦Focusing on reducing our long-term debt;
◦Returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases; and
◦Accelerating our performance with strategically-aligned mergers and acquisitions;
•Focusing growth initiatives that accelerate our investments in digital, technology and services expansion;
•Continuing to implement our Transformation Program initiatives that will drive operational excellence, reduce complexity and improve our organizational structure; and
•Building a high performance growth culture and delivering on our commitments while living our Win Right values.

23

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The consolidated results of operations were as follows:

----------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ---------------- - ------------ ------------ - ------- ------ ----- --- - ---- -
 Years ended December 31 % / point change
In millions 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
Net sales $ 4,121.8 $ 3,764.8 $ 3,017.8 9.5 % 24.8 %
Cost of goods sold 2,757.2 2,445.6 1,960.2 12.7 % 24.8 %
Gross profit 1,364.6 1,319.2 1,057.6 3.4 % 24.7 %
% of net sales 33.1 % 35.0 % 35.0 % (1.9) pts — pts

Selling, general and administrative 677.1 596.4 520.5 13.5 % 14.6 %
% of net sales 16.4 % 15.8 % 17.2 % 0.6 pts (1.4) pts
Research and development 92.2 85.9 75.7 7.3 % 13.5 %
% of net sales 2.2 % 2.3 % 2.5 % (0.1) pts (0.2) pts

Operating income 595.3 636.9 461.4 (6.5) % 38.0 %
% of net sales 14.4 % 16.9 % 15.3 % (2.5) pts 1.6 pts

(Gain) loss on sale of businesses (0.2) (1.4) 0.1 N.M. N.M.

Net interest expense 61.8 12.5 23.9 N.M. (47.7) %
Other (income) expense (16.9) (1.0) 5.3 N.M. N.M.

Income from continuing operations before income taxes 550.6 626.8 432.1 (12.2) % 45.1 %
Provision for income taxes 67.4 70.8 75.0 (4.8) % (5.6) %
Effective tax rate 12.2 % 11.3 % 17.4 % 0.9 pts (6.1) pts

N.M. Not Meaningful
Net sales
The components of the consolidated net sales change were as follows:

----------------------- ------------ ------------ ---- -
 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
Volume (7.1) % 16.3 %
Price 13.3 4.6
Core growth 6.2 20.9
Acquisition/Divestiture 5.5 2.6
Currency (2.2) 1.3
Total 9.5 % 24.8 %

The 9.5 percent increase in consolidated net sales in 2022 from 2021 was primarily the result of:
•increases in selling prices to mitigate a rise in inflationary costs;
•increased sales from the acquisitions of Manitowoc Ice, Pleatco Holdings, LLC (“Pleatco”), and Ken’s Beverage, Inc (“KBI”) completed in the third quarter of 2022, fourth quarter of 2021 and second quarter of 2021, respectively;
•sales volume increase in our industrial solutions business within our Industrial & Flow Technologies segment; and
•sales volume increase in our commercial water solutions business within our Consumer Solutions segment.

24

This increase was partially offset by:
•sales volume decrease in our Consumer Solutions segment mainly driven by our pool and residential water treatment businesses;
•sales volume decrease in our residential and irrigation flow businesses within our Industrial & Flow Technologies segment; and
•unfavorable foreign currency effects in 2022 compared to the prior year.
Gross profit
The 1.9 percentage point decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales in 2022 from 2021 was primarily the result of:
•inflationary cost increases due to tight supply of raw materials such as metals, resins and electronics;
•higher logistics and labor costs due to increased demand, additional headcount and factory labor wage increases;
•decreased productivity in our Consumer Solutions pool and residential water treatment businesses due to decreased sales volumes;
•decreased productivity in our Industrial & Flow Technologies segment as a result of supply chain and plant inefficiencies;
•inventory impairments and write-offs and certain accruals of $19.6 million recorded as part of exiting businesses in our Consumer Solutions segment;
•amortization of inventory fair market value step-up of $5.8 million as a result of the Manitowoc Ice acquisition; and
•charges of $4.7 million recorded in 2022 for the write-off of inventory and costs related to contracts and orders that we will no longer fulfill in light of our exit of business activity and sales in Russia.
This decrease was partially offset by:
•increases in selling prices to mitigate impacts of inflation.
Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”)
The 0.6 percentage point increase in SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales in 2022 from 2021 was driven by:
•identifiable intangible asset amortization expense of $28.6 million related to the addition of Manitowoc Ice’s definite-lived intangible assets in 2022;
•deal-related costs and expenses of $22.2 million in 2022, compared to $7.9 million in 2021;
•restructuring costs of $36.7 million in 2022, compared to $7.4 million in 2021; and
•transformation costs of $27.2 million in 2022, compared to $11.7 million in 2021.
This increase was partially offset by:
•higher employee incentive expense in 2021 compared to 2022 as a result of stronger financial performance in 2021 than initially forecasted.
Net interest expense
The increase in net interest expense in 2022 from 2021 was the result of:
•increased debt due to the acquisition of Manitowoc Ice;
•increased variable interest rates in 2022 compared to the prior year; and
•the amortization of debt issuance costs of $9.0 million in 2022 related to financing commitments for a bridge loan facility established in connection with the definitive agreement to purchase Manitowoc Ice.

25

Provision for income taxes
The 0.9 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate in 2022 from 2021 was primarily due to:
•the impact of favorable discrete items in 2021 that did not occur in 2022.
This increase was partially offset by:
•the favorable mix of global earnings.
2021 Comparison with 2020
A discussion of changes in our consolidated results of operations, segment results of operations and liquidity and capital resources from the year ended December 31, 2021 to December 31, 2020 can be found in Part II, ITEM 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the SEC on February 22, 2022. However, such discussion is not incorporated by reference into, and does not constitute a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The summary that follows provides a discussion of the results of operations of each of our 2022 reportable segments (Consumer Solutions and Industrial & Flow Technologies). Each of these segments is comprised of various product offerings that serve multiple end users.

We evaluate performance based on net sales and segment income and use a variety of ratios to measure performance of our reporting segments. Segment income represents equity income of unconsolidated subsidiaries and operating income exclusive of intangible amortization, certain acquisition related expenses, costs of restructuring and transformation activities, impairments and other unusual non-operating items.
Consumer Solutions
The net sales and segment income for Consumer Solutions were as follows:

-------------- ----------------------- ------- ---------------- - ------------ ------------ - ------- --- ----- ---- - ---- -
 Years ended December 31 % / point change
In millions 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
Net sales $ 2,619.5 $ 2,341.9 $ 1,742.9 11.9 % 34.4 %
Segment income 611.1 554.4 419.1 10.2 % 32.3 %
% of net sales 23.3 % 23.7 % 24.0 % (0.4) pts (0.3) pts

Net sales
The components of the change in Consumer Solutions net sales were as follows:

----------- ------------ ------------ ---- -
 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
Volume (10.9) % 23.8 %
Price 15.0 5.7
Core growth 4.1 29.5
Acquisition 8.8 4.3
Currency (1.0) 0.6
Total 11.9 % 34.4 %

The 11.9 percent increase in net sales for Consumer Solutions in 2022 from 2021 was primarily the result of:
•increases in selling prices to mitigate impacts of inflation;
•increased sales due to the acquisitions of Manitowoc Ice, Pleatco and KBI completed in the third quarter of 2022, the fourth quarter of 2021 and the second quarter of 2021, respectively; and
•increased sales volume in our commercial water solutions business in 2022 compared to the prior year.
The increase was partially offset by:
•decreased sales volume in our pool and residential water treatment businesses in 2022 compared to the prior year; and

26

•unfavorable foreign currency effects compared to 2021.
Segment income
The components of the change in Consumer Solutions segment income as a percentage of net sales from the prior period were as follows:

------------------------ ----- ---- ----- ---
 2022 2021
Growth/Price/Acquisition 10.8 pts 5.0 pts
Currency — (0.1)
Inflation (9.2) (7.7)
Productivity (2.0) 2.5
Total (0.4) pts (0.3) pts

The 0.4 percentage point decrease in segment income for Consumer Solutions as a percentage of net sales in 2022 from 2021 was primarily the result of:
•inflationary cost increases due to high demand and limited supply of raw materials such as metals, resins and electronics along with increased logistics and labor costs; and
•decreased productivity in our pool and residential water treatment businesses due to decreased sales volume.
This decrease was partially offset by:
•increases in selling prices to mitigate the impacts of inflation; and
•the income of the Manitowoc Ice business that was acquired in the third quarter of 2022.
Industrial & Flow Technologies
The net sales and segment income for Industrial & Flow Technologies were as follows:

-------------- ----------------------- ------- ---------------- - ------------ ------------ - ------- --- ---- --- - ---- -
 Years ended December 31 % / point change
In millions 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
Net sales $ 1,500.8 $ 1,421.4 $ 1,273.6 5.6 % 11.6 %
Segment income 242.3 213.3 164.6 13.6 % 29.6 %
% of net sales 16.1 % 15.0 % 12.9 % 1.1 pts 2.1 pts

Net sales
The components of the change in Industrial & Flow Technologies net sales were as follows:

----------------------- ------------ ------------ ---- -
 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
Volume (0.7) % 5.9 %
Price 10.4 3.2
Core growth 9.7 9.1
Acquisition/Divestiture — 0.4
Currency (4.1) 2.1
Total 5.6 % 11.6 %
`
The 5.6 percent increase in net sales for Industrial & Flow Technologies in 2022 from 2021 was primarily the result of:
•increases in selling prices to mitigate inflationary cost increases; and
•increased sales volume in our industrial solutions business in 2022 due to continued recovery in our project sales.
This increase was partially offset by:
•decreased sales volume in our residential and irrigation flow businesses in 2022 compared to the prior year; and
•unfavorable foreign currency effects in 2022 compared to 2021.

27

Segment income
The components of the change in Industrial & Flow Technologies segment income as a percentage of net sales from the prior period were as follows:

------------------------ ----- ---- ----- ---
 2022 2021
Growth/Price/Acquisition 9.6 pts 3.6 pts
Currency (0.1) 0.1
Inflation (7.4) (3.9)
Productivity (1.0) 2.3
Total 1.1 pts 2.1 pts

The 1.1 percentage point increase in segment income for Industrial & Flow Technologies as a percentage of net sales in 2022 from 2021 was primarily the result of:
•increases in selling prices to mitigate inflationary cost increases.
This increase was partially offset by:
•inflationary cost increases due to high demand and tight supply of metals and resins along with increased logistics costs due to supply chain constraints and labor costs due to workforce shortages; and
•decreased productivity due to supply chain and plant inefficiencies.
BACKLOG OF ORDERS BY SEGMENT

------------------------------ ----------- ----- -------- -------- ------- ---- ------- ------ -
 December 31
In millions 2022 2021 $ change % change
Consumer Solutions $ 483.1 $ 1,073.7 $ (590.6) (55.0) %
Industrial & Flow Technologies 512.1 446.3 65.8 14.7 %
Total $ 995.2 $ 1,520.0 $ (524.8) (34.5) %

The majority of our backlog is short cycle in nature with shipments within one year from when a customer places an order and a substantial portion of our revenues has historically resulted from orders received and products delivered in the same month. A portion of our backlog, particularly from orders for major capital projects, can take more than one year from order to delivery depending on the size and type of order. We record, as part of our backlog, all orders from external customers, which represent firm commitments, and are supported by a purchase order or other legitimate contract. Our backlog of orders is dependent upon when customers place orders and is not necessarily an indicator of our expected results for our 2023 net sales.
The decrease in our backlog in our Consumer Solutions segment from the prior year was primarily driven by pool backlog trending down to more historical levels due to increased manufacturing capacity, improved lead times and customers balancing the need to place new orders with market demand and channel inventory levels.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We generally fund cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, equity investments, acquisitions, debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchases from cash generated from operations, availability under existing committed revolving credit facilities and in certain instances, public and private debt and equity offerings. Our primary revolving credit facility has generally been adequate for these purposes, although we have negotiated additional credit facilities or completed debt and equity offerings as needed to allow us to complete acquisitions.
We experience seasonal cash flows primarily due to seasonal demand in a number of markets. Consistent with historical trends, we experienced seasonal cash usage in the first quarter of 2022 and drew on our revolving credit facility to fund our operations. This cash usage reversed in the second quarter of 2022 as the seasonality of our businesses peaked and generated significant cash to fund our operations. In the second half of 2022, we funded our operations using our strong cash flow and revolving credit facility.
End-user demand for pool and certain pumping equipment follows warm weather trends and historically has been at seasonal highs from April to August. The magnitude of the sales spike has historically been partially mitigated by employing some advance sale “early buy” programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). Demand for

28

residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperature, heavy flooding and droughts.
On July 28, 2022, as part of our Consumer Solutions reporting segment, we completed the acquisition of Manitowoc Ice for approximately $1.6 billion in cash. We funded the purchase price for this acquisition with net proceeds from our term loan facility, the issuance of the 2032 Senior Notes and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, as well as cash on hand.
Summary of Cash Flows

--------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ------- - ----- - -----
 Years ended December 31
In millions 2022 2021 2020
Cash provided by (used for):
Operating activities of continuing operations $ 364.3 $ 613.6 $ 574.2
Investing activities (1,582.8) (390.7) (117.9)
Financing activities 1,232.7 (222.2) (435.9)

Operating activities
In 2022, net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations primarily reflects net income from continuing operations of $615.4 million, net of non-cash depreciation, amortization and asset impairment. Additionally, we had a cash outflow of $218.7 million as a result of changes in net working capital, primarily due to increased inventory balances compared to December 31, 2021. Inventory was higher due to inflationary impacts, continued supply chain inefficiencies and a rebalancing of inventory levels in the residential channel.
In 2021, net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations primarily reflects net income from continuing operations of $633.5 million, net of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Additionally, we had a cash outflow of $20.8 million as a result of changes in net working capital, primarily due to increased sales demand and inflationary impacts leading to higher accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and other current liabilities balances.
Investing activities
Net cash used for investing activities in 2022 primarily reflects the net cash paid of $1,579.5 million for the Manitowoc Ice acquisition and capital expenditures of $85.2 million, partially offset by cash received upon the settlement of net investment hedges of $78.9 million.
Net cash used for investing activities in 2021 primarily reflects capital expenditures of $60.2 million and cash paid for acquisitions of $338.5 million in our Consumer Solutions and Industrial & Flow Technologies reporting segments, net of cash acquired.
Financing activities
In 2022, net cash provided by financing activities primarily relates to net borrowings of revolving long-term debt of $124.5 million, net proceeds received from the Term Loan Facility and issuance of the 2032 Senior Notes of $1,391.3 million used to finance the Manitowoc Ice acquisition and net cash receipts upon the settlement of cross currency swaps of $12.3 million, partially offset by dividend payments of $138.6 million, repayment of $88.3 million senior fixed notes, share repurchases of $50.0 million and payments of debt issuance costs of $15.8 million.
In 2021, net cash used for financing activities primarily relates to repayment of $103.8 million of senior notes, $150.0 million of share repurchases, dividend payments of $133.0 million and payments upon maturity of cross currency swaps of $14.7 million, partially offset by net borrowings of revolving long-term debt of $159.4 million.

29

Free Cash Flow
In addition to measuring our cash flow generation or usage based upon operating, investing and financing classifications included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, we also measure our free cash flow. We have a long-term goal to consistently generate free cash flow that is equal to 100 percent conversion of net income. Free cash flow is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure that we use to assess our cash flow performance. We believe free cash flow is an important measure of liquidity because it provides us and our investors a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available to pay dividends, repurchase shares and repay debt. In addition, free cash flow is used as a criterion to measure and pay compensation-based incentives. Our measure of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The following table is a reconciliation of free cash flow:

--------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------ - ------ - -----
 Years ended December 31
In millions 2022 2021 2020
Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations $ 364.3 $ 613.6 $ 574.2
Capital expenditures of continuing operations (85.2) (60.2) (62.2)
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment of continuing operations 4.1 3.9 0.1
Free cash flow from continuing operations $ 283.2 $ 557.3 $ 512.1
Net cash used for operating activities of discontinued operations (1.0) (0.4) (0.6)

Free cash flow $ 282.2 $ 556.9 $ 511.5

Debt and Capital
Pentair, Pentair Finance S.à r.l (“PFSA“) and Pentair, Inc. are parties to a credit agreement (the “Senior Credit Facility”), with Pentair as guarantor and PFSA and Pentair, Inc. as borrowers, which was amended and restated in December 2021 and further amended in December 2022, providing for a $900.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility and a $200.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility. The revolving credit facility has a maturity date of December 16, 2026 and the term loan facility has a maturity date of December 16, 2024. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility bear interest at a rate equal to an alternate base rate, adjusted term secured overnight financing rate, adjusted euro interbank offered rate, adjusted daily simple secured overnight financing rate or central bank rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin is based on, at PFSA’s election, Pentair’s leverage level or PFSA’s public credit rating.
As of December 31, 2022, total availability under the Senior Credit Facility was $580.0 million. In addition, PFSA has the option to request to increase the revolving credit facility and/or to enter into one or more additional tranches of term loans in an aggregate amount of up to $300.0 million, subject to customary conditions, including the commitment of the participating lenders.
In March 2022, in contemplation of the acquisition of Manitowoc Ice, Pentair and PFSA entered into a Loan Agreement among PFSA, as borrower, Pentair, as guarantor, and the lenders and agents party thereto, providing for a $600.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”). In June 2022, the Term Loan Facility was amended to increase the facility by $400.0 million to an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. The Term Loan Facility has a maturity date of July 28, 2027, with required quarterly installment payments of $6.3 million beginning on the last day of the third quarter of 2023 and increasing to $12.5 million beginning with the last day of the third quarter of 2024. The Term Loan Facility bears interest at a rate equal to an alternate base rate, adjusted term secured overnight financing rate, or adjusted daily simple secured overnight financing rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin is based on, at PFSA’s election, Pentair’s leverage level or PFSA’s public credit rating.
In July 2022, in contemplation of the acquisition of Manitowoc Ice, Pentair, as guarantor, and PFSA, as issuer, completed a public offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.900% Senior Notes due 2032 (“2032 Senior Notes”).
We used the net proceeds from the Term Loan Facility and the issuance of the 2032 Senior Notes to finance a portion of the Manitowoc Ice acquisition purchase price and to pay related fees and expenses.

30

Our debt agreements contain various financial covenants, but the most restrictive covenants are contained in the Senior Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility. The Senior Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility contain covenants requiring us not to permit (i) the ratio of our consolidated debt (net of our consolidated unrestricted cash and cash equivalents in excess of $5.0 million but not to exceed $250.0 million) to our consolidated net income (excluding, among other things, non-cash gains and losses) before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and non-cash share-based compensation expense (“EBITDA”) on the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (each, a “testing period”) to exceed 3.75 to 1.00 (or, at PFSA’s election and subject to certain conditions, 4.25 to 1.00 for four testing periods in connection with certain material acquisitions) (the “Leverage Ratio”) and (ii) the ratio of our EBITDA to our consolidated interest expense, for the same period to be less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter. For purposes of the Leverage Ratio, the Senior Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility provide for the calculation of EBITDA giving pro forma effect to certain acquisitions, divestitures and liquidations during the period to which such calculation relates.
In addition to the Senior Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility, we have various other credit facilities with an aggregate availability of $21.0 million, of which there were no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2022. Borrowings under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates.
We have $12.5 million of Term Loan Facility payments due in the next twelve months. We classified this debt as long-term as of December 31, 2022 as we have the intent and ability to refinance such obligation on a long-term basis under the revolving credit facility under the Senior Credit Facility.
As of December 31, 2022, we had $89.6 million of cash held in certain countries in which the ability to repatriate is limited due to local regulations or significant potential tax consequences.
Authorized shares
Our authorized share capital consists of 426.0 million ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 per share.
Share Repurchases
In May 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of our ordinary shares up to a maximum dollar limit of $750.0 million (the “2018 Authorization”). The 2018 Authorization expired on May 31, 2021. In December 2020, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of our ordinary shares up to a maximum dollar limit of $750.0 million (the “2020 Authorization”). The 2020 Authorization expires on December 31, 2025. The 2020 Authorization supplemented the 2018 Authorization.
During the year ended December 31, 2021, we repurchased 2.1 million of our ordinary shares for $150.0 million, of which 0.8 million shares, or $50.0 million, and 1.3 million shares, or $100.0 million, were repurchased pursuant to the 2018 Authorization and 2020 Authorization, respectively.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, we repurchased 1.0 million of our ordinary shares for $50.0 million under the 2020 Authorization. As of December 31, 2022, we had $600.0 million available for share repurchases under the 2020 Authorization.
Dividends
On December 12, 2022, the Board of Directors approved a 5 percent increase in the Company’s regular quarterly dividend rate (from $0.21 per share to $0.22 per share) that was paid on February 3, 2023 to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 20, 2023. The balance of dividends payable included in Other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $36.2 million at December 31, 2022. Dividends paid per ordinary share were $0.84, $0.80 and $0.76 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Under Irish law, the payment of future cash dividends and repurchases of shares may be paid only out of Pentair plc’s “distributable reserves” on its statutory balance sheet. Pentair plc is not permitted to pay dividends out of share capital, which includes share premiums. Distributable reserves may be created through the earnings of the Irish parent company and through a reduction in share capital approved by the Irish High Court. Distributable reserves are not linked to a U.S. GAAP reported amount (e.g., retained earnings). Our distributable reserve balance was $7.1 billion and $8.4 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Supplemental guarantor information
Pentair plc (the “Parent Company Guarantor”), fully and unconditionally, guarantees the senior notes of PFSA (the “Subsidiary Issuer”). The Subsidiary Issuer is a Luxembourg private limited liability company and 100 percent-owned subsidiary of the Parent Company Guarantor.

31

The Parent Company Guarantor is a holding company established to own directly and indirectly substantially all of its operating and other subsidiaries. The Subsidiary Issuer is a holding company formed to own directly and indirectly substantially all of its operating and other subsidiaries and to issue debt securities, including the senior notes. The Parent Company Guarantor’s principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to make payments on the senior notes pursuant to the guarantees, is dividends from its subsidiaries. The Subsidiary Issuer’s principal source of cash flow is interest income from its subsidiaries. None of the subsidiaries of the Parent Company Guarantor or the Subsidiary Issuer is under any direct obligation to pay or otherwise fund amounts due on the senior notes or the guarantees, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. In addition, there may be statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends from certain subsidiaries of the Parent Company Guarantor or the Subsidiary Issuer. If such subsidiaries are unable to transfer funds to the Parent Company Guarantor or the Subsidiary Issuer and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, the Parent Company Guarantor or the Subsidiary Issuer may not be able to make principal and interest payments on their outstanding debt, including the senior notes or the guarantees.

The following table presents summarized financial information as of December 31, 2022 for the Parent Company Guarantor and Subsidiary Issuer on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the guarantors and issuer and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-Guarantor or issuer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---
In millions December 31,2022

Current assets (1) $ 2.4
Noncurrent assets (2) 2,677.4
Current liabilities (3) 1,068.6
Noncurrent liabilities (4) 2,640.3
(1) No assets due from non-guarantor subsidiaries were included.
(2) Includes assets due from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $2,664.7 million.
(3) Includes liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $989.8 million.
(4) Includes liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $259.8 million.

The Parent Company Guarantor and Subsidiary Issuer do not have material results of operations on a combined basis.
Material cash requirements from contractual obligations and commitments
We expect to continue to have sufficient cash and borrowing capacity to support working capital needs and capital expenditures, to pay interest and service debt and to pay dividends to shareholders quarterly. We believe we have the ability to meet our short-term and long-term cash requirements by using available cash and internally generated funds and to borrow under our committed and uncommitted credit facilities. The following summarizes our material cash requirements from significant contractual obligations and purchase commitments that impact our liquidity as of December 31, 2022:

-------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- -------------------------- ----- - ------- - -------

In millions Next Twelve Months Greater Than Twelve Months Total
Debt obligations (Note 8) $ 12.5 $ 2,326.8 $ 2,339.3
Interest obligations on fixed-rate debt 42.5 322.2 364.7
Operating lease obligations, net of sublease rentals (Note 15) 32.2 55.8 88.0
Purchase and marketing obligations 19.8 14.8 34.6
Pension and other post-retirement plan contributions (Note 11) 9.3 75.3 84.6
Total contractual obligations, net $ 116.3 $ 2,794.9 $ 2,911.2

The majority of the purchase obligations represent commitments for raw materials to be utilized in the normal course of business. For purposes of the above table, arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of the transaction.
In addition to the significant contractual obligations described above, we will incur annual interest expense on outstanding variable rate debt. As of December 31, 2022, variable interest rate debt was $1,520.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.64%.

32

The total gross liability for uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2022 was estimated to be $39.6 million. We record penalties and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in Provision for income taxes and Net interest expense, respectively, which is consistent with our past practices. As of December 31, 2022, we had recorded $0.6 million for the possible payment of penalties and $4.9 million related to the possible payment of interest.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
We have been, and in the future may be, made parties to a number of actions filed or have been, and in the future may be, given notice of potential claims relating to the conduct of our business, including those relating to commercial, regulatory or contractual disputes with suppliers, authorities, customers or parties to acquisitions and divestitures, intellectual property matters, environmental, asbestos, safety and health matters, product liability, the use or installation of our products, consumer matters, and employment and labor matters.
While we believe that a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows from any such future claims or potential claims is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material impact. We do and will continue to periodically reexamine our estimates of probable liabilities and any associated expenses and receivables and make appropriate adjustments to such estimates based on experience and developments in litigation and applicable accounting rules. As a result, the current estimates of the potential impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the proceedings and claims described in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements could change in the future.
Product liability claims
We are subject to various product liability lawsuits and personal injury claims. A substantial number of these lawsuits and claims are insured and accrued for by Penwald, our captive insurance subsidiary. See discussion in ITEM 1 and ITEM 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Insurance subsidiary. Penwald records a liability for these claims based on actuarial projections of ultimate losses. For all other claims, accruals covering the claims are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. The accruals are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available. We have not experienced significant unfavorable trends in either the severity or frequency of product liability lawsuits or personal injury claims.
Stand-by letters of credit, bank guarantees and bonds
In certain situations, Tyco International Ltd., Pentair Ltd.’s former parent company (“Tyco”), guaranteed performance by the flow control business of Pentair Ltd. (“Flow Control”) to third parties or provided financial guarantees for financial commitments of Flow Control. In situations where Flow Control and Tyco were unable to obtain a release from these guarantees in connection with the spin-off of Flow Control from Tyco, we will indemnify Tyco for any losses it suffers as a result of such guarantees.
In the ordinary course of business, we are required to commit to bonds, letters of credit and bank guarantees that require payments to our customers for any non-performance. The outstanding face value of these instruments fluctuates with the value of our projects in process and in our backlog. In addition, we issue financial stand-by letters of credit primarily to secure our performance to third parties under self-insurance programs.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the outstanding value of bonds, letters of credit and bank guarantees totaled $99.7 million and $104.5 million, respectively.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
We have adopted various accounting policies to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in ITEM 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by management in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. These judgments are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the industry and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if:
•it requires us to make assumptions about matters that were uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and
•changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected would have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

33

Our critical accounting estimates include the following:
Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquired businesses over the net of the fair value of identifiable tangible net assets and identifiable intangible assets purchased and liabilities assumed.
We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We perform our annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of the relevant reporting unit with its carrying amount. We would recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized would not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
We have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. However, we may elect to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test even if no indications of a potential impairment exist.
During 2022 and 2021, a qualitative assessment was performed. As a result, it was determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values. Factors considered in the analysis included the 2020 discounted cash flow fair value assessment of the reporting units and the calculated excess fair value over carrying amount, financial performance, forecasts and trends, market capitalization, regulatory and environmental issues, macro-economic conditions, industry and market considerations, raw material costs and management stability. We also consider the extent to which each of the adverse events and circumstances identified affect the comparison of the respective reporting unit’s fair value with its carrying amount. We place more weight on the events and circumstances that most affect the respective reporting unit’s fair value or the carrying amount of its net assets. We consider positive and mitigating events and circumstances that may affect its determination of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value exceeds the carrying amount.
Identifiable intangible assets
Our primary identifiable intangible assets include: customer relationships, trade names, proprietary technology and patents. Identifiable intangibles with finite lives are amortized and those identifiable intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized. Identifiable intangible assets that are subject to amortization are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment charge of $2.7 million was recorded in 2022 related to the write-off of a proprietary technology intangible asset as a result of restructuring initiatives implemented in the fourth quarter of 2022. The impairment charge was recorded in Selling, general and administrative in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income.

Identifiable intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events warrant. We complete our annual impairment test the first day of the fourth quarter each year for those identifiable assets not subject to amortization. The impairment test for trade names consists of a comparison of the fair value of the trade name with its carrying value. Fair value is measured using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes the trade name has value to the extent that the owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. The non-recurring fair value measurement is a “Level 3” measurement under the fair value hierarchy. No impairment charges were recognized in 2022 or 2021 as a result of our annual impairment assessment.

Business combinations
Assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination are recorded at their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price exceeds the estimated fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired. Estimates of intangible asset fair value represent management’s best estimate of assumptions and about future events and uncertainties, including significant judgments related to future cash flows, discount rates, margin and revenue growth assumptions, royalty rates, customer attrition rates, useful lives and others. Inputs used are generally obtained from historical data supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions and growth rates. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these fair values, the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets.

Allocations of the purchase price for acquisitions are based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired and are subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocation. During this measurement period, we will adjust assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known,

34

would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings.

Pension and other post-retirement plans
We sponsor U.S. and non-U.S. defined-benefit pension and other post-retirement plans. The amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements related to our defined-benefit pension and other post-retirement plans are determined from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions, including: expected return on plan assets, discount rates, rate of increase in future compensation levels and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in ITEM 8, Note 11 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our pension and other post-retirement obligations and future expense.
We recognize changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses for pension and other post-retirement benefits annually in the fourth quarter each year (“mark-to-market adjustment”) and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. Net actuarial gains and losses occur when the actual experience differs from any of the various assumptions used to value our pension and other post-retirement plans or when assumptions change as they may each year. The primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses each year are (1) changes in the discount rate used to value pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations as of the measurement date and (2) differences between the expected and the actual return on plan assets. This accounting method also results in the potential for volatile and difficult to forecast mark-to-market adjustments. Mark-to-market adjustments resulted in pre-tax gains of $17.5 million and $2.4 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively, and a pre-tax loss of $6.7 million in 2020. The remaining components of pension expense, including service and interest costs and the expected return on plan assets, are recorded on a quarterly basis as ongoing pension expense.
Discount rates
The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year based on our December 31 measurement date. The discount rate was determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of bonds rated AA or higher available in the marketplace. There are no known or anticipated changes in our discount rate assumptions that will impact our pension expense in 2023.
Expected rate of return
The expected rate of return is designed to be a long-term assumption that may be subject to considerable year-to-year variance from actual returns. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, we considered our historical returns, with consideration given to forecasted economic conditions, our asset allocations, input from external consultants and broader long-term market indices.

Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
A 100 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rates used to measure our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans would result in a $7.1 million increase or $6.1 million decrease in our total projected benefit obligation. A 100 basis point increase or decrease in the assumed rate of return on pension assets or discount rates for our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans would result in an immaterial change in our ongoing pension expense. These estimates exclude any potential mark-to-market adjustments.
Loss contingencies
Accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarial estimates. Additionally, we record receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable.
Income taxes
In determining taxable income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. In estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future pre-tax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses.

35

We currently have recorded valuation allowances that we will maintain until when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. Our income tax expense recorded in the future may be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. The realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. Any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. An increase in the valuation allowance could result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings.
Changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Management records the effect of a tax rate or law change on the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period of enactment. Future tax rate or law changes could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We perform reviews of our income tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrue for uncertain tax positions. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. As events change or resolution occurs, these liabilities are adjusted, such as in the case of audit settlements with taxing authorities. The ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Part II, ITEM 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[described in ITEM 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[described in ITEM 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29
