================================================================================
CIK: 0000091419
Company Name: J M SMUCKER Co
Filing Date: 2023-06-20
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 14:33:17
================================================================================

Item 7.     Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

(Dollars and shares in millions, unless otherwise noted, except per share data)

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to provide an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year-to-year, and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes presented in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Company Background
At The J. M. Smucker Company, it is our privilege to make food people and pets love by offering a diverse portfolio of brands available across North America. We are proud to lead in the coffee, consumer foods, dog snacks, and cat food categories by offering brands consumers trust for themselves and their families each day including Folgers, Dunkin’, Café Bustelo, Jif, Smucker’s Uncrustables, Smucker’s, Milk-Bone, and Meow Mix. Through our unwavering commitment to producing quality products, operating responsibly and ethically, and delivering on our purpose, we will continue to grow our business and the positive impact we have on society.
We have three reportable segments: U.S. Retail Pet Foods, U.S. Retail Coffee, and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods. The U.S. retail market segments in total comprised 87 percent of net sales in 2023, and represent a major portion of our strategic
focus – the sale of branded food and beverage products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. In the U.S. retail market segments, our products are primarily sold to food retailers, club stores, discount and dollar stores, online retailers, pet specialty stores, drug stores, military commissaries, mass merchandisers, and natural foods stores and distributors. International and Away From Home includes the sale of products distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels and foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., health care operators, restaurants, lodging, hospitality, offices, K-12, colleges and universities, and convenience stores).
Strategic Overview
Our Basic Beliefs are the foundation for everything we do as an organization. They serve as guideposts for decision-making and how we interact with our colleagues and partners. As we have grown, we have remained unwavering in our commitment to these values but also recognize how we are called to act upon them must evolve as the world around us does. In this spirit, with 2023 marking our 125th year in business, we introduced an evolution of our Basic Beliefs, building from the original Basic Beliefs, to ensure they are as actionable as possible in order to help our employees continue to bring our unique culture to life. As such, we evolved our Basic Beliefs to Be Bold, Be Kind, Do the Right Thing, Play to Win, and Thrive Together, which are clear, concise, and actionable. In addition, we have been led by five generations of family leadership, having had only six chief executive officers in 125 years. This continuity of management and thought extends to the broader leadership team that embodies the values and embraces the business practices that have contributed to our consistent growth.

Our strategic vision is to engage, delight, and inspire consumers by building brands they love and leading in growing categories. This vision is our long-term direction that guides business priorities and aligns our organization. We will continue to drive balanced, long-term growth by advancing on the following strategic pillars:

•Winning with superior execution;
•Improving profitability and cost discipline;
•Transforming our portfolio;
•Doing our part: Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, and ID and
•Nurturing and evolving our culture.

Our strategic growth objectives include net sales increasing by a low-single digit percentage and operating income excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted operating income”) increasing by a mid-single digit percentage on average over the long-term. Related to income per diluted share excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted earnings per share”), our strategic growth objective is to increase by a high-single digit percentage over the long-term. We expect organic growth, including new products, to drive much of our top-line growth, while the contribution from acquisitions will vary from year-to-year. Our

26

non-GAAP adjustments include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, certain divestiture, acquisition, integration, and restructuring costs (“special project costs”), gains and losses on divestitures, the net change in cumulative unallocated gains and losses on commodity and foreign currency exchange derivative activities (“change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses”), and other infrequently occurring items that do not directly reflect ongoing operating results, such as unrealized gains and losses on the investment in equity securities. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for additional information. Due to the unknown and potentially prolonged impact of the inflationary environment, challenged supply network, and increased labor shortages, we may experience difficulties or be delayed in achieving our long-term strategies; however, we continue to evaluate the effects of the macroeconomic environment on our long-term growth objectives.
Over the past five years, net sales and adjusted earnings per share increased at a compound annual growth rate of 3 percent and 2 percent, respectively, while adjusted operating income has remained consistent. These changes were primarily driven by increased at-home consumption for the U.S. Retail Coffee and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments, partially offset by the reduction in net sales from the divestitures of the private label dry pet food and natural beverage and grains businesses in 2022, Crisco and Natural Balance businesses in 2021, and the U.S. baking business in 2019. Net cash provided by operating activities has remained consistent over the past five years. Our cash deployment strategy is to balance reinvesting in our business through acquisitions and capital expenditures with returning cash to our shareholders through the payment of dividends and share repurchases. Our deployment strategy also includes a significant focus on debt repayment.

Divestitures
On April 28, 2023, we sold certain pet food brands to Post. The transaction included the Rachael Ray Nutrish, 9Lives, Kibbles ’n Bits, Nature’s Recipe, and Gravy Train brands, as well as our private label pet food business, inclusive of certain trademarks and licensing agreements, manufacturing and distribution facilities in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, manufacturing facilities in Meadville, Pennsylvania and Lawrence, Kansas, and approximately 1,100 employees who supported these pet food brands. Under our ownership, these brands generated net sales of $1.5 billion in 2023, and $1.4 billion in both 2022 and 2021, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. Net proceeds from the divestiture were $1.2 billion, consisting of $684.7 in cash, net of a preliminary working capital adjustment and cash transaction costs, and approximately 5.4 million shares of Post common stock, valued at $491.6 at the close of the transaction. Upon completion of this transaction, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $1.0 billion. The net proceeds and pre-tax loss will be finalized during the first quarter of 2024, upon finalization of the working capital adjustment and cash transaction costs.

On January 31, 2022, we sold the natural beverage and grains businesses to Nexus. The transaction included products sold under the R.W. Knudsen and TruRoots brands, inclusive of certain trademarks, a licensing agreement for Santa Cruz Organic beverages, dedicated manufacturing and distribution facilities in Chico, California and Havre de Grace, Maryland, and approximately 150 employees who supported the natural beverage and grains businesses. The transaction did not include Santa Cruz Organic nut butters, fruit spreads, syrups, or applesauce. Under our ownership, the businesses generated net sales of $106.7 in 2022, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment. Final net proceeds from the divestiture were $98.7, inclusive of a working capital adjustment and cash transaction costs. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $28.3 related to the natural beverage and grains businesses, of which $26.7 was recognized during 2022, and the remaining $1.6 was recognized upon finalization of the working capital adjustment during 2023.
On December 1, 2021, we sold the private label dry pet food business to Diamond Pet Foods. The transaction included dry pet food products sold under private label brands, a dedicated manufacturing facility located in Frontenac, Kansas, and approximately 220 employees who supported the private label dry pet food business. The transaction did not include any branded products or our private label wet pet food business. Under our ownership, the business generated net sales of $62.3 in 2022, included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. Final net proceeds from the divestiture were $32.9, net of cash transaction costs. Upon completion of this transaction during 2022, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $17.1.
Trends Affecting our Business
During 2023, we experienced significant input cost inflation and a dynamic macroeconomic environment, which we anticipate will persist into 2024. In addition, the higher costs required us to implement material price increases across our business in 2023, and we anticipate the price elasticity of demand will remain elevated into 2024 as consumers continue to respond to broader inflationary pressures. In response to the inflationary pressures, we have introduced a company-wide transformation initiative to focus on deliberately translating our continuous improvement mindset into sustainable productivity initiatives to grow our profit margins and reinvest in the Company to enable future growth and cost savings.
In addition, we continued to experience disruption in our supply chain network, including labor shortages and the supply of certain ingredients, packaging, and other sourced materials, which has resulted in the continued elevation of transportation

27

and other supply chain costs during 2023. It is possible that more significant disruptions could occur if the COVID-19 pandemic and certain geopolitical events continue to impact markets around the world, including the impact of e-commerce pressures on freight charges and potential shipping delays due to supply and demand imbalances, as well as labor shortages. We also continue to work closely with our customers and external business partners, taking additional actions to ensure safety and business continuity and maximize product availability. We have maintained production at all our facilities and availability of appointments at distribution centers. Furthermore, we have implemented measures to manage order volumes to ensure a consistent supply across our retail partners during periods of high demand. However, to the extent that high demand levels or the current supply chain environment continues to disrupt order fulfillment, we may experience volume loss and elevated penalties.

Although we do not have any operations in Russia or Ukraine, we continue to monitor the environment for any significant escalation or expansion of economic or supply chain disruptions, including broader inflationary costs, as well as regional or global economic recessions. During 2023, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine primarily impacted the price of grains, oils, and fat-based products, which may continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations into 2024.

Overall, broad-based supply chain disruptions and rising levels of inflation, including the impact of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, remain uncertain and ultimately depend on the length and severity of the conflict and the pandemic. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent to which supply chain disruptions and inflation will impact our business; supply chain, including labor availability and attrition; results of operations; financial condition; and liquidity.

Results of Operations
This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended April 30, 2023 and 2022. For the comparisons of the years ended April 30, 2022 and 2021, see the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

------------------------------------------------------ -------------------- ------- ---- ---- -------------------- ------- ----- -
 Year Ended April 30,
 2023 2022 % Increase(Decrease)
Net sales $ 8,529.2 $ 7,998.9 7 %
Gross profit $ 2,801.8 $ 2,700.7 4
% of net sales 32.8 % 33.8 %
Operating income $ 157.5 $ 1,023.8 (85)
% of net sales 1.8 % 12.8 %
Net income (loss):
Net income (loss) $ (91.3) $ 631.7 (114)
Net income (loss) per common share – assuming dilution $ (0.86) $ 5.83 (115)
Adjusted gross profit (A) $ 2,829.6 $ 2,744.6 3
% of net sales 33.2 % 34.3 %
Adjusted operating income (A) $ 1,415.4 $ 1,440.1 (2)
% of net sales 16.6 % 18.0 %
Adjusted income: (A)
Income $ 950.8 $ 962.2 (1)
Earnings per share – assuming dilution $ 8.92 $ 8.88 —

(A)We use non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for a reconciliation to the comparable generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) financial measure.

28

Net Sales

------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------- ------- ---- ------- ------------------- ------- ----- - ----- - -
 Year Ended April 30,
 2023 2022 Increase (Decrease) %
Net sales $ 8,529.2 $ 7,998.9 $ 530.3 7 %

Private label dry pet food divestiture — (62.3) 62.3 1
Natural beverage and grains divestiture — (106.7) 106.7 1
Pet food brands divestiture — (12.2) 12.2 —
Foreign currency exchange 26.3 — 26.3 —
Net sales excluding divestitures and foreign currency exchange (A) $ 8,555.5 $ 7,817.7 $ 737.8 9 %

Amounts may not add due to rounding.
(A)Net sales excluding divestitures and foreign currency exchange is a non-GAAP financial measure used to evaluate performance internally. This measure provides useful information to investors because it enables comparison of results on a year-over-year basis.

Net sales in 2023 increased $530.3, or 7 percent, which includes $181.2 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to divestitures. Net sales excluding divestitures and foreign currency exchange increased $737.8, or 9 percent. Higher net price realization contributed a 14 percentage point increase to net sales, primarily reflecting list price increases for each of our U.S. Retail segments and for International and Away From Home, which was partially offset by a 5 percentage point decrease from volume/mix, primarily driven by the U.S. Retail Coffee segment and manufacturing downtime related to the Jif peanut butter product recall.
Operating Income
The following table presents the components of operating income as a percentage of net sales.

-------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- - ---- ----- -
 Year Ended April 30,
 2023 2022
Gross profit 32.8 % 33.8 %
Selling, distribution, and administrative expenses:
Marketing 3.3 % 3.5 %
Advertising 1.9 2.2
Selling 2.8 2.8
Distribution 3.5 3.6
General and administrative 5.5 5.0
Total selling, distribution, and administrative expenses 17.1 % 17.0 %
Amortization 2.4 2.8

Other intangible assets impairment charge — 1.9
Other special project costs 0.1 0.1
Loss (gain) on divestitures – net 11.9 (0.1)
Other operating expense (income) – net (0.5) (0.7)
Operating income 1.8 % 12.8 %

Amounts may not add due to rounding.

Gross profit increased $101.1, or 4 percent, in 2023, reflecting a favorable net impact of higher net price realization and increased commodity and ingredient, manufacturing, and packaging costs, inclusive of the unfavorable impact related to the Jif peanut butter product recall, partially offset by a lower contribution from volume/mix and the noncomparable impact of the divested natural beverage and grains businesses.

Operating income decreased $866.3, or 85 percent, primarily driven by the $1.0 billion pre-tax loss related to the divestiture of certain pet food brands and a $94.7 increase in selling, distribution, and administrative (“SD&A”) expenses, primarily driven by increased incentive compensation, partially offset by lapping a $150.4 intangible asset impairment charge in the prior year and the increase in gross profit.

29

Our non-GAAP adjustments include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, special project costs, gains and losses on divestitures, the change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses, and other infrequently occurring items that do not directly reflect ongoing operating results, such as unrealized gains and losses on the investment in equity securities. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for additional information. Gross profit excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted gross profit”) increased $85.0, or 3 percent, in 2023, primarily reflecting the exclusion of special project costs, as compared to GAAP gross profit. Adjusted operating income decreased $24.7, or 2 percent, as compared to the prior year, further reflecting the exclusion of the pre-tax loss related to the divestiture of certain pet food brands and the prior year impairment charge.

Interest Expense
Net interest expense decreased $8.9, or 6 percent, in 2023, primarily due to a net favorable impact of the repayment of Senior Notes and the issuance of debt in the prior year. For additional information, refer to Note 7: Debt and Financing Arrangements.
Income Taxes
Income taxes decreased $130.0, or 61 percent, in 2023, as compared to the prior year. The effective income tax rate for 2023 varied from the U.S. statutory income tax rate of 21.0 percent primarily due to an unfavorable permanent impact of the divestiture of certain pet food brands, as well as state income taxes. The effective income tax rate for 2022 varied from the U.S. statutory income tax rate of 21.0 percent primarily due to state income taxes, including an unfavorable one-time deferred tax impact of an internal legal entity simplification. We anticipate a full-year effective income tax rate for 2024 to be approximately 24.2 percent. For additional information, refer to Note 13: Income Taxes.

Special Project Costs
A restructuring program was approved by the Board during 2021, associated with opportunities identified to reduce our overall cost structure, optimize our organizational design, and support our portfolio reshape. This is inclusive of certain restructuring costs associated with the divestitures of the Crisco, Natural Balance, private label dry pet food, and natural beverage and grains businesses. For additional information related to the divestitures, see Note 3: Divestitures.

During 2021, we substantially completed an organizational redesign related to our corporate headquarters and announced plans to close our Suffolk, Virginia facility as a result of a new strategic partnership for the production of our liquid coffee products. During 2022, we completed the transition of production to JDE Peet’s, and expanded the restructuring program to include certain costs associated with the divestitures of the private label dry pet food and natural beverage and grains businesses, as well as the closure of our Ripon, Wisconsin production facility to further optimize operations for our U.S. Retail Consumer Foods business. We completed the closure of the Ripon facility during 2023, as planned, and the remaining restructuring activities were completed as of April 30, 2023. The costs incurred associated with these restructuring activities include other transition and termination costs associated with our cost reduction and margin management initiatives, inclusive of accelerated depreciation, as well as employee-related costs. We have incurred total cumulative restructuring costs of $63.7, of which $11.1 and $28.5 were incurred during 2023 and 2022, respectively. For further information, refer to Note 2: Special Project Costs.
Commodities Overview
The raw materials we use in each of our segments are primarily commodities, agricultural-based products, and packaging materials. The most significant of these materials, based on 2023 annual spend, are green coffee, protein meals, peanuts, grains, and plastic containers. Green coffee, corn, certain meals, oils, and grains are traded on active regulated exchanges, and the price of these commodities fluctuates based on market conditions. Derivative instruments, including futures and options, are used to minimize the impact of price volatility for these commodities.

We source green coffee from more than 20 coffee-producing countries. Its price is subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, global supply and demand, plant disease, investor speculation, and political and economic conditions in the source countries.

We source peanuts, protein meals, and oils and fats mainly from North America. We are one of the largest procurers of peanuts in the U.S. and frequently enter into long-term purchase contracts for various periods of time to mitigate the risk of a shortage of this commodity. The oils we purchase are mainly peanut and soybean. The price of peanuts, protein meals, and oils are driven primarily by weather, which impacts crop sizes and yield, as well as global demand, especially from large importing countries such as China and India. In particular, the supply chain for protein meals, fats, corn products, and green coffee has been significantly disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and therefore, the price for these commodities has

30

increased and may continue to increase due to such disruptions. Furthermore, the price of grains and oils and fat-based products has been impacted by the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine.

We frequently enter into long-term contracts to purchase plastic containers, which are sourced mainly from within the U.S. Plastic resin is made from petrochemical feedstock and natural gas feedstock, and the price can be influenced by feedstock, energy, and crude oil prices as well as global economic and geopolitical conditions.
Excluding the impact of derivative gains and losses, our overall commodity costs in 2023 were higher than in 2022, primarily due to higher costs for green coffee, protein meals, oils and fats, and grains.

Segment Results
We have three reportable segments: U.S. Retail Pet Foods, U.S. Retail Coffee, and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods. The presentation of International and Away From Home represents a combination of all other operating segments that are not individually reportable.

The U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment primarily includes the domestic sales of Meow Mix, Milk-Bone, Pup-Peroni, and Canine Carry Outs branded products; the U.S. Retail Coffee segment primarily includes the domestic sales of Folgers, Dunkin’, and Café Bustelo branded coffee; and the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment primarily includes the domestic sales of Smucker’s and Jif branded products. International and Away From Home includes the sale of products distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels and foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., health care operators, restaurants, lodging, hospitality, offices, K-12, colleges and universities, and convenience stores). Under our ownership, the divested Rachael Ray Nutrish, 9Lives, Kibbles ’n Bits, Nature’s Recipe, and Gravy Train brands generated net sales of $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment.

-------------------------------- -------------------- ------- ---- ------- --------------------- ------- ---- -- -
 Year Ended April 30,
 2023 2022 % Increase (Decrease)
Net sales:
U.S. Retail Pet Foods $ 3,038.1 $ 2,764.3 10 %
U.S. Retail Coffee 2,735.3 2,497.3 10
U.S. Retail Consumer Foods 1,630.9 1,707.2 (4)
International and Away From Home 1,124.9 1,030.1 9
Segment profit:
U.S. Retail Pet Foods $ 494.9 $ 395.9 25 %
U.S. Retail Coffee 737.7 736.7 —
U.S. Retail Consumer Foods 352.6 424.2 (17)
International and Away From Home 143.3 142.0 1
Segment profit margin:
U.S. Retail Pet Foods 16.3 % 14.3 %
U.S. Retail Coffee 27.0 29.5
U.S. Retail Consumer Foods 21.6 24.8
International and Away From Home 12.7 13.8

U.S. Retail Pet Foods

The U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment net sales increased $273.8 in 2023, inclusive of the impact of $74.3 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to the divested private label dry pet food business and the divestiture of certain pet food brands. Excluding the noncomparable impact of the divested businesses, net sales increased $348.1, or 13 percent. Higher net price realization increased net sales by 16 percentage points, primarily reflecting list price increases across the portfolio, partially offset by increased trade spend. The higher net price realization was partially offset by a lower contribution from volume/mix of 3 percentage points, primarily reflecting decreases for cat food and dog food. Segment profit increased $99.0, primarily reflecting a favorable net impact of higher net price realization and increased commodity and ingredient, packaging, and manufacturing costs, partially offset by higher marketing spend.

31

U.S. Retail Coffee

The U.S. Retail Coffee segment net sales increased $238.0 in 2023. Net price realization contributed a 19 percentage point increase to net sales, primarily reflecting list price increases across the portfolio, partially offset by increased trade spend. Unfavorable volume/mix decreased net sales by 9 percentage points driven by mainstream and premium coffee. Segment profit was comparable to the prior year as a favorable net impact of higher net price realization and increased commodity and manufacturing costs was mostly offset by the unfavorable volume/mix.
U.S. Retail Consumer Foods

The U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment net sales decreased $76.3 in 2023, inclusive of the impact of $101.8 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to the divested natural beverage and grains businesses. Excluding the noncomparable impact of the divested businesses, net sales increased $25.5, or 2 percent. Net price realization contributed a
6 percentage point increase to net sales, primarily driven by list price increases for the Smucker’s brand, partially offset by declines for Jif peanut butter, inclusive of the unfavorable impact of customer returns and fees related to the Jif peanut butter product recall. Volume/mix decreased net sales by 4 percentage points, primarily driven by downtime related to the recall, partially offset by an increase for Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches. Segment profit decreased $71.6, primarily reflecting higher commodity and ingredient, manufacturing, and packaging costs, inclusive of costs related to the recall, and the impact of the noncomparable segment profit in the prior year related to the divested natural beverage and grains businesses, partially offset by higher net pricing and favorable volume/mix.
International and Away From Home

International and Away From Home net sales increased $94.8 in 2023, including $26.3 of unfavorable foreign currency exchange and the noncomparable impact of $5.1 of net sales in the prior year primarily related to the divested natural beverage and grains businesses. Excluding the noncomparable impact of foreign currency exchange and the divested businesses, net sales increased $126.2, or 12 percent, reflecting a 19 percent and 5 percent increase for the Away From Home and International operating segments, respectively. Net price realization contributed a 13 percentage point increase to net sales for the combined businesses, primarily driven by increases for coffee products, baking mixes and ingredients, and frozen handheld products, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of customer returns and fees related to the Jif peanut butter product recall. Segment profit increased $1.3, primarily reflecting a favorable net impact of higher net price realization and increased commodity costs, as well as decreased marketing spend, partially offset by the unfavorable foreign currency exchange.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity
Our principal source of funds is cash generated from operations, supplemented by borrowings against our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility. Further benefiting from proceeds from divestitures, total cash and cash equivalents increased to $655.8 at April 30, 2023, compared to $169.9 at April 30, 2022.

The following table presents selected cash flow information.

-------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
 Year Ended April 30,
 2023 2022
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities (A) $ 1,194.4 $ 1,136.3
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities (A) 256.2 (355.5)
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities (964.6) (944.5)

Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities (A) $ 1,194.4 $ 1,136.3
Additions to property, plant, and equipment (A) (477.4) (417.5)
Free cash flow (B) $ 717.0 $ 718.8

(A)Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities and net cash provided by (used for) investing activities differ immaterially from the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year ended April 30, 2023, as previously furnished within the Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 6, 2023, reflecting the reclassification of certain items, inclusive of additions to property, plant, and equipment. Free cash flow and the net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents for the year ended April 30, 2023, were not impacted by the reclassifications and remain unchanged.

32

(B)Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure used by management to evaluate the amount of cash available for debt repayment, dividend distribution, acquisition opportunities, share repurchases, and other corporate purposes.
The $58.1 increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2023 was primarily driven by lower working capital requirements in 2023, partially offset by the $70.0 contribution to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the first quarter of 2023. The cash required to fund working capital decreased compared to the prior year primarily related to insurance proceeds related to the Jif peanut butter product recall that were received in 2023, a decrease in inventory, and changes in accrued incentive compensation, which were partially offset by a decrease in cash from trade receivables due to timing of sales and payments.
Cash provided by investing activities in 2023 consisted primarily of net proceeds received from the sale of certain pet food brands of $684.7 and a decrease of $37.6 in our derivative cash margin account balances. These increases were partially offset by $477.4 in capital expenditures, primarily driven by investments in Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches to support the new manufacturing and distribution facilities in McCalla, Alabama and capacity expansion in Longmont, Colorado, as well as plant maintenance across our facilities. Cash used for investing activities in 2022 consisted primarily of $417.5 in capital expenditures, primarily driven by investments in Smucker's Uncrustables frozen sandwiches to support the new manufacturing and distribution facilities, and an increase of $65.4 in our derivative cash margin account balances. These decreases in 2022 were partially offset by net proceeds received from the divested private label dry pet food and natural beverage and grains businesses of $130.0.
Cash used for financing activities in 2023 consisted primarily of dividend payments of $430.2, purchase of treasury shares of $367.5, and a net decrease in short-term borrowings of $185.9. Cash used for financing activities in 2022 consisted primarily of long-term debt repayments of $1,157.0, dividend payments of $418.1, and purchase of treasury shares of $270.4, partially offset by $797.6 in long-term debt proceeds and a net increase in short-term borrowings of $97.6.
Supplier Financing Program
As part of ongoing efforts to maximize working capital, we work with our suppliers to optimize our terms and conditions, which includes the extension of payment terms. Payment terms with our suppliers, which we deem to be commercially reasonable, range from 0 to 180 days. We have an agreement with a third-party administrator to provide an accounts payable tracking system and facilitate a supplier financing program, which allows participating suppliers the ability to monitor and voluntarily elect to sell our payment obligations to a designated third-party financial institution. Participating suppliers can sell one or more of our payment obligations at their sole discretion, and our rights and obligations to our suppliers are not impacted. We have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to enter into these agreements. Our rights and obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not impacted by our suppliers’ decisions to sell amounts under these arrangements. As of April 30, 2023 and 2022, $414.2 and $314.3 of our outstanding payment obligations, respectively, were elected and sold to a financial institution by participating suppliers. During 2023 and 2022, we paid $1,495.2 and $1,042.9, respectively, to a financial institution for payment obligations that were settled through the supplier financing program.
Contingencies
We, like other food manufacturers, are from time to time subject to various administrative, regulatory, and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We are currently a defendant in a variety of such legal proceedings, including certain lawsuits related to the alleged price-fixing of shelf stable tuna products prior to 2011 by a business previously owned by, but divested prior to our acquisition of, Big Heart, the significant majority of which were settled and paid during 2019 and 2020. While we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate results of these proceedings or potential settlements associated with these or other matters, we have accrued losses for certain contingent liabilities that we have determined are probable and reasonably estimable at April 30, 2023. Based on the information known to date, with the exception of the matters discussed below, we do not believe the final outcome of these proceedings would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

In addition to the legal proceedings discussed above, we are defendants in a series of putative class action lawsuits that were transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The plaintiffs assert claims arising under various state laws for false advertising, consumer protection, deceptive and unfair trade practices, and similar statutes. Their claims are premised on allegations that we have misrepresented the number of servings that can be made from various canisters of Folgers coffee on the packaging for those products.

The outcome and the financial impact of these cases, if any, cannot be predicted at this time. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for these matters as of April 30, 2023, and the likelihood of loss is not considered probable or

33

estimable. However, if we are required to pay significant damages, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted, and sales of those products could suffer not only in these locations but elsewhere. For additional information, see Note 15: Contingencies.
Product Recall
In May 2022, we initiated a voluntary recall of select Jif peanut butter products produced at our Lexington, Kentucky facility and sold primarily in the U.S., due to potential salmonella contamination. At that time, we also suspended the manufacturing of Jif peanut butter products at the Lexington facility and temporarily paused shipments from our Memphis, Tennessee facility to eliminate confusion while customers cleared their shelves of potentially impacted products manufactured at the Lexington facility. No other products produced at our other facilities were affected by the recall. In June 2022, we resumed manufacturing Jif peanut butter products at our Lexington facility, as well as shipping from our Memphis facility. We partnered with retailers to restock Jif peanut butter products during the first quarter of 2023, and as of April 30, 2023, we have returned to normal levels. To date, we have recognized total direct costs associated with the recall of approximately $120.0, net of insurance recoveries, related to customer returns, fees, unsaleable inventory, and other product recall-related costs, primarily within our U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment. We expect costs associated with the recall to be minimal in 2024.

Further, the FDA issued a Warning Letter on January 24, 2023, following an inspection of our Lexington facility completed in June 2022 in connection with the Jif voluntary recall, identifying concerns regarding certain practices and controls at the facility. We have responded to the Warning Letter with a detailed explanation of our food safety plan and extensive verification activities to prevent contamination in Jif peanut butter products. In addition, we have worked diligently to further strengthen our already stringent quality processes, including doubling our finished product testing and tripling our environmental testing to verify the efficacy of our actions. The FDA or other agencies may nonetheless conclude that certain practices or controls were not in compliance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or other laws. Any potential regulatory action based on such an agency conclusion could result in the imposition of injunctive terms and monetary payments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, brand, results of operations, and financial performance, as well as affect ongoing consumer litigation associated with the voluntary recall of Jif peanut butter products. The outcome and financial impact of the ongoing consumer litigation or any potential regulatory action associated with the Jif voluntary recall cannot be predicted at this time. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for these matters as of April 30, 2023, and the likelihood of loss is not considered probable or estimable.
Capital Resources
The following table presents our capital structure.

--------------------- --------- -------- ---- ------- - --------
 April 30,
 2023 2022

Short-term borrowings $ — $ 180.0
Long-term debt 4,314.2 4,310.6
Total debt $ 4,314.2 $ 4,490.6
Shareholders’ equity 7,290.8 8,140.1
Total capital $ 11,605.0 $ 12,630.7

We have available a $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of 11 banks that matures in August 2026. Additionally, we participate in a commercial paper program under which we can issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper not to exceed $2.0 billion at any time. The commercial paper program is backed by our revolving credit facility and reduces what we can borrow under the revolving credit facility by the amount of commercial paper outstanding. Commercial paper is used as a continuing source of short-term financing for general corporate purposes. As of April 30, 2023, we did not have a balance outstanding under the commercial paper program.
We are in compliance with all our debt covenants as of April 30, 2023, and expect to be for the next 12 months. For additional information on our long-term debt, sources of liquidity, and debt covenants, see Note 7: Debt and Financing Arrangements.
Dividend payments were $430.2 and $418.1 in 2023 and 2022, respectively, and quarterly dividends declared per share were $4.08 and $3.96 in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board and depends on various factors, such as our net income, financial condition, cash requirements, future events, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.

34

During the fourth quarter of 2023, we repurchased approximately 2.4 million common shares for $358.0 pursuant to the authorizations of the Board. Under the repurchase plan, a total of approximately 3.5 million common shares remain available for repurchase as of April 30, 2023. In accordance with the Inflation Reduction Act, a one percent excise tax was applied to share repurchases after December 31, 2022. As a result, an excise tax of $3.6 was accrued on the repurchased shares during 2023, and included within additional capital in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. A total of 2.0 million common shares were repurchased for $262.5 during 2022 under authorizations by the Board, and no excise tax was accrued on the repurchased shares. All other share repurchases during 2023 and 2022 consisted of shares repurchased from stock plan recipients in lieu of cash payments.

On March 2, 2023, we also entered into a share repurchase plan (the “10b5-1 Plan”) established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act in connection with the remaining common shares authorized for repurchase by the Board. In accordance with the 10b5-1 Plan, our designated broker has the authority to repurchase approximately 2.4 million commons shares, which commenced on the consummation of the sale of certain pet food brands on April 28, 2023, and will expire 45 calendar days after the closure of the transaction, which is in the first quarter of 2024, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the 10b5-1 Plan. Subsequent to April 30, 2023, we repurchased approximately 2.4 million common shares for $362.8 under this 10b5-1 Plan and approximately 1.1 million common shares remain available for repurchase. An excise tax of $3.6 was also accrued on the repurchased shares during the first quarter of 2024.
In November 2021, we announced plans to invest $1.1 billion to build a new manufacturing facility and distribution center in McCalla, Alabama dedicated to production of Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches. Construction of this facility began in 2022, with production expected to begin in calendar year 2025. The project demonstrates our commitment to meet increasing demand for this highly successful product and deliver on our strategy to focus on brands with the most significant growth opportunities. Construction of the facility and production will occur in three phases over multiple years and will result in the creation of up to 750 jobs. Financial investments and job creation will align with each of the three phases.
The following table presents certain cash requirements related to 2024 investing and financing activities based on our current expectations. Although no principal payments are required on our debt obligations in 2024, we may utilize a portion of our cash for debt repayment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------- -----
 Projection Year Ending April 30, 2024

Dividend payments – based on current rates and common shares outstanding $ 425.9
Capital expenditures 565.0
Interest payments 138.9

Absent any material acquisitions or other significant investments, we believe that cash on hand, combined with cash provided by operations, borrowings available under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, and access to capital markets, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months, including the payment of quarterly dividends, principal and interest payments on debt outstanding, and capital expenditures. However, as a result of the current macroeconomic environment, we may experience an increase in the cost or the difficulty to obtain debt or equity financing, or to refinance our debt in the future. We continue to evaluate these risks, which could affect our financial condition or our ability to fund operations or future investment opportunities.
As of April 30, 2023, total cash and cash equivalents of $35.8 was held by our foreign subsidiaries, primarily in Canada. We did not repatriate foreign cash to the U.S. during 2023.
Material Cash Requirements
The following table summarizes our material cash requirements by fiscal year at April 30, 2023.

------------------------------ ------- ------- ---- ------- --------- ------- --------- -------------- ------- ------- ----- - -------
 Total 2024 2025-2026 2027-2028 2029 andbeyond
Long-term debt obligations (A) $ 4,350.0 $ — $ 1,000.0 $ 500.0 $ 2,850.0
Interest payments (B) 1,682.3 147.2 259.3 224.3 1,051.5
Purchase obligations (C) 2,146.2 1,774.3 228.6 93.9 49.4

Total $ 8,178.5 $ 1,921.5 $ 1,487.9 $ 818.2 $ 3,950.9

(A)Long-term debt obligations excludes the impact of offering discounts, make-whole payments, and debt issuance costs.

35

(B)Interest payments consists of the interest payments for our fixed-rate Senior Notes.
(C)Purchase obligations includes agreements that are enforceable and legally bind us to purchase goods or services, which primarily consist of obligations related to normal, ongoing purchase obligations in which we have guaranteed payment to ensure availability of raw materials. We expect to receive consideration for these purchase obligations in the form of materials and services. These purchase obligations do not represent all future purchases expected but represent only those items for which we are contractually obligated. Amounts included in the table above represent our current best estimate of payments due. Actual cash payments may vary due to the variable pricing components of certain purchase obligations.
Our other cash requirements at April 30, 2023, primarily included operating and finance lease obligations, which consist of the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating and finance leases. As of April 30, 2023, we had total undiscounted minimum lease payments of $120.9 and $3.5 related to our operating and finance leases, respectively. For additional information, see Note 11: Leases.
In addition, we have other liabilities which consisted primarily of projected commitments associated with our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as disclosed in Note 8: Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits. The total liability for our unrecognized tax benefits and tax-related net interest at April 30, 2023, was $6.3 under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, Income Taxes; however, we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. For additional information, see Note 13: Income Taxes.
As of April 30, 2023, we do not have material off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as variable interest entities. Transactions with related parties are in the ordinary course of business and are not material to our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
We use non-GAAP financial measures including: net sales excluding divestitures and foreign currency exchange, adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating income, adjusted income, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash flow, as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. We believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing these performance measures. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are used by management in preparation of the annual budget and for the monthly analyses of our operating results. The Board also utilizes certain non-GAAP financial measures as components for measuring performance for incentive compensation purposes.

Non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items affecting comparability that can significantly affect the year-over-year assessment of operating results, which include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, special project costs, gains and losses on divestitures, the change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses, and other infrequently occurring items that do not directly reflect ongoing operating results, such as unrealized gains and losses on the investment in equity securities. Income taxes, as adjusted is calculated using an adjusted effective income tax rate that is applied to adjusted income before income taxes and reflects the exclusion of the previously discussed items, as well as any adjustments for one-time tax related activities, when they occur. While this adjusted effective income tax rate does not generally differ materially from our GAAP effective income tax rate, certain exclusions from non-GAAP results, such as the unfavorable permanent impact of the divestiture of certain pet food brands during 2023, and the one-time deferred state tax impact of the internal legal entity simplification during 2022, can significantly impact our adjusted effective income tax rate.

These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures supplements other metrics we use to internally evaluate our business and facilitate the comparison of past and present operations and liquidity. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies and may exclude certain nondiscretionary expenses and cash payments.
The following table reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measure. See page 29 for a reconciliation of net sales adjusted for certain noncomparable items to the comparable GAAP financial measure.

---------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
 Year Ended April 30,
 2023 2022
Gross profit reconciliation:
Gross profit $ 2,801.8 $ 2,700.7
Change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses 21.4 23.4
Cost of products sold – special project costs (A) 6.4 20.5
Adjusted gross profit $ 2,829.6 $ 2,744.6
% of net sales 33.2 % 34.3 %
Operating income reconciliation:
Operating income $ 157.5 $ 1,023.8
Amortization 206.9 223.6

Other intangible assets impairment charge — 150.4
Loss (gain) on divestitures – net 1,018.5 (9.6)
Change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses 21.4 23.4
Cost of products sold – special project costs (A) 6.4 20.5
Other special project costs (A) 4.7 8.0
Adjusted operating income $ 1,415.4 $ 1,440.1
% of net sales 16.6 % 18.0 %
Net income (loss) reconciliation:
Net income (loss) $ (91.3) $ 631.7
Income tax expense 82.1 212.1
Amortization 206.9 223.6

Other intangible assets impairment charge — 150.4
Loss (gain) on divestitures – net 1,018.5 (9.6)
Change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses 21.4 23.4
Cost of products sold – special project costs (A) 6.4 20.5
Other special project costs (A) 4.7 8.0
Other infrequently occurring items:
Unrealized loss (gain) on investment in equity securities (B) 3.8 —
Adjusted income before income taxes $ 1,252.5 $ 1,260.1
Income taxes, as adjusted 301.7 297.9
Adjusted income $ 950.8 $ 962.2
Weighted-average shares – assuming dilution(C) 106.6 108.4
Adjusted earnings per share – assuming dilution(C) $ 8.92 $ 8.88

Free cash flow reconciliation:
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities $ 1,194.4 $ 1,136.3
Additions to property, plant, and equipment (477.4) (417.5)
Free cash flow $ 717.0 $ 718.8

(A)    Special project costs include certain restructuring costs, which are recognized in cost of products sold and other special project costs. For more information, see Note 2: Special Project Costs and Note 4: Reportable Segments.
(B)    Unrealized loss (gain) on investment in equity securities includes unrealized gains and losses on the change in fair value on our investment in Post common stock. For more information, see Note 3: Divestitures and Note 10: Other Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.
(C)    Adjusted earnings per common share – assuming dilution for 2023 and 2022 was computed using the treasury stock method. Further, in 2023, the weighted-average shares – assuming dilution differed from our GAAP weighted-average common shares outstanding – assuming dilution as a result of the anti-dilutive effect of our stock-based awards, which were excluded from the computation of net loss per share – assuming dilution. For more information see Earnings Per Share in Note 1: Accounting Policies and Note 5: Earnings Per Share.

36

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that in certain circumstances affect amounts reported in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In preparing these financial statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality. We do not believe there is a great likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions related to the accounting policies described below. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates.
Trade Marketing and Merchandising Programs: In order to support our products, various promotional activities are conducted through retailers, distributors, or directly with consumers, including in-store display and product placement programs, price discounts, coupons, and other similar activities. The costs of these programs are classified as a reduction of sales. We regularly review and revise, when we deem necessary, estimates of costs for these promotional programs based on estimates of what will be redeemed by retailers, distributors, or consumers. These estimates are made using various techniques, including historical data on performance of similar promotional programs. Differences between estimated expenditures and actual performance are recognized as a change in estimate in a subsequent period. During 2023, 2022, and 2021, subsequent period adjustments were less than 3 percent of both consolidated pre-tax adjusted income and cash provided by operating activities.

Income Taxes: We account for income taxes using the liability method. In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to uncertainties related to tax filing positions and periodically assess the technical merits of these tax positions for all tax years that remain subject to examination, based upon the latest information available. We recognize a tax benefit when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination, based on its technical merits. The tax position is then measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.

We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, we determine that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of such assets will not be realized. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes in tax laws, statutory tax rates, and projected future taxable income levels. Changes in estimated realization of deferred tax assets would result in an adjustment to income in the period in which that determination is made, unless such changes are determined to be an adjustment to goodwill within the allowable measurement period under the acquisition method of accounting.
The future tax benefit arising from the net deductible temporary differences and tax carryforwards was $196.8 and $193.4 at April 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and results of operations. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance has been provided.
As of April 30, 2023, a portion of our undistributed foreign earnings, primarily in Canada, is not considered permanently reinvested, and an immaterial deferred tax liability has been recognized accordingly. Further, we have not repatriated foreign cash to the U.S during 2023. For additional information, see Note 13: Income Taxes.
Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets: A significant portion of our assets is composed of goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually on
February 1, and more often if indicators of impairment exist. At April 30, 2023, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $9.6 billion, compared to total assets of $15.0 billion and total shareholders’ equity of $7.3 billion. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired, and this would result in a noncash impairment charge to earnings. Any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, or declining financial performance in comparison to projected results.
To test for goodwill impairment, we estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units using both a discounted cash flow valuation technique and a market-based approach. The impairment test incorporates estimates of future cash flows; allocations of certain assets, liabilities, and cash flows among reporting units; future growth rates; terminal value amounts;

37

and the applicable weighted-average cost of capital used to discount those estimated cash flows. The estimates and projections used in the calculation of fair value are consistent with our current and long-range plans, including anticipated changes in market conditions, industry trends, growth rates, and planned capital expenditures. Changes in forecasted operations and other estimates and assumptions could impact the assessment of impairment in the future.
As a result of the divestiture of certain pet food brands on April 28, 2023, we disposed of $790.3 of goodwill, primarily within the Pet Foods reporting unit. The amount of goodwill allocated to the disposal group was determined based on a relative fair value analysis, utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation technique, which required management to make certain estimates and assumptions utilizing Level 3 inputs, consistent with our approach for an impairment test.
At April 30, 2023, goodwill totaled $5.2 billion. Goodwill is substantially concentrated within the U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Pet Foods, and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments. During 2023, no goodwill impairment was recognized as a result of the evaluations performed throughout the year, inclusive of an assessment performed following the divestiture. The estimated fair value of each of our reporting units for which there is a goodwill balance was substantially in excess of its carrying value as of the annual test date, with the exception of the Pet Foods reporting unit, for which its fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 7 percent. However, subsequent to the annual test, the reporting units impacted by the divestiture were assessed for impairment as of April 30, 2023, and we concluded there were no indicators of impairment, as the estimated fair values were in excess of the carrying values for all reporting units. For additional information, see Note 3: Divestitures and Note 6: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
Other indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting entirely of trademarks, are also tested for impairment at least annually and more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying values may be below their fair values. To test these assets for impairment, we estimate the fair value of each asset based on a discounted cash flow model using various inputs, including projected revenues, an assumed royalty rate, and a discount rate. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could impact the assessment of impairment in the future.
At April 30, 2023, other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $2.6 billion. Trademarks that represent our leading brands comprise approximately 95 percent of the total carrying value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. As of April 30, 2023, the estimated fair value was substantially in excess of the carrying value for the majority of these leading brand trademarks, and in all instances, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value by greater than 10 percent.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans: To determine the ultimate obligation under our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, we must estimate the future cost of benefits and attribute that cost to the time period during which each covered employee works. Various actuarial assumptions must be made in order to predict and measure costs and obligations many years prior to the settlement date, the most significant being the interest rates used to discount the obligations of the plans, the long-term rates of return on the plans’ assets, and mortality assumptions. We, along with third-party actuaries and investment managers, review all of these assumptions on an ongoing basis to ensure that the most reasonable information available is being considered.
We employ a total return on investment approach for the defined benefit pension plans’ assets. A mix of equity, fixed-income, and alternative investments is used to maximize the long-term rate of return on assets for the level of risk. In determining the expected long-term rate of return on the defined benefit pension plans’ assets, we consider the historical rates of return, the nature of investments, the asset allocation, and expectations of future investment strategies. The actual rate of return was a loss of 2.3 percent and a loss of 4.6 percent for the years ended April 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, which excludes administrative and investment expenses.
We utilize a spot rate methodology for the estimation of service and interest cost for our plans by applying specific spot rates along the yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows to provide a better estimate of service and interest costs. For 2024 expense recognition, we will use weighted-average discount rates for the U.S. defined benefit pension plans of 5.19 percent to determine benefit obligation, 5.38 percent to determine service cost, and 5.08 percent to determine interest cost. As of April 30, 2023, a 50 basis-point decrease in the discount rate assumption would increase the 2024 net periodic benefit cost by approximately $0.4, and the benefit obligation would increase by approximately $18.4. In addition, we anticipate using an expected rate of return on plan assets of 5.35 percent for the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. A 50 basis-point decrease in the expected rate of return on plan assets assumption would increase the 2024 net periodic benefit cost by approximately $1.5.

38

For the Canadian defined benefit pension plans, we will use weighted-average discount rates of 4.59 percent to determine benefit obligation and 4.65 percent to determine interest cost for 2024 expense recognition. In addition, we anticipate using an expected rate of return on plan assets of 3.30 percent for the Canadian defined pension plans. A change in the assumptions used for the Canadian defined benefit pension plans would not have a material impact on the net periodic benefit cost and benefit obligation. For additional information, see Note 8: Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements may include statements concerning our current expectations, estimates, assumptions, and beliefs concerning future events, conditions, plans, and strategies that are not historical fact. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “will,” “plan,” and similar phrases.

Federal securities laws provide a safe harbor for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information. We are providing this cautionary statement in connection with the safe harbor provisions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, as such statements are by nature subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are outside of our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results and experience. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the following:

•the effect of the sale of certain pet food brands on our ability to retain key personnel and to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, and other business partners, and any impact to the value of our investment in Post common stock or our ability to dispose of some or all of such securities at favorable market prices;
•disruptions or inefficiencies in our operations or supply chain, including any impact caused by product recalls (including the Jif peanut butter product recall), political instability, terrorism, armed hostilities (including the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine), extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemics (including COVID-19), work stoppages or labor shortages, or other calamities;
•risks related to the availability, and cost inflation in, supply chain inputs, including labor, raw materials, commodities, packaging, and transportation;
•the impact of food security concerns involving either our products or our competitors’ products, including changes in consumer preference, consumer litigation, actions by the FDA or other agencies, and product recalls;
•risks associated with derivative and purchasing strategies we employ to manage commodity pricing and interest rate risks;
•the availability of reliable transportation on acceptable terms;
•our ability to achieve cost savings related to our restructuring and cost management programs in the amounts and within the time frames currently anticipated;
•our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to continue operating under our capital deployment model, including capital expenditures, debt repayment, dividend payments, and share repurchases;
•our ability to implement and realize the full benefit of price changes, and the impact of the timing of the price changes to profits and cash flow in a particular period;
•the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and strategies intended to promote growth in our business, including product innovation;
•general competitive activity in the market, including competitors’ pricing practices and promotional spending levels;
•our ability to attract and retain key talent;
•the concentration of certain of our businesses with key customers and suppliers, including single-source suppliers of certain key raw materials and finished goods, and our ability to manage and maintain key relationships;
•impairments in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets or changes in the useful lives of other intangible assets or other long-lived assets;
•the impact of new or changes to existing governmental laws and regulations and their application;
•the outcome of tax examinations, changes in tax laws, and other tax matters;
•a disruption, failure, or security breach of our or our suppliers’ information technology systems, including ransomware attacks;

39

•foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; and
•risks related to other factors described under “Risk Factors” in other reports and statements we have filed with the SEC.
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances subsequent to the filing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[refer to Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[refer to Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[see Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[see Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[see Note 8]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105 Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[discussed in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20