================================================================================
CIK: 0000818479
Company Name: DENTSPLY SIRONA Inc
Filing Date: 2023-03-01
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 14:00:48
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand the Company’s operations and business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements that involve certain risks and uncertainties. See Part I, Item 1, “Business - Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks” in the beginning of this Form 10-K. The MD&A includes the following sections:

•Business - a general description of Dentsply Sirona’s business and how performance is measured;
•Results of Operations - an analysis of the Company’s consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021;
•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - a discussion of accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates; and
•Liquidity and Capital Resources - an analysis of cash flows; debt and other obligations; off-balance sheet arrangements; and aggregate contractual obligations.

2022 Operational Highlights

For the year ended December 31, 2022,

•Net sales decreased 7.3% compared to the prior year. On an organic basis (a Non-GAAP measure as defined under the heading "Key Performance Measurements" below) net sales decreased 0.5% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to prior year. Net sales were negatively impacted by approximately 6.8% due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar over the prior year period.

•Net loss was $950 million as compared to net income of $411 million for the prior year primarily due to an goodwill impairment charge of $1,187 million. Diluted loss per share was $4.41 per share compared to net income per share of $1.87 in the prior year.

•Cash from operations was $517 million, as compared to $657 million in the prior year.

Material Weaknesses in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Identified During the Recent Investigation

As previously disclosed, management determined there were material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, which have not been remediated as of December 31, 2022. For more information about the identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and the Company’s remedial actions, please see Part II, Item 8 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Part II, Item 9A Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K.

Company Profile

DENTSPLY SIRONA Inc. (“Dentsply Sirona” or the “Company”), is the world’s largest manufacturer of professional dental products and technologies, with a 136-year history of innovation and service to the dental industry and patients worldwide. Dentsply Sirona develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive solutions offering including dental equipment and dental consumable products under a strong portfolio of world class brands. The Company also manufactures and markets healthcare consumable products. Dentsply Sirona’s products provide innovative, high-quality and effective solutions to advance patient care and deliver better, safer and faster dentistry. Dentsply Sirona’s worldwide headquarters is located in Charlotte, North Carolina. The Company’s shares of common stock are listed in the U.S. on Nasdaq under the symbol XRAY.

BUSINESS

The Company operates in two operating segments, Technologies & Equipment and Consumables.

39

The Technologies & Equipment segment is responsible for the design, manufacture, sales and distribution of products including dental implants, CAD/CAM systems, orthodontic aligner products, imaging systems, treatment centers, instruments, as well as certain healthcare device products, primarily catheters.

The Consumables segment is responsible for the design, manufacture, sales and distribution of dental consumable products which include categories of preventive, restorative, endodontic, and dental laboratory application.

The impacts of COVID-19 and the Company’s response

The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant volatility and uncertainty in the overall markets particularly in the year that followed the initial outbreak late in 2019, leading to changes in consumer behavior, government restrictions on individuals and businesses, and significant disruption to supply chains in several sectors, including dental equipment and medical supplies.

The Company’s 2020 results were materially impacted by this disruption at the outset of the pandemic, including the closure or reduced operations of dental practices. During 2021, demand for the Company’s products largely recovered, although the Company continued to be impacted by shortages and higher prices for certain raw materials, as well as increasing distribution and labor costs.

The Company's financial results and operations continue to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the pressure it has placed on inflation, supply chains, distribution networks and consumer behavior. Key impacts for the year ended December 31, 2022 are as follows:

•As further described in the "Results of Operations" discussion below, the Company continues to experience supply chain challenges resulting from the pandemic including increased lead times, limited availability of certain components, raw material price increases, and higher procurement and shipping costs. As a result of supply chain constraints, the Company has worked during the course of the year to reduce an elevated backlog primarily in connection with orders on hand for imaging equipment which it is unable to fill due to continued shortages of electronic components. The Company is continuing to take steps to mitigate the impact of these trends, including seeking alternative supplier sources for key raw materials.

•Sales continue to be impacted in certain geographic areas by public response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Towards the end of the first quarter of 2022, authorities in China started to periodically re-impose severe restrictions on individual and business activities in response to the resurgence of COVID-19 infections from variants of the virus, resulting in a loss of sales due to distribution constraints and lower demand from reduced patient traffic locally. Primarily as a result of these factors, sales in China declined by $93 million during 2022 relative to 2021. Adverse trends in certain regions could persist if these restrictions are renewed as a result of additional outbreaks. While most government authorities have not re-imposed restrictions with significant impacts, it continues to be unclear when the remaining constraints will be lifted, and to what degree future variants of the virus or renewed restrictions in other markets may impact short-term demand for the Company's products more broadly.

The impact of developments in Ukraine

In February 2022, as a result of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, economic sanctions were imposed by the U.S., the EU, and certain other countries on Russian financial institutions and businesses. Due to the medical nature of our products, the current sanctions have not materially restricted the Company's ability to continue selling many of our products to customers located in Russia. The Company also sources certain raw materials and components from Russia and Ukraine, and to minimize the adverse impacts from disrupted supply chains related to these items, the Company has purchased sufficient quantities for the near term, and are in process of identifying alternate sources for the longer term. The Company’s operations in Ukraine consist primarily of R&D activities, which continue uninterrupted from other locations in order to focus on the safety of employees. Overall, the Company's operations in Russia and Ukraine have not been materially impacted by the conflict, and consequently, the Company has not recorded any allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory reserves, or asset impairments during the year ended December 31, 2022 as a result of these developments.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, net sales in Russia and Ukraine were approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales, and net assets in these countries were $83 million. These net assets include $71 million of cash and cash equivalents held within Russia as of December 31, 2022. Due to currency control measures imposed by the Russian government which include restrictions on the ability of companies to repatriate or otherwise remit cash from their Russian-based operations to locations outside of Russia, we may be limited in our ability to transfer this cash balance out of Russia without incurring substantial costs, if at all.

40

While neither Russia nor Ukraine constitutes a material portion of our business, a significant escalation or expansion of economic disruption or the conflict's current scope could result in a loss of sales, disrupt our supply chain, broaden inflationary costs, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional discussion of associated risks, refer to Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" - Risks Related to Our International Operations.

The impact of global economic conditions

In addition to the residual impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine, markets in several regions particularly in Europe have experienced varying degrees of recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. In addition, changes in economic conditions, supply chain constraints, logistics challenges, labor shortages, and the conflict in Ukraine have all contributed to a period of higher inflation across the industry and the regions in which the Company operates.

As a result, the Company has experienced higher prices for certain of our raw materials, particularly for electronic components which have in some cases required incremental procurement costs such as brokers' fees during the year, and a consequently negative impact to margins. The Company has also experienced delays in converting our backlog due to continued supply chain disruptions, which has negatively impacted both revenues and margins. Although the Company has experienced recent improvement in its supply chain, we expect a continuation of these trends including disruptions and inflationary pressure on the cost of both raw material and wages, the effect of which will depend on the Company’s ability to successfully mitigate and offset the related impacts.

The deterioration in macroeconomic conditions has also negatively affected demand for the Company's products and may continue to do so into the future. Specifically, the increase in interest rates during the year has put pressure on the ability of our customers to obtain financing for equipment purchases which affects volumes for these products. Additionally, the recessionary environment in general particularly for certain regions such as southern Europe has depressed demand for elective procedures including sales of implants and aligner solutions.

 In anticipation of a continued inflationary trend and potentially deteriorating macroeconomic environment, the Company has attempted to mitigate these pressures through the following actions:

•Driving strategic procurement initiatives to leverage alternative sources of raw materials and transportation;
•Implementing cost-containment measures, as well as intensifying continuous improvement and restructuring programs in our manufacturing and distribution facilities; and
•Optimizing our customer management and implementing strategic investments in our commercial sales organization in key markets, particularly the U.S.

As explained further in the Results of Operations section below, the Company has partly offset these elevated costs in certain areas of the business with price increases during the year. Should the higher inflationary environment continue, the Company may be likely to continue to be unable to raise the prices of our products and services sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Key Performance Measurements

The principal measurements used by the Company in evaluating its business performance are: (1) organic sales by segment and geographic region; and (2) adjusted operating income and margins of each reportable segment, which excludes the impacts of purchase accounting, corporate expenses, and certain other items to enhance the comparability of results period to period.

The Company defines "organic sales" as the reported net sales adjusted for: (1) net sales from acquired and divested businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition or divestiture; (2) net sales attributable to discontinued product lines in both the current and prior year periods; and (3) the impact of foreign currency changes, which is calculated by translating current period net sales using the comparable prior period’s currency exchange rates.

The "organic sales" measure is not calculated in accordance with US GAAP; therefore, this item represents a Non-GAAP measure. This Non-GAAP measure may differ from those used by other companies and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with US GAAP. Organic sales is an important internal measure for the Company, and its senior management who receive a monthly analysis of operating results that includes organic sales. The performance of the Company is measured on this metric along with other performance metrics.

41

The Company discloses organic sales to allow investors to evaluate the performance of the Company’s operations exclusive of the items listed above that impact the comparability of results from period to period and may not be indicative of past or future performance of the normal operations of the Company. The Company believes that this supplemental information is helpful in understanding underlying net sales trends.

Business Drivers

The primary drivers of organic sales include macroeconomic factors, global dental industry demand, innovation and new product launches by the Company, as well as continued investments in sales and marketing resources to drive demand creation, including clinical education. Management believes that the Company’s ability to execute its strategies should allow it to grow faster than the underlying dental industry over time. On a short-term basis, sudden changes in the macroeconomic environment, supply chain challenges, or changes in distributor inventory levels can and have impacted the Company's sales. Demand can also fluctuate based on the timing of dental tradeshows where promotions are offered, major new product introductions, and variability in dental patient traffic, which can be exacerbated by seasonal or severe weather patterns, or other demographic disruptions such as the recent COVID-19 pandemic.

The Company has a focus on maximizing operational excellence on a global basis. The Company has expanded the use of technology as well as process improvement initiatives to enhance global efficiency. In addition, management continues to evaluate the worldwide consolidation and simplification of operations and functions to further reduce costs. While the Company continues consolidation initiatives which can have an adverse impact on reported results in the short term, the Company expects that the continued benefits from these global efficiency efforts will optimize cost structure. Meanwhile, the Company intends to continue pursuing opportunities to expand the Company’s product offerings, technologies, and sales and service infrastructure through partnerships. Although the professional dental market has experienced consolidation, it remains fragmented. Management believes that there will continue to be adequate opportunities to participate as a consolidator in the industry for the foreseeable future.

The Company’s business is subject to quarterly fluctuations in net sales and operating income. Annual price increases, promotional activities, as well as changes in inventory levels at distributors contribute to this fluctuation. Distributor inventory levels tend to increase in the period leading up to a price increase and decline in the period following the implementation of a price increase, although these fluctuations are mitigated by limits on purchases ahead of these increases. Changes in dealer inventory levels have impacted the Company’s consolidated net sales in the past, and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, the Company may from time to time, engage in new distributor relationships that could cause fluctuations of consolidated net sales and operating income. Distributor inventory levels may fluctuate, and may differ from the Company’s projections, resulting in the Company’s forecast of future results being different than expected.

There can be no assurance that the Company’s dealers and customers will maintain levels of inventory or patterns of build and liquidation timing in accordance with the Company’s predictions or past history. As of January 1, 2022, certain dealers’ inventory of the Company’s CAD/CAM products in the U.S. were higher than at the beginning of fiscal year 2021 by approximately $50 million due to lower-than-expected retail sales as well as timing-related purchases by dealers in the fourth quarter of 2021, partly driven by incentives offered during the latter half of 2021. During 2022, the levels of inventory at our distributors were reduced by approximately $60 million, returning to a level more aligned with our historical expectations.

The Company anticipates that inventory levels may continue to fluctuate as dealers and customers manage the effects of supply chain constraints on their businesses. Any of these fluctuations could be material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. For more information about the drivers of our business and related risks, see Part I, Item 1, "Business" and Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Restructuring Programs

On February 14, 2023, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a plan to restructure the Company’s business to improve operational performance and drive shareholder value creation. This plan consists of the following planned measures: (a) implement a new operating model with five global business units designed to drive enterprise integration and align the product portfolio with our growth strategy; (b) commencement of central functions and infrastructure optimization to support efficiency of the overall organization; (c) creation of a Senior Vice President of the Quality and Regulatory role, designed to elevate the quality and regulatory affairs function within the management team; (d) simplify the management structure to bring the Company in-line with industry best practices; and (e) deliver cost savings to fund critical investments in 2023 and beyond to position the Company for sustainable future growth.

42

The restructuring plan anticipates a reduction in the Company’s global workforce of approximately 8% to 10%, subject to co-determination processes with employee representative groups in countries where required. The Company expects to incur up to $165 million in one-time charges, comprising $130 million in restructuring expenditures and charges, the majority of which will be expensed as cash expenditures in 2023, primarily related to employee transition, severance payments and employee benefits; and $35 million in other non-recurring costs related to the restructuring activity which mostly consist of legal, consulting and other professional service fees. The Company anticipates that the restructuring plan will be substantially completed within the next eighteen months and result in $200 to $225 million in net annual cost savings.

Impact of Foreign Currencies

Due to the Company’s global footprint, movements in foreign currency exchange rates may have a material impact on its reported net sales and pre-tax income. With approximately two-thirds of the Company’s net sales originating from regions outside the U.S, the Company’s net sales and results of operations are negatively impacted by the strengthening, or positively impacted by the weakening, of the U.S. dollar compared to the primary currencies in which the Company operates.

 While the Company employs financial instruments to hedge some of its transactional foreign exchange exposure, these activities do not insulate it completely from those exposures, particularly from the currency exposure arising from translation of non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. During fiscal year 2022, both net sales and gross profit were adversely impacted due to the significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. The continued strength of the U.S. dollar could continue to adversely impact the Company's results.

43

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net Sales

A reconciliation of net sales to organic sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 was as follows:

-------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -------- ----- -------- -- - ----- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Net sales $ 3,922 $ 4,231 $ (309) (7.3 %)
Foreign exchange impact (6.8 %)
Acquisitions 0.1 %
Divestitures and discontinued products (0.1 %)
Organic sales (0.5 %)

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.

The decrease in organic sales was primarily due to overall weaker performance in the U.S., as explained below, including sales of CAD/CAM and Endodontic & Restorative consumables products, and the ongoing impact of global supply chain constraints and reduction in volumes due to product availability, particularly for certain Equipment & Instruments products which rely on electronic components. Sales were also negatively impacted by reduced demand from patient traffic in certain markets as a result of COVID-19 variants and related restrictions, particularly in China. These negative drivers were mostly offset by strong regional performance in the Europe and demand for Orthodontic products, as well as a benefit from price increases.

Net Sales by Segment

Technologies & Equipment

A reconciliation of net sales to organic sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 was as follows:

--------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -------- -------- -- ----- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Net sales $ 2,318 2,504 $ (186) (7.4 %)
Foreign exchange impact (7.9 %)
Acquisitions 0.1 %

Organic sales 0.4 %

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.

The increase in organic sales was primarily due to higher demand for Orthodontics and Equipment & Instruments, as well as a benefit from price increases. These positive drivers were offset by the impact of ongoing global supply chain constraints and lower volumes due to product availability, particularly for certain Equipment & Instruments products which rely on electronic components, as well as the impact of COVID-19 reducing demand in certain markets, particularly China. Sales of CAD/CAM products in the U.S. were also negatively impacted by high dealer inventory levels at the start of fiscal year 2022, as explained below.

44

Consumables

A reconciliation of net sales to organic sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 was as follows:

-------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -------- ----- -------- -- - ----- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Net sales $ 1,604 $ 1,727 $ (123) (7.1 %)
Foreign exchange impact (5.2 %)

Divestitures and discontinued products (0.2 %)
Organic sales (1.7 %)

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.

The decrease in organic sales was due to lower Endodontic & Restorative volumes, particularly in the U.S. and China, with sales volumes in the latter having been affected by COVID-19 variants and the impact of government regulations stemming from the pandemic. Sales during the comparative twelve months of 2021 benefited from our customers restocking their inventory of consumables products as part of the overall recovery from the pandemic. The decline in sales volume was partly offset by strong performance for preventive consumables products and a benefit from price increases across the segment.

Net Sales by Region

United States

A reconciliation of net sales to organic sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 was as follows:

-------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -------- ----- -------- -- - ---- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Net sales $ 1,392 $ 1,480 $ (88) (5.9 %)
Foreign exchange impact (1.4 %)
Acquisitions 0.2 %
Divestitures and discontinued products (0.1 %)
Organic sales (4.6 %)

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.

The decrease in organic sales was attributable to both the Technologies & Equipment and the Consumables segments and was primarily due to weaker retail performance in several product groups overall and lower wholesale volumes for CAD/CAM products, due in part to higher dealer inventory at the beginning of fiscal year 2022 which was subsequently reduced throughout the year. The level of inventory for CAD/CAM units held by dealers was reduced by approximately $60 million during 2022, compared to a build in inventory levels of approximately $50 million in 2021 partly as a result of incremental incentives offered during the latter half of that period which did not recur in 2022. Sales volumes were also negatively impacted by ongoing global supply chain constraints affecting the ability to fulfill certain Equipment & Instruments orders, particularly for imaging products. These negative drivers were partly offset by growth in demand for Orthodontics products.

Europe

A reconciliation of net sales to organic sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 was as follows:

-------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -------- ----- -------- -- - ----- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Net sales $ 1,559 $ 1,675 $ (116) (6.9 %)
Foreign exchange impact (9.8 %)

Divestitures and discontinued products (0.1 %)
Organic sales 3.0 %

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.

45

The increase in organic sales was primarily due to overall higher demand for Endodontic & Restorative products. Sales for Equipment & Instruments, CAD/CAM, and Orthodontics products were higher as a result of favorable market trends and demand in the first three quarters of the year, as well as a benefit from price increases. Organic sales growth in Europe declined during the fourth quarter, partly as a result of lower demand for Implants products. Organic sales for fiscal year 2022 was partly suppressed by ongoing global supply chain constraints, particularly for certain Equipment & Instruments products which rely on electronic components.

Rest of World

A reconciliation of net sales to organic sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 was as follows:

-------------------------------------- ----------------------- --- ---- -------- ----- -------- -- - ----- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Net sales $ 971 $ 1,076 $ (105) (9.8 %)
Foreign exchange impact (9.6 %)

Divestitures and discontinued products (0.1 %)
Organic sales (0.1 %)

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.

Organic sales showed a slight decline driven primarily by lower demand in China resulting from the adverse impact of COVID-19 and government restrictions affecting patient traffic. Beginning in the third quarter of 2022, we began to see softer demand for Implants products in China ahead of the local volume based procurement program taking effect in the first half of 2023. For additional details see Part I, Item I, "Business." These negative drivers were mostly offset due to overall growth in sales for CAD/CAM products. Absent the significant decline in sales for China, we also saw strong retail demand across the region for restorative and preventive consumables products.

Gross Profit

----------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ---- -------- ----- --------- - ----- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Gross profit $ 2,127 $ 2,347 $ (220) (9.4 %)

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 54.2 % 55.5 % (130) bps

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.

The decrease in the gross profit rate as a percentage of net sales was primarily driven by foreign currency headwinds, increased inflationary pressures on material and distribution costs in the current year, and unfavorable mix driven by lower demand for higher margin products. This was partially offset by price increases, a reduction in customer sales incentives for certain products, and lower warranty provisions relative to the prior year. Inflationary pressure on direct material remained strong throughout the second half of 2022, resulting in an increased inventory balance which is expected to negatively impact cost of goods sold in 2023 as the inventory is sold.

46

Operating Expenses

----------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ---- -------- ----- -------- - --- - --- -
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) $ 1,589 $ 1,551 $ 38 2.4 %
Research and development expenses ("R&D") 174 171 3 1.6 %
Goodwill impairment 1,187 — 1,187 NM
Intangible asset impairment and other costs 114 17 97 NM

SG&A as a percentage of net sales 40.5 % 36.6 % 390 bps
R&D as a percentage of net sales 4.4 % 4.1 % 30 bps

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.
 NM - Not meaningful

SG&A Expenses

SG&A expenses increased primarily due to costs related to the recently concluded internal investigation conducted by the Audit and Finance Committee and related remediation activities, including various legal, accounting and other professional services fees, as well as turnover and other employee-related costs. We also incurred higher headcount and travel expenses during the current year following the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. These increases were partly offset by lower expense for sales commissions and a benefit from foreign currency translation.

R&D Expenses

R&D expenses showed a slight increase due to increased investments in digital workflow solutions, product development initiatives, software development including clinical application suite and cloud deployment. R&D expense as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to lower sales in 2022 as compared to the prior year. We expect to continue to maintain a level of investment in R&D that is at least 4% of annual net sales.

Goodwill Impairment

For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1,187 million related to two reporting units within the Technologies & Equipment segment. There were no impairments recorded in the year ended December 31, 2021. As the fair value of these reporting units continues to approximate carrying value as of December 31, 2022, any further decline in key assumptions could result in additional impairments in future periods. For further details see Item 8, Note 12, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.

Intangible Asset Impairment and Other Costs

During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded net expense of $114 million of intangible asset impairment and other costs which consist primarily of an impairment charge of $100 million related to certain tradenames and trademarks within both the Technology & Equipment segment and Consumables segment and $14 million of other costs, which consist primarily of restructuring costs in connection with the various restructuring initiatives. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded net expense of $17 million of restructuring costs in connection with the various restructuring initiatives. As the fair value of these indefinite-lived intangible assets continues to approximate carrying value as of December 31, 2022, any further decline in key assumptions could result in additional impairments in future periods. For further details see Item 8, Note 19, Intangible Asset Impairment and Other Costs, in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.

47

Segment Adjusted Operating Income

------------------------------------ ----------------------- --- ---- --- -------- --- -------- - ----- -- ----- --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages)(a) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Technologies & Equipment $ 399 $ 543 $ (144) (26.5 %)

Consumables 495 539 (44) (8.2 %)
Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.
(a) See Note 7, Segment and Geographic Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a reconciliation from segment adjusted operating income to consolidated US GAAP income.

The decrease in adjusted operating income for both Technologies & Equipment and Consumables was primarily driven by the decrease in sales volumes and the higher costs for raw materials, labor, and distribution costs in the current year as a result of supply chain constraints and global currency inflation, offset by benefits from price increases.

Other Income and Expenses

--------------------------------- ----------------------- --- ---- - -------- -- -------- - -- --- -
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change

Interest expense, net $ 60 $ 55 $ 5 9.6 %
Other expense (income), net 58 8 50 NM
Net interest and other expense $ 118 $ 63 $ 55

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.
NM - Not meaningful

Interest expense, net

Net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by $5 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, driven primarily by higher interest rates on short-term and other borrowings partially offset by lower average borrowings in 2022 relative to the prior year period.

Other expense (income), net
Other expense (income), net for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 was as follows:

------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- -- ---- --- -------- --- --- - --
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change

Loss (gain) on sales or disposal of non-core businesses $ 3 $ (7) $ 10
Foreign exchange losses (gains) (a) 11 (6) 17
Loss from equity method investments 36 10 26
Defined benefit pension plan expenses (income) 7 10 (3)
Other non-operating loss 1 1 —
Other expense (income), net $ 58 $ 8 $ 50

(a) Foreign exchange losses (gains) are primarily related to the revaluation of intercompany payables and loans.

Loss from equity method investments for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased by $26 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 and primarily relates to a write-off of the Company's ownership position in a privately-held dental investment company following impairment of underlying investments held by the investment company and the Company's determination that the remaining investment is not recoverable.

48

Income Taxes and Net (Loss) Income

---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- ---- -------- ---- - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share data and percentages) 2022 2021 $ Change

(Benefit) provision for income taxes $ (105) $ 134 $ (239)

Effective income tax rate 9.9 % 24.6 %

Net (loss) income attributable to Dentsply Sirona $ (950) $ 411 $ (1,361)

Net (loss) income per common share - diluted (a) $ (4.41) $ 1.87

Percentages are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding.
(a) For the year ended December 31, 2022, our net loss per share was calculated on a non-diluted basis.

(Benefit) provision for income taxes

We recorded an income tax benefit of $105 million and an income tax expense of $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 24.6% to 9.9% is primarily due to the impairment of goodwill recorded in 2022.

Further information regarding the details of income taxes is presented in Note 17, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Discussion of the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 was included in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, as amended and filed with the SEC on November 7, 2022.

49

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the consolidated financial statements. The process of determining significant estimates is fact specific and takes into account factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions, product mix and in some cases, actuarial techniques. The Company evaluates these significant factors as facts and circumstances dictate. Some events as described below could cause results to differ significantly from those determined using estimates. The Company has identified the following accounting estimates as those which are critical to its business and results of operations.

Business Acquisitions

The Company acquires businesses as well as partial interests in businesses. Acquired businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires the Company to record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their respective fair values with the excess of the purchase price over estimated fair values recorded as goodwill. The assumptions made in determining the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities as well as asset lives can materially impact the results of operations.

The Company obtains information during due diligence and through other sources to get respective fair values. Examples of factors and information that the Company uses to determine the fair values include: tangible and intangible asset evaluations and appraisals, and evaluations of existing contingencies, liabilities, and product line integration information. If the initial valuation for an acquisition is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the acquisition occurred, the Company will record a provisional estimate in the financial statements. The provisional estimate will be finalized as soon as information becomes available but will only occur up to one year from the acquisition date. More information on the assumptions used to estimate the fair values of acquired intangible assets is included in Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

The Company follows the accounting standards for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, which require an annual test for impairment to goodwill using a fair value approach. In addition to minimum annual impairment tests, the Company also performs impairment assessments more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill or indefinite-lived assets might be impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit with goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that reporting unit, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess amount. Similarly, if the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized on the intangible.

Impairment Assessment

Assessment of the potential impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is an integral part of the Company’s normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of these assets is dependent on significant assumptions and reflects management’s best estimates at a particular point in time. The dynamic economic environments in which the Company’s businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions with respect to projected selling prices, increased competition and introductions of new technologies can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Changes in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time at which such impairments are recognized. If there are unfavorable changes in these assumptions, particularly changes in the Company’s discount rates, revenue growth rates, and operating margins, the Company may be required to recognize impairment charges.

In particular, the determination of fair value involves uncertainties around the forecasted cash flows as it requires management to make assumptions and apply judgment to estimate future business expectations. Those future expectations include, but are not limited to, the current and ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, distribution channel changes, impact from competition, and new product developments for these reporting units. The Company also considers the current and projected market and economic conditions for dental and medical device industries, both in the U.S. and globally, when determining its assumptions. Operating cash flow assumptions may also be impacted by assumptions regarding costs and benefits from restructuring initiatives, tax rates, foreign exchange rates, capital spending and working capital changes.

50

A change in any of these estimates and assumptions used in the annual test, as well as unfavorable changes in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, or in the overall markets served by these reporting units, among other factors, could have a negative material impact to the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets and could result in a future impairment charge. There can be no assurance that the Company's future goodwill and indefinite-lived impairment testing will not result in a material adverse impact to the Company's results of operations.

 Information with respect to the Company’s significant accounting policies on goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are included in Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Goodwill Impairment

Goodwill represents the excess cost over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of business acquired. Goodwill is not amortized; instead, it is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired, or if a decision is made to sell a business. Judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred during the course of the year. Such indicators may include a decline in expected cash flows, unanticipated competition or slower growth rates, among others. When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company may assess qualitative factors for its reporting units to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount including goodwill. Alternatively, the Company may bypass this qualitative assessment and perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. It is important to note that fair values which could be realized in an actual transaction may differ from those used to evaluate the impairment of goodwill.

Goodwill is allocated among reporting units and evaluated for impairment at that level. The Company’s reporting units are either an operating segment or one level below its operating segments, as determined in accordance with ASC 350.

The quantitative evaluation of impairment involves comparing the current fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. The Company uses a discounted cash flow model (“DCF model”) as its valuation technique to measure the fair value for its reporting units when testing for impairment, as management believes forecasted operating cash flows are the best indicator of such fair value. The discounted cash flow model uses five- to ten- year forecasted cash flows plus a terminal value based on capitalizing the last period’s cash flows using a perpetual growth rate. The significant assumptions and estimates involved in the application of the DCF model to forecast operating cash flows include, but are not limited to the discount rates, revenue growth rates (including perpetual growth rates), future operating margin percentages, and net working capital changes of the reporting unit’s business. These assumptions may vary significantly among the reporting units. Operating cash flow forecasts are based on approved business-unit operating plans for the early years and historical relationships and projections in later years. In the development of the forecasted cash flows, the Company applies revenue, gross profit, and operating expense assumptions taking into consideration historical trends as well as future expectations. The revenue growth rate assumptions were developed in consideration of future expectations which included, but were not limited to, the current and ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, distribution channel changes, impact from competition, and new product developments for these reporting units. Discount rates are estimated for geographic regions and applied to the reporting units located within the regions. These rates are developed based on market participant data, which included assumptions regarding the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business-specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. As part of the annual test, the Company reconciled the aggregate fair values of its reporting units to its market capitalization, which included a reasonable control premium based on market conditions. The Company has not materially changed its methodology for goodwill impairment testing for the years presented.

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Asset Impairment

Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of tradenames, trademarks and in-process R&D and are not subject to amortization; instead, they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired or if a decision is made to sell a business. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred during the course of the year. Such indicators may include a decline in expected cash flow, unanticipated competition or slower growth rates, among others. It is important to note that fair values that could be realized in an actual transaction may differ from those used to evaluate the impairment of indefinite-lived assets.

51

The fair value of acquired tradenames and trademarks is estimated by the use of a relief from royalty method, which values an indefinite-lived intangible asset by estimating the royalties saved through the ownership of an asset. Under this method, an owner of an indefinite-lived intangible asset determines the arm’s length royalty that likely would have been charged if the owner had to license the asset from a third party. The royalty rate, which is based on the estimated rate applied against forecasted sales, is tax-effected and discounted at present value using a discount rate commensurate with the relative risk of achieving the cash flow attributable to the asset. Management judgment is necessary to determine key assumptions, including revenue growth rates, perpetual revenue growth rates, royalty rates, and discount rates. Other assumptions are consistent with those applied to goodwill impairment testing.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Asset Impairment Results

No goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible impairment was identified as of April 1, 2022 in conjunction with the annual test.

In the third quarter of 2022, the Company experienced adverse macroeconomic factors as a result of weakened global demand, higher cost of capital, unfavorable foreign currency impacts, and increased raw material, supply chain and service costs, which contributed to reduced forecasted revenues, lower operating margins, and reduced expectations for future cash flows. As a result, the Company identified indicators of a "more likely than not" impairment related to its Digital Dental Group and Equipment & Instruments reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets, included within the Technologies & Equipment segment, and indicators of a "more likely than not" impairment related to its indefinite-lived intangibles assets for the Consumables reporting unit within the Consumables segment. As such, an interim impairment test was performed ("the interim test"). The Company recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge related to the Digital Dental Group and Equipment & Instruments reporting units within the Technologies & Equipment segment of $1,100 million and $87 million, respectively, and an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $66 million and $26 million for the Digital Dental Group and Equipment & Instruments reporting units, respectively, within the Technologies & Equipment segment and a $2 million impairment charge for the Consumables reporting unit within the Consumables reporting unit for the three months ended September 30, 2022.

In the fourth quarter of 2022, reductions in near-term forecasts for specific tradenames and continued adverse macroeconomic factors, including the impact of foreign exchange rates, resulted in indicators of a "more likely than not" impairment for certain indefinite-lived intangible assets within the Equipment & Instruments reporting unit within the Technologies & Equipment segment and the Consumables reporting unit within the Consumables segment. As such, an impairment test was performed during the fourth quarter, resulting in an intangible asset impairment charges of $2 million and $4 million for indefinite-lived intangible assets within the Equipment & Instruments and Consumables reporting units, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2022.

For 2022, the goodwill impairment charge was recorded in Goodwill impairment in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the intangibles impairment charges were recorded in Intangible asset impairment and other costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For further information on our annual and interim tests, see Note 12, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

No goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible impairment was identified for the year ended December 31, 2021.

In 2020, the Company recorded impairment charges of $157 million and $39 million related to goodwill and certain tradenames and trademarks, respectively, for the Equipment & Instruments reporting unit within the Technologies & Equipment segment as a result of changes in forecasted revenues, operating margins, and discount rates due to the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The goodwill impairment charge was recorded in Goodwill impairment in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the intangibles impairment charge was recorded in Intangible asset impairment and other costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Income Taxes

Income taxes are determined using the liability method of accounting for income taxes. The Company’s tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes plus the provision for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries not considered to be permanently invested.

52

The Company applies a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The Company recognizes in the consolidated financial statements the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not of being sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position.

Certain items of income and expense are not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the same year. The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if it is more likely than not that the assets will be realized in future years. The Company establishes a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for which realization is not likely. At December 31, 2022, the Company has a valuation allowance of $645 million against the benefit of certain deferred tax assets of foreign and domestic subsidiaries.

The Company’s tax positions are subject to ongoing examinations by the tax authorities. The Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions throughout the world and in the normal course of business is examined by taxing authorities in those jurisdictions. Adjustments to the uncertain tax positions are recorded when taxing authority examinations are completed, statutes of limitation are closed, changes in tax laws occur or as new information comes to light with regard to the technical merits of the tax position.

53

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

------------------------------------------------------------ ---- ----------------------- ---- -------- - ---- --- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021 $ Change

Cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 517 $ 657 $ (140)
Investing activities (138) (358) 220
Financing activities (329) (379) 50
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (24) (19) (5)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 26 $ (99) $ 125

Cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily as a result of lower sales during the current period, as well as a build-up in inventory partly as a consequence of temporary COVID-19 related shutdowns in China. These decreases in operating cash were offset by other changes in working capital including higher liabilities for trade accounts payables and lower accounts receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the number of days for sales outstanding in accounts receivable decreased by 5 days to 55 days at December 31, 2022 as compared to 60 days at December 31, 2021, and the number of days of sales in inventory increased by 27 days to 137 days at December 31, 2022 as compared to 110 days at December 31, 2021.

The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to activity in 2021 including lower cash paid for acquisitions of $248 million, partially offset by lower proceeds from the sale of non-strategic businesses or product lines of $28 million, higher capital expenditures of $7 million, and higher cash proceeds from net investment hedges of $11 million. The Company estimates capital expenditures to be in the range of approximately $150 million to $170 million for the full year 2023 and expects these investments to include expansion of facilities to provide incremental space for growth and to consolidate operations for enhanced efficiencies.

The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily driven by lower net payments on debt of $42 million during 2022 compared to prior year, lower stock repurchases of $50 million and lower proceeds from exercises of stock options of $45 million. Primarily as a result of this activity, combined with a decrease of $60 million due to exchange rate fluctuations on debt denominated in foreign currencies, the Company's total borrowings decreased by a net $151 million during the year ended December 31, 2022.

During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company repurchased approximately 3.1 million shares under its open market share repurchase plan for a cost of $150 million at a volume-weighted average price of $48.22. On July 28, 2021, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase in the value of shares of common stock that may be repurchased under the share repurchase program to $1 billion. At December 31, 2022, $740 million of authorization remains available for future share repurchases. Additional share repurchases, if any, may be made through open market purchases, Rule 10b5-1 plans, accelerated share repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, or other transactions in such amounts and at such times as the Company considers appropriate based upon prevailing market and business conditions and other factors. At December 31, 2022, the Company held 49.3 million shares of treasury stock.

The Company's ratio of total net debt to total capitalization was as follows:

-------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions, except percentages) 2022 2021

Current portion of debt $ 118 $ 182
Long-term debt 1,826 1,913
Less: Cash and cash equivalents 365 339
Net debt $ 1,579 $ 1,756

Total equity 3,812 4,997
Total capitalization $ 5,391 $ 6,753

Total net debt to total capitalization ratio 29.3 % 26.0 %

54

At December 31, 2022, the Company had a total remaining borrowing capacity of $632 million under lines of credit, including lines available under its short-term arrangements and revolving credit facility. The Company's borrowing capacity includes a $700 million credit facility from 2018 available through July 28, 2024. The Company also has available an aggregate $500 million under a U.S. dollar commercial paper facility. The $700 million revolver serves as a back-up to the commercial paper facility, thus the total available credit under the commercial paper facility and the multi-currency revolving credit facility in the aggregate is $700 million. The Company had $95 million outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper facility at December 31, 2022 resulting in $605 million remaining available under the revolving credit and commercial paper facilities. The Company also has access to $50 million in uncommitted short-term financing under lines of credit from various financial institutions. The lines of credit have no major restrictions and are provided under demand notes between the Company and the lending institutions. At December 31, 2022, the Company has $22 million outstanding under short-term borrowing arrangements.

The Company’s revolving credit facility, term loans and senior notes contain certain covenants relating to the Company's operations and financial condition. The most restrictive of these covenants are: a ratio of total debt outstanding to total capital not to exceed 0.6, and a ratio of operating income excluding depreciation and amortization to interest expense of not less than 3.0 times, in each case, as such terms are defined in the relevant agreement. Any breach of any such covenants would result in a default under the existing debt agreements that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and, through cross default provisions, would entitle the Company's other lenders to accelerate their loans. At December 31, 2022, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.

Additionally, the Company is required under certain of its debt agreements to deliver or make available to borrowers its unaudited financial statements on a timely basis each quarter along with the necessary certifications. As a result of the Company’s temporary failure to file its unaudited financial statements for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2022 and June 30, 2022 by the reporting deadlines, the Company obtained the consents of the requisite lenders and noteholders of its outstanding indebtedness to extend the time period for delivery of such unaudited financial statements until November 14, 2022. Those financial statements were delivered on November 9, 2022 and therefore, the Company did not suffer an event of default as a result of the previously delayed filings.

The Company expects on an ongoing basis to be able to finance operating cash requirements, capital expenditures, and debt service from the current cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and amounts available under its existing borrowing facilities. The Company's credit facilities are further discussed in Note 15, Financing Arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

The cash held by foreign subsidiaries for permanent reinvestment is generally used to finance the subsidiaries' operating activities and future foreign investments. The Company has the ability to repatriate cash to the U.S., which could result in an adjustment to the tax liability for foreign withholding taxes, foreign and/or U.S. state income taxes, and the impact of foreign currency movements. At December 31, 2022, management believed that sufficient liquidity was available in the U.S. and expects this to remain for the next twelve months. The Company has repatriated and expects to continue repatriating certain funds from its non-U.S. subsidiaries that are not needed to finance local operations, however, these particular repatriation activities have not and are not expected to result in a significant incremental tax liability to the Company.

The Company continues to review its debt portfolio and may refinance additional debt or add debt in the near-term based on strategic capital management. The Company believes there is sufficient liquidity available for the next twelve months.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2022, the Company held $42 million of precious metals on consignment from several financial institutions. Under these consignment arrangements, the financial institutions own the precious metal, and, accordingly, the Company does not report this consigned inventory as part of its inventory on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These consignment agreements allow the Company to acquire the precious metal at market rates at a point in time, which is approximately the same time, and for the same price as alloys are sold to the Company's customers. In the event that the financial institutions would discontinue offering these consignment arrangements, and if the Company could not obtain other comparable arrangements, the Company may be required to obtain third party financing to fund an ownership position to maintain precious metal inventory at operational levels. For additional details, see Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk - Consignment Arrangements."

55

Contractual Obligations

The Company's scheduled contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2022 were as follows:

---------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ --- --------- --- --------- --- ------------------ ----- --- --- ----- - -----
 Within1 Year Years 2-3 Years 4-5 GreaterThan5 Years Total
(in millions)

Long-term borrowings, including finance leases $ 1 $ 227 $ 303 $ 1,340 $ 1,871
Operating leases 61 84 41 37 223
Purchase commitments 176 193 43 — 412
Interest on long-term borrowings, net of interest rate swap agreements 47 91 73 81 292
Postemployment obligations 25 47 51 128 251
Precious metal consignment agreements 42 — — — 42
 $ 352 $ 642 $ 511 $ 1,586 $ 3,091

Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with the Company's unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2022, the Company is unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority; therefore, $55 million of unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 17, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Material Trends in Capital Resources

Beginning in the second quarter of 2022, the Company's financial results have been impacted by the costs associated with the internal investigation conducted by the Audit and Finance Committee and assisted by independent legal counsel and forensic accountants. These costs have included professional service fees associated with the investigation itself, as well as third party accounting and legal costs incurred by management to make assessments and revisions and begin remediation activities in response to the investigation's findings. Additionally, the Company has incurred severance costs associated with its remedial personnel actions, as well as costs in connection with retention of key personnel. These costs totaled approximately $61 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Although the internal investigation has been completed, related costs are expected to continue as a material trend into 2023 as the Company works to complete its remediation activities described in Part II, Item 9A Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K, and incurs legal defense costs pertaining to the matters described in Note 22 Commitments and Contingencies to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.

56

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Refer to Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of recent accounting guidance and pronouncements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[see Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[Refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[See Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[see Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[refer to Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[see Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[included in Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[included in Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 9A]:
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES The Company's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer, based on their evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the purposes set forth in the definition thereof in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of December 31, 2022. MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("The Hartford") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for The Hartford as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, int...

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 9A]:
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES The Company's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer, based on their evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the purposes set forth in the definition thereof in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of December 31, 2022. MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("The Hartford") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for The Hartford as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, int...

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

['s current scope could result in a loss of sales, disrupt our supply chain, broaden inflationary costs, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional discussion of associated risks, refer to Part I, Item 1A, "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s results of operations.

 Information with respect to the Company’s significant accounting policies on goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are included in Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Goodwill Impairment

Goodwill represents the excess cost over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of business acquired. Goodwill is not amortized; instead, it is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired, or if a decision is made to sell a business. Judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred during the course of the year. Such indicators may include a decline in expected cash flows, unanticipated competition or slower growth rates, among others. When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company may assess qualitative factors for its reporting units to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount including goodwill. Alternatively, the Company may bypass this qualitative assessment and perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. It is important to note that fair values which could be realized in an actual transaction may differ from those used to evaluate the impairment of goodwill.

Goodwill is allocated among reporting units and evaluated for impairment at that level. The Company’s reporting units are either an operating segment or one level below its operating segments, as determined in accordance with ASC 350.

The quantitative evaluation of impairment involves comparing the current fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. The Company uses a discounted cash flow model (“DCF model”) as its valuation technique to measure the fair value for its reporting units when testing for impairment, as management believes forecasted operating cash flows are the best indicator of such fair value. The discounted cash flow model uses five- to ten- year forecasted cash flows plus a terminal value based on capitalizing the last period’s cash flows using a perpetual growth rate. The significant assumptions and estimates involved in the application of the DCF model to forecast operating cash flows include, but are not limited to the discount rates, revenue growth rates (including perpetual growth rates), future operating margin percentages, and net working capital changes of the reporting unit’s business. These assumptions may vary significantly among the reporting units. Operating cash flow forecasts are based on approved business-unit operating plans for the early years and historical relationships and projections in later years. In the development of the forecasted cash flows, the Company applies revenue, gross profit, and operating expense assumptions taking into consideration historical trends as well as future expectations. The revenue growth rate assumptions were developed in consideration of future expectations which included, but were not limited to, the current and ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, distribution channel changes, impact from competition, and new product developments for these reporting units. Discount rates are estimated for geographic regions and applied to the reporting units located within the regions. These rates are developed based on market participant data, which included assumptions regarding the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business-specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

['s other lenders to accelerate their loans. At December 31, 2022, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.

Additionally, the Company is required under certain of its debt agreements to deliver or make available to borrowers its unaudited financial statements on a timely basis each quarter along with the necessary certifications. As a result of the Company’s temporary failure to file its unaudited financial statements for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2022 and June 30, 2022 by the reporting deadlines, the Company obtained the consents of the requisite lenders and noteholders of its outstanding indebtedness to extend the time period for delivery of such unaudited financial statements until November 14, 2022. Those financial statements were delivered on November 9, 2022 and therefore, the Company did not suffer an event of default as a result of the previously delayed filings.

The Company expects on an ongoing basis to be able to finance operating cash requirements, capital expenditures, and debt service from the current cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and amounts available under its existing borrowing facilities. The Company']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[" below) net sales decreased 0.5% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to prior year. Net sales were negatively impacted by approximately 6.8% due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar over the prior year period.

•Net loss was $950 million as compared to net income of $411 million for the prior year primarily due to an goodwill impairment charge of $1,187 million. Diluted loss per share was $4.41 per share compared to net income per share of $1.87 in the prior year.

•Cash from operations was $517 million, as compared to $657 million in the prior year.

Material Weaknesses in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Identified During the Recent Investigation

As previously disclosed, management determined there were material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, which have not been remediated as of December 31, 2022. For more information about the identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and the Company’s remedial actions, please see Part II, Item 8 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Part II, Item 9A Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K.

Company Profile

DENTSPLY SIRONA Inc. (“Dentsply Sirona” or the “Company”), is the world’s largest manufacturer of professional dental products and technologies, with a 136-year history of innovation and service to the dental industry and patients worldwide. Dentsply Sirona develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive solutions offering including dental equipment and dental consumable products under a strong portfolio of world class brands. The Company also manufactures and markets healthcare consumable products. Dentsply Sirona’s products provide innovative, high-quality and effective solutions to advance patient care and deliver better, safer and faster dentistry. Dentsply Sirona’s worldwide headquarters is located in Charlotte, North Carolina. The Company’s shares of common stock are listed in the U.S. on Nasdaq under the symbol XRAY.

BUSINESS

The Company operates in two operating segments, Technologies & Equipment and Consumables.

39

The Technologies & Equipment segment is responsible for the design, manufacture, sales and distribution of products including dental implants, CAD/CAM systems, orthodontic aligner products, imaging systems, treatment centers, instruments, as well as certain healthcare device products, primarily catheters.

The Consumables segment is responsible for the design, manufacture, sales and distribution of dental consumable products which include categories of preventive, restorative, endodontic, and dental laboratory application.

The impacts of COVID-19 and the Company’s response

The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant volatility and uncertainty in the overall markets particularly in the year that followed the initial outbreak late in 2019, leading to changes in consumer behavior, government restrictions on individuals and businesses, and significant disruption to supply chains in several sectors, including dental equipment and medical supplies.

The Company’s 2020 results were materially impacted by this disruption at the outset of the pandemic, including the closure or reduced operations of dental practices. During 2021, demand for the Company’s products largely recovered, although the Company continued to be impacted by shortages and higher prices for certain raw materials, as well as increasing distribution and labor costs.

The Company']:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29