================================================================================
CIK: 0001300514
Company Name: LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP
Filing Date: 2023-02-03
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 08:31:13
================================================================================

Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.
Cash Flows — Operating Activities
Table games play at our properties is conducted on a cash and credit basis, while slot machine play is primarily conducted on a cash basis. Our rooms, food and beverage and other non-gaming revenues are conducted primarily on a cash basis and to a lesser extent as a trade receivable. Operating cash flows are generally affected by changes in operating income, accounts receivable, gaming related liabilities and interest payments. For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operations was $944 million, an increase of $701 million compared to $243 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in cash used for operations was primarily due to cash tax payments inclusive of, and primarily due to, the gain on sale of the Las Vegas Operations totaling $612 million, and our Macao operations generating increased operating losses and working capital requirements due to the decrease in visitation resulting from COVID-19 travel restrictions across key China markets in 2022 and Macao experiencing COVID-19 cases at various times throughout 2022. This cash usage was partially offset by operating cash flows provided by Marina Bay Sands due to the acceleration of visitation and elimination of restrictions in Singapore over the course of 2022.
Cash Flows — Investing Activities
Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2022, totaled $651 million. Included in this amount was $348 million at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore and $243 million for construction and development activities in Macao, which consisted of $175 million for The Londoner Macao, $52 million for The Venetian Macao, $9 million for The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, $4 million for Sands Macao and $3 million for The Parisian Macao. Additionally, this amount included $60 million for corporate and other.

59

Table of Contents
Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2021, totaled $828 million, including $653 million in Macao, which consisted of $551 million for The Londoner Macao, $71 million for The Venetian Macao and $19 million for The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao primarily for The Grand Suites at Four Seasons, $7 million from Sands Macao, $4 million for The Parisian Macao and $1 million for Ferry and Other; $148 million at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore; and $27 million for corporate and other.
Cash Flows — Financing Activities
Net cash flows generated from financing activities were $6.15 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was primarily attributable to the net proceeds from the sale of the Las Vegas Operating Properties of $4.89 billion and $1.20 billion from the drawdown of our SCL revolving facility. These items were partially offset by $66 million in repayments on long-term debt and $11 million in deferred offering costs relating to obtaining LVSC Revolving Facility lender consents to consummate the Las Vegas Sale and the covenant waiver obtained on the 2018 SCL Credit Facility.
Net cash flows generated from financing activities were $863 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was primarily attributable to net proceeds of $756 million, received from the drawdown of our SCL revolving facility, and transactions with discontinued operations. These items were partially offset by a $131 million make-whole premium for the early redemption of the SCL senior note due 2023 and $38 million in financing costs related to the issuance of the new unsecured notes at SCL and the covenant waivers obtained on the LVSC Revolving Facility, 2018 SCL Credit Facility and 2012 Singapore Credit Facility.
As of December 31, 2022, we had $2.48 billion available for borrowing under our U.S., Macao and Singapore revolving facilities, net of letters of credit. Additionally, we had $2.74 billion available for borrowing under the 2012 Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility to finance construction costs incurred in connection with the MBS Expansion Project.
Cash Flows — Discontinued Operations
Cash flows from discontinued operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, were primarily attributable to $4.89 billion in net proceeds from the Las Vegas Sale, which were transferred to continuing operations.
Capital Financing Overview
We fund our development projects primarily through borrowings from our debt instruments (see "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Long-Term Debt") and operating cash flows.
On February 23, 2022, we closed the sale of our Las Vegas Operations. At closing, we received approximately $5.05 billion in cash proceeds, before transaction costs and income taxes. The net proceeds of approximately $4.36 billion, after working capital adjustments, transaction costs and the payment of income taxes throughout 2022, will be used for incremental liquidity and general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures and development activities. In connection with the closing of the sale, we may be required to make certain payments (“Support Payments”) to OpCo. The Support Payments are payable on a monthly basis following the closing through the year ending December 31, 2023, based upon the performance of the Las Vegas Operations relative to certain agreed upon target metrics and subject to quarterly and annual adjustments. Our remaining payment obligations are subject to a cap equal to $250 million for the period beginning January 1, 2023 and ending December 31, 2023. No Support Payments were made for the period post-close through December 31, 2022. On January 31, 2023, the Company received notice from OpCo that the Contingent Lease Support Agreement had terminated pursuant to its terms and that neither party would have any further liability or obligation thereunder.
Our U.S., SCL and Singapore credit facilities, as amended, contain various financial covenants, which include maintaining a maximum leverage ratio or net debt, as defined, to trailing twelve-month adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined. In September 2021, LVSC extended the amendment, pursuant to which lenders, among other things, removed LVSC’s requirement to maintain a maximum leverage ratio as of the last day of the fiscal quarter, through and including December 31, 2022. In November 2022, SCL extended the waiver and amendment request letter, pursuant to which lenders, among other things, waived SCL’s requirement to ensure the leverage ratio does not exceed 4.0x and the interest coverage ratio is greater than

60

Table of Contents
2.50x, through July 31, 2023. In September 2021, MBS extended the amendment letter, pursuant to which MBS will not have to comply with the leverage or interest coverage covenants as of the last day of the fiscal quarter, through and including December 31, 2022. Our compliance with our financial covenants for periods beyond December 31, 2022 could be affected by certain factors beyond our control, such as the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, including travel, quarantine and border restrictions occurring in the future. We will pursue additional waivers to meet the required financial covenant ratios, which include a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0x, 4.0x and 4.5x under our U.S., Macao and Singapore credit facilities, respectively, for periods beyond December 31, 2022 for LVSC and MBS and July 31, 2023 for SCL, if deemed necessary. We believe we will be successful in obtaining the additional waivers, although no assurance can be provided that such waivers will be granted, which could negatively impact our ability to be in compliance with our debt covenants for periods beyond December 31, 2022 for LVSC and MBS and July 31, 2023 for SCL. The 2018 SCL Credit Facility expires on July 31, 2023; however, we believe we will be successful in extending the maturity date of the facility prior to its expiration. If we are unable to extend the maturity date or refinance the 2018 SCL Credit Facility, we would be required to seek alternative forms of capital to repay the outstanding balance and our available liquidity may be reduced.
On January 30, 2023, LVSC entered into the Fourth Amendment with lenders to the LVSC Revolving Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Fourth Amendment, the existing LVSC Revolving Credit Agreement was amended to (a) determine consolidated adjusted EBITDA on a year-to-date annualized basis during the period commencing on the effective date and ending on and including December 31, 2023, as follows: (i) for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2023, consolidated adjusted EBITDA for such fiscal quarter multiplied by four, (ii) for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2023, consolidated adjusted EBITDA for such fiscal quarter and the immediately preceding fiscal quarter multiplied by two, and (iii) for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2023, consolidated adjusted EBITDA for such fiscal quarter and the two immediately preceding fiscal quarters, multiplied by four-thirds; (b) extend the period during which LVSC is required to maintain a specified amount of minimum liquidity as of the last day of each month to December 31, 2023; and (c) extend the period during which LVSC is unable to declare or pay any dividend or other distribution, unless liquidity is greater than $1.0 billion on a pro forma basis after giving effect to such dividend or distribution, to December 31, 2023.
Any defaults under our debt agreements would allow the lenders, in each case, to exercise their rights and remedies as defined under their respective agreements. If the lenders were to exercise their rights to accelerate the due dates of the indebtedness outstanding, there can be no assurance we would be able to repay or refinance any amounts that may become due and payable under such agreements, which could force us to restructure or alter our operations or debt obligations.
We held unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $6.31 billion and restricted cash of $125 million as of December 31, 2022, of which approximately $2.57 billion of the unrestricted amount is held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. Of the $2.57 billion, approximately $2.06 billion is available to be repatriated, either in the form of dividends or via intercompany loans or advances, to the U.S., subject to levels of earnings, cash flow generated from gaming operations and various other factors, including dividend requirements to third-party public stockholders in the case of funds being repatriated from SCL, compliance with certain local statutes, laws and regulations currently applicable to our subsidiaries and restrictions in connection with their contractual arrangements. We do not expect withholding taxes or other foreign income taxes to apply should these earnings be distributed in the form of dividends or otherwise.
We believe the cash on hand and cash flow generated from operations, as well as the $2.48 billion available for borrowing under our U.S., Macao and Singapore credit facilities, net of outstanding letters of credit, and SGD 3.69 billion (approximately $2.74 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) under the 2012 Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility, as of December 31, 2022 (only available for draws after the construction cost estimate and construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project have been delivered to the lenders), will be sufficient to maintain compliance with the financial covenants of our credit facilities and fund our working capital needs, committed and planned capital expenditures, development opportunities and debt obligations. In the normal course of our activities, we will continue to evaluate global capital markets to consider future opportunities for enhancements of our capital structure. During the year ended December 31, 2022, SCL drew down $114 million and HKD 8.50 billion (approximately $1.09 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) under the SCL revolving facility for general corporate purposes.

61

Table of Contents
We have suspended our quarterly dividend program beginning in April 2020, and SCL suspended its dividend payments after paying its interim dividend for 2019 on February 21, 2020.
We believe we have a strong balance sheet and sufficient liquidity in place, including access to available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities. We also believe we are well positioned to support our continuing operations, complete the major construction projects underway, meet our commitments under the Macao Concession and respond to the current COVID-19 Pandemic challenges. We have taken various mitigating measures to manage through the current environment, including a cost and capital expenditure reduction program to minimize cash outflow for non-essential items.
Share Repurchase Program
In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $2.50 billion of our outstanding common stock, which was to expire in November 2020. In October 2020, our Board of Directors authorized the extension of the expiration date of the remaining repurchase amount of $916 million to November 2022 and in October 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the further extension of the expiration date of the remaining repurchase amount of $916 million to November 2024. During the year ended December 31, 2022, no shares of our common stock were repurchased under this program. All share repurchases of our common stock have been recorded as treasury stock. Repurchases of our common stock are made at our discretion in accordance with applicable federal securities laws in the open market or otherwise. The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including our financial position, earnings, cash flows, legal requirements, other investment opportunities and market conditions.

Aggregate Indebtedness and Other Contractual Obligations
Our total long-term indebtedness and other contractual obligations are summarized below as of December 31, 2022:

----------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ----- ----------- ----- ----------- ----- ---------- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ------
 Payments Due by Period(1)
 2023 2024 - 2025 2026 - 2027 Thereafter Total

 (In millions)
Long-Term Debt Obligations(2)
LVSC Senior Notes $ — $ 2,250 $ 1,000 $ 750 $ 4,000
SCL Senior Notes — 1,800 1,500 3,850 7,150
2018 SCL Credit Facility — Revolving 1,958 — — — 1,958
2012 Singapore Credit Facility 62 1,165 1,676 — 2,903
Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility — 15 31 — 46
Other Debt(3) 11 14 1 — 26
Fixed Interest Payments 480 898 521 379 2,278
Variable Interest Payments(4) 206 235 35 — 476
Macao Concession Related(5)
Macao Annual Premium(6) 41 82 82 203 408
Handover Record(7) 13 25 85 212 335
Contractual Obligations
Operating Leases, Including Imputed Interest(8) 14 19 14 304 351
Mall Deposits(9) 65 58 13 13 149
Other(10) 95 96 39 134 364
Total $ 2,945 $ 6,657 $ 4,997 $ 5,845 $ 20,444

_______________________
(1)As of December 31, 2022, we had a $100 million liability related to uncertain tax positions. We do not expect this liability to result in a payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are unable to reasonably

62

Table of Contents
estimate the timing of the liability in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions; therefore, such amounts are not included in the table.
(2)See "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Long-Term Debt" for further details on these financing transactions and "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 16 — Leases" for further details on finance leases.
(3)Other debt consists of finance leases, including imputed interest, and other financed purchased obligations, including the related interest.
(4)Based on the 1-month rate as of December 31, 2022, Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") of 4.30%, Hong Kong Inter-Bank Offer Rate (“HIBOR”) of 4.35% and Singapore Swap Offer Rate ("SOR") of 2.53%, plus the applicable interest rate spread in accordance with the respective debt agreements.
(5)In addition to the amounts listed in the table above, under the Macao Concession, we have committed to spend 30.24 billion patacas (approximately $3.77 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) through 2032 on both capital and operating projects, including 27.80 billion patacas (approximately $3.46 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) in non-gaming projects. We will be required to increase our investment in non-gaming projects by up to 20% in the following year subject to a trigger, namely if Macao’s annual market gross gaming revenue achieves or exceeds 180 billion patacas (approximately $22.42 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022). The 20% increase is subject to a deduction of 4% per year if the revenue trigger occurs on or after 2028 (the sixth year of the term of the Concession). This potential additional investment is estimated to be approximately $700 million. As the exact timing of this spend has not been finalized, these amounts have not been included in the table above.
We are also required to pay a 35% gross gaming revenue special gaming tax and a 5% gross gaming revenue contribution in Macao, which amounts we pay are variable in nature. Under the Concession, however, we are obligated to pay a special annual gaming premium if the average of the gross gaming revenues of our gaming tables and our electrical or mechanical gaming machines, including slot machines, is lower than a certain minimum amount determined by the Macao government; such special premium being the difference between the gaming tax based on the actual gross gaming revenues and that of the specified minimum amount. Based on the maximum number of gaming tables and gaming machines we are currently authorized to operate, if the monthly special gaming taxes paid during the year aggregates to less than 4.50 billion patacas (approximately $561 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022), we would be required to pay the difference as the special annual gaming premium.
(6)We are required to pay an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable portion, which is based on the number and type of gaming tables and gaming machines we operate. Based on the gaming tables and gaming machines (which is at the maximum number of tables and machines currently allowed by the Macao government) in operation as of January 1, 2023, the annual premium payable to the Macao government is approximately $41 million for the years ending December 31, 2023 through December 31, 2027, respectively, and $203 million in aggregate thereafter through the termination of the Concession in December 2032.
(7)Under the Handover Record, we are required to make annual payments of 750 patacas per square meter for the first three years and 2,500 patacas per square meter for the following seven years (approximately $93 and $311, respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022). The annual payment of 750 patacas per square meter will be adjusted with the Macao average price index of the corresponding preceding year for years two and three and the annual payment of 2,500 patacas per square meter will be adjusted with the Macao average price index of the corresponding preceding year for years five through ten.
(8)We are party to certain operating leases for real estate, which primarily include $319 million related to long-term land leases in Macao with an anticipated lease term of 50 years and $16 million related to a long-term land lease in Las Vegas with a 40-year lease term. See "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 16 — Leases" for further details on operating leases.

63

Table of Contents
(9)Mall deposits consist of refundable security deposits received from mall tenants.
(10)Primarily consists of all other non-cancellable contractual obligations and primarily relates to certain hotel management and service agreements, as described below. The amounts exclude open purchase orders with our suppliers that have not yet been received as these agreements generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust terms based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. Some of our hotel properties operate pursuant to management agreements with various experienced third-party hotel operators (management companies), whereby the management company controls the day-to-day operations of each of these hotels, and we are granted limited approval rights with respect to certain of the management company’s actions. The non-cancelable period of our management agreements ranges from 14 to 40 years with various extension provisions and some with early termination options. Each management company receives a base management fee, generally a percentage of revenue as defined. There are also monthly fees for certain support services and some also include incentive fees based on attaining certain financial thresholds.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities, nor have we engaged in any derivative transactions other than foreign currency swaps. Refer to "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 11 — Derivative Instruments" for outstanding foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2022.

Restrictions on Distributions
We are a parent company with limited business operations. Our main asset is the stock and ownership interests of our subsidiaries. Certain of our debt instruments contain restrictions that, among other things, limit the ability of certain subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, issue disqualified stock or equity interests, pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase equity interests or certain indebtedness, create certain liens, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, enter into certain mergers or consolidations or sell certain of our assets without prior approval of the lenders or noteholders.
Under the Concession, although not a restriction, we have to provide a five-day prior notification to the Macao government for any major financial decisions exceeding 10% of the share capital of VML.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include the discussions of our business strategies and expectations concerning future operations, margins, profitability, liquidity and capital resources. In addition, in certain portions included in this report, the words: “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends” and similar expressions, as they relate to our Company or management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you any forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors beyond our control, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the risks associated with:
•the uncertainty of the extent, duration and effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the response of governments and other third parties, including government-mandated property closures, increased operational regulatory requirements or travel restrictions, on our business, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and development prospects;
•our ability to maintain our Concession in Macao and gaming license in Singapore;
•our ability to invest in future growth opportunities;
•the ability to execute our previously announced capital expenditure programs in Singapore, and produce future returns;

64

Table of Contents
•general economic and business conditions internationally, which may impact levels of disposable income, consumer spending, group meeting business, pricing of hotel rooms and retail and mall tenant sales;
•disruptions or reductions in travel and our operations due to natural or man-made disasters, pandemics, epidemics or outbreaks of infectious or contagious diseases, political instability, civil unrest, terrorist activity or war;
•the uncertainty of consumer behavior related to discretionary spending and vacationing at our Integrated Resorts in Macao and Singapore;
•the extensive regulations to which we are subject and the costs of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations;
•new developments and construction projects and ventures, including development at our existing properties (for example, development at our Cotai Strip properties and the MBS Expansion Project);
•regulatory policies in China or other countries in which our patrons reside, or where we have operations, including visa restrictions limiting the number of visits or the length of stay for visitors from China to Macao, restrictions on foreign currency exchange or importation of currency, and the judicial enforcement of gaming debts;
•the possibility that the laws and regulations of mainland China become applicable to our operations in Macao and Hong Kong;
•the possibility that economic, political and legal developments in Macao adversely affect our Macao operations, or that there is a change in the manner in which regulatory oversight is conducted in Macao;
•our leverage, debt service and debt covenant compliance, including the pledge of certain of our assets (other than our equity interests in our subsidiaries) as security for our indebtedness and ability to refinance our debt obligations as they come due or to obtain sufficient funding for our planned, or any future, development projects;
•fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and the possibility of increased expense as a result;
•increased competition for labor and materials due to planned construction projects in Macao and Singapore and quota limits on the hiring of foreign workers;
•our ability to compete for limited management and labor resources in Macao and Singapore, and policies of those governments may also affect our ability to employ imported managers or labor from other countries;
•our dependence upon properties primarily in Macao and Singapore for all of our cash flow and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distribution payments to us;
•the passage of new legislation and receipt of governmental approvals for our operations in Macao and Singapore and other jurisdictions where we are planning to operate;
•the ability of our insurance coverage to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer and the potential for our insurance costs to increase in the future;
•our ability to collect gaming receivables from our credit players;
•the collectability of our outstanding loan receivable;
•our dependence on chance and theoretical win rates;
•fraud and cheating;
•our ability to establish and protect our intellectual property rights;
•reputational risk related to the license of certain of our trademarks;
•the possibility that our securities may be prohibited from being traded in the U.S. securities market under the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act;

65

Table of Contents
•conflicts of interest that arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors and officers of SCL;
•government regulation of the casino industry (as well as new laws and regulations and changes to existing laws and regulations), including gaming license regulation, the requirement for certain beneficial owners of our securities to be found suitable by gaming authorities, the legalization of gaming in other jurisdictions and regulation of gaming on the internet;
•increased competition in Macao, including recent and upcoming increases in hotel rooms, meeting and convention space, retail space, potential additional gaming licenses and online gaming;
•the popularity of Macao and Singapore as convention and trade show destinations;
•new taxes, changes to existing tax rates or proposed changes in tax legislation;
•the continued services of our key officers;
•any potential conflict between the interests of our Principal Stockholders and us;
•labor actions and other labor problems;
•our failure to maintain the integrity of our information and information systems or comply with applicable privacy and data security requirements and regulations could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business;
•the completion of infrastructure projects in Macao;
•limitations on the transfers of cash to and from our subsidiaries, limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi;
•the outcome of any ongoing and future litigation; and
•potential negative impacts from environmental, social and governance and sustainability matters.
All future written and verbal forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect us. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by federal securities laws.
Investors and others should note we announce material financial information using our investor relations website (https://investor.sands.com), our company website, SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues.
In addition, we post certain information regarding SCL, a subsidiary of Las Vegas Sands Corp. with ordinary shares listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from time to time on our company website and our investor relations website. It is possible the information we post regarding SCL could be deemed to be material information.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and judgments are based on historical information, information currently available to us and on various other assumptions management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates and we may change our estimates and assumptions in future evaluations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe the critical accounting policies discussed below affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

66

Table of Contents
Provision for Expected Credit Losses
We maintain a provision for expected credit losses on casino, hotel and mall receivables and regularly evaluate the balances. We apply standard reserve percentages to aged account balances, which are grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and days past due. The reserve percentages are based on estimated loss rates supported by historical observed default rates over the expected life of the receivable and are adjusted for forward-looking information. We also specifically analyze the collectability of each account with a balance over a specified dollar amount, based upon the age of the account, the customer's financial condition, collection history and any other known information and adjust the aforementioned reserve with the results from the individual reserve analysis. We also monitor regional and global economic conditions and forecasts, which include the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, in our evaluation of the adequacy of the recorded reserves.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, there continued to be a delay in payments on casino receivables due to the inability of patrons to travel to our properties or to accomplish financial transactions due to the travel restrictions caused by the COVID-19 Pandemic. The collection of casino receivables has also been impacted by liquidity issues faced by certain patrons also stemming from the COVID-19 Pandemic. We have increased the provision for credit losses where appropriate to account for the expected credit losses due to the COVID-19 Pandemic. We continue to closely monitor any delays in payments due to the COVID-19 Pandemic and will increase the provision accordingly depending on the facts and circumstances. Although we believe the provision on our casino receivables is adequate as of December 31, 2022, it is possible our provisions could increase if we experience further delays on payments from patrons.
Account balances are written off against the provision when we believe it is probable the receivable will not be recovered. Credit or marker play was 9.8% and 15.8% of table games play at our Macao properties and Marina Bay Sands, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2022. Our provision for casino credit losses was 61.6% and 72.5% of gross casino receivables as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The credit extended to gaming promoters can be offset by the commissions payable to said gaming promoters, which is considered in the establishment of the provision for credit losses. Our provision for credit losses from our hotel and other receivables is not material.
Litigation Accrual
We are subject to various claims and legal actions. We estimate the accruals for these claims and legal actions based on all relevant facts and circumstances currently available and include such accruals in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets when it is determined such contingencies are both probable and reasonably estimable.
Property and Equipment
As of December 31, 2022, we had net property and equipment of $11.45 billion, representing 52.0% of our total assets. We depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are based on the nature of the assets as well as current operating strategy and legal considerations, such as contractual life. Future events, such as property expansions, property developments, new competition or new regulations, could result in a change in the manner in which we use certain assets requiring a change in the estimated useful lives of such assets. The estimated useful lives of assets are periodically reviewed and adjusted as necessary on a prospective basis.
For assets to be held and used (including projects under development), fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an indicator of impairment exists, we first group our assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities (the "asset group"). Secondly, we estimate the undiscounted future cash flows directly associated with and expected to arise from the completion, use and eventual disposition of such asset group. We estimate the undiscounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of the primary asset within the asset group. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is measured based on fair value compared to carrying value, with fair value typically based on a discounted cash flow model. If an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs.

67

Table of Contents
To estimate the undiscounted cash flows of our asset groups, we consider all potential cash flows scenarios, which are probability weighted based on management's estimates given current conditions. Determining the recoverability of our asset groups is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including estimated cash flows, probability weighting of potential scenarios, costs to complete construction for assets under development, growth rates and future market conditions, among others. Future changes to our estimates and assumptions based upon changes in macro-economic factors, regulatory environments, operating results or management's intentions may result in future changes to the recoverability of our asset groups.
For assets to be held for sale, the fixed assets (the "disposal group") are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Losses are recognized for any initial or subsequent write-down to fair value less costs to sell, while gains are recognized for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell, but not in excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized. Any gains or losses not previously recognized that result from the sale of the disposal group shall be recognized at the date of sale. Fixed assets are not depreciated while classified as held for sale.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (including federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We record income taxes under the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and attributable to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
Our foreign and U.S. tax rate differential reflects the fact that U.S. tax rates are higher than the statutory tax rates in Singapore and Macao of 17% and 12%, respectively. In August 2018, we received an exemption from Macao's corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of chance for the period of January 1, 2019 through June 26, 2022. In September 2022, we received an additional extension of this exemption for the period June 27, 2022 through December 31, 2022. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government in April 2019, effective through June 26, 2022, providing for payments as a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits, namely a payment of 38 million patacas (approximately $5 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) for each of the years 2021 and 2020, each payment to be made on or before January 31 of the following year, and a payment of 18 million patacas (approximately $2 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) for the period between January 1, 2022 through June 26, 2022, to be paid on or before July 26, 2022. In December 2022, we requested a corporate tax exemption on profits generated by the operation of casino games in Macao for the new Concession period effective from January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2032, or for a period of corporate tax exemption that the Chief Executive of Macao may deem more appropriate. We are evaluating the timing of an application for a new shareholder dividend tax agreement. There is no certainty either of these tax arrangements will be granted.
Accounting standards regarding income taxes require a reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance, if based on the available evidence, it is "more-likely-than-not" such assets will not be realized. Accordingly, the need to establish valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed at each reporting period based on a "more-likely-than-not" realization threshold. This assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, our experience with operating loss and tax credit carryforwards not expiring and tax planning strategies.
We recorded a valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of certain foreign jurisdictions of $475 million and $416 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets of our U.S. operations of $3.61 billion and $4.62 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Management will reassess the realization of deferred tax assets each reporting period and consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, sources of taxable income and tax planning strategies. To the extent the financial results of these operations improve and it becomes "more-likely-than-not" the deferred tax assets are realizable, we will be able to reduce the valuation allowance in the period such determination is made, as appropriate.

68

Table of Contents
Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Accounting standards regarding uncertainty in income taxes provides a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is "more-likely-than-not" the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely, based solely on the technical merits, of being sustained on examinations. We recorded unrecognized tax benefits of $136 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and for which actual outcomes may be different.
Our major tax jurisdictions are the U.S., Macao, and Singapore. We could be subject to examination for tax years beginning in 2018 in Macao and Singapore and tax years 2010 through 2015 and 2019 through 2021 in the U.S.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See related disclosure at "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Recent Accounting Pronouncements."

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

['s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.
Cash Flows — Operating Activities
Table games play at our properties is conducted on a cash and credit basis, while slot machine play is primarily conducted on a cash basis. Our rooms, food and beverage and other non-gaming revenues are conducted primarily on a cash basis and to a lesser extent as a trade receivable. Operating cash flows are generally affected by changes in operating income, accounts receivable, gaming related liabilities and interest payments. For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operations was $944 million, an increase of $701 million compared to $243 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in cash used for operations was primarily due to cash tax payments inclusive of, and primarily due to, the gain on sale of the Las Vegas Operations totaling $612 million, and our Macao operations generating increased operating losses and working capital requirements due to the decrease in visitation resulting from COVID-19 travel restrictions across key China markets in 2022 and Macao experiencing COVID-19 cases at various times throughout 2022. This cash usage was partially offset by operating cash flows provided by Marina Bay Sands due to the acceleration of visitation and elimination of restrictions in Singapore over the course of 2022.
Cash Flows — Investing Activities
Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2022, totaled $651 million. Included in this amount was $348 million at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore and $243 million for construction and development activities in Macao, which consisted of $175 million for The Londoner Macao, $52 million for The Venetian Macao, $9 million for The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, $4 million for Sands Macao and $3 million for The Parisian Macao. Additionally, this amount included $60 million for corporate and other.

59

Table of Contents
Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2021, totaled $828 million, including $653 million in Macao, which consisted of $551 million for The Londoner Macao, $71 million for The Venetian Macao and $19 million for The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao primarily for The Grand Suites at Four Seasons, $7 million from Sands Macao, $4 million for The Parisian Macao and $1 million for Ferry and Other; $148 million at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore; and $27 million for corporate and other.
Cash Flows — Financing Activities
Net cash flows generated from financing activities were $6.15 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was primarily attributable to the net proceeds from the sale of the Las Vegas Operating Properties of $4.89 billion and $1.20 billion from the drawdown of our SCL revolving facility. These items were partially offset by $66 million in repayments on long-term debt and $11 million in deferred offering costs relating to obtaining LVSC Revolving Facility lender consents to consummate the Las Vegas Sale and the covenant waiver obtained on the 2018 SCL Credit Facility.
Net cash flows generated from financing activities were $863 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was primarily attributable to net proceeds of $756 million, received from the drawdown of our SCL revolving facility, and transactions with discontinued operations. These items were partially offset by a $131 million make-whole premium for the early redemption of the SCL senior note due 2023 and $38 million in financing costs related to the issuance of the new unsecured notes at SCL and the covenant waivers obtained on the LVSC Revolving Facility, 2018 SCL Credit Facility and 2012 Singapore Credit Facility.
As of December 31, 2022, we had $2.48 billion available for borrowing under our U.S., Macao and Singapore revolving facilities, net of letters of credit. Additionally, we had $2.74 billion available for borrowing under the 2012 Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility to finance construction costs incurred in connection with the MBS Expansion Project.
Cash Flows — Discontinued Operations
Cash flows from discontinued operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, were primarily attributable to $4.89 billion in net proceeds from the Las Vegas Sale, which were transferred to continuing operations.
Capital Financing Overview
We fund our development projects primarily through borrowings from our debt instruments (see "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...
