================================================================================
CIK: 0001140536
Company Name: WILLIS TOWERS WATSON PLC
Filing Date: 2023-02-24
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 12:34:56
================================================================================

Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

At December 31, 2022 and 2021, we were in compliance with all financial covenants.

Fiduciary Funds

As an intermediary, we hold funds, generally in a fiduciary capacity, for the account of third parties, typically as the result of premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers and claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. We also hold funds for clients of our benefits account businesses. These fiduciary funds are included in fiduciary assets on our consolidated balance sheets. We present the equal and corresponding fiduciary liabilities related to these fiduciary funds representing amounts or claims due to our clients or premiums due on their behalf to insurers on our consolidated balance sheets.

Fiduciary funds are generally required to be kept in regulated bank accounts subject to guidelines which emphasize capital preservation and liquidity; such funds are not available to service the Company’s debt or for other corporate purposes. Notwithstanding the legal relationships with clients and insurers, the Company is entitled to retain investment income earned on certain of these fiduciary funds in accordance with industry custom and practice and, in some cases, as supported by agreements with insureds.

At December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had fiduciary funds of $3.6 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, of which $945 million and $719 million, respectively, are attributable to our Willis Re business.

Share Repurchase Program

The Company is authorized to repurchase shares, by way of redemption or otherwise, and will consider whether to do so from time to time, based on many factors, including market conditions. There are no expiration dates for our repurchase plans or programs.

On July 26, 2021, the board of directors approved a $1.0 billion increase to the existing share repurchase program, which was previously at $500 million. Additionally, on September 16, 2021, the board of directors approved a $4.0 billion increase to the existing share repurchase program, and on May 25, 2022, approved a $1.0 billion increase to the existing share repurchase program. These increases brought the total approved authorization to $6.5 billion. See Part II, Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the Company’s share repurchase program.

At December 31, 2022, approximately $1.3 billion remained on the current repurchase authority. The maximum number of shares that could be repurchased based on the closing price of our ordinary shares on December 31, 2022 of $244.58 was 5,489,619.

54

The following table presents specified information about the Company’s repurchases of ordinary shares for the year ended December 31, 2022:

-------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
 Year endedDecember 31, 2022
Shares repurchased 15,729,085
Average price per share $224.42
Aggregate repurchase cost (excluding broker costs) $3.5 billion

Dividends

Total cash dividends of $369 million were paid during the year ended December 31, 2022. In February 2023, the board of directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.84 per share ($3.36 per share annualized rate), which will be paid on or around April 17, 2023 to shareholders of record as of March 31, 2023.

Capital Commitments

The Company’s capital expenditures for fixed assets and software for internal use were $138 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Capital expenditures for fixed assets and software for internal use, which include expenditures under our Transformation program, are expected to be in the range of $225 million to $250 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. We expect cash from operations to adequately provide for these cash needs.

Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information

As of December 31, 2022, WTW has issued the following debt securities (the ‘notes’):

a)
Willis North America Inc. (‘Willis North America’) has approximately $3.7 billion senior notes outstanding, of which $650 million were issued on May 16, 2017, $1.0 billion were issued on September 10, 2018, $1.0 billion were issued on September 10, 2019, $275 million were issued on May 29, 2020, and $750 million were issued on May 19, 2022; and

b)
Trinity Acquisition plc has approximately $1.1 billion senior notes outstanding, of which $525 million were issued on August 15, 2013 and $550 million were issued on March 22, 2016, and a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, on which no balance was outstanding at December 31, 2022.

The following table presents a summary of the entities that issue each note and those wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company that guarantee each respective note on a joint and several basis as of December 31, 2022. These subsidiaries are all consolidated by Willis Towers Watson plc (the ‘parent company’) and together with the parent company comprise the ‘Obligor group’.

--------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- -------------------------------
Entity Trinity Acquisition plc Notes Willis North America Inc. Notes
Willis Towers Watson plc Guarantor Guarantor
Trinity Acquisition plc Issuer Guarantor
Willis North America Inc. Guarantor Issuer
Willis Netherlands Holdings B.V. Guarantor Guarantor
Willis Investment UK Holdings Limited Guarantor Guarantor
TA I Limited Guarantor Guarantor
Willis Group Limited Guarantor Guarantor
Willis Towers Watson Sub Holdings Unlimited Company Guarantor Guarantor
Willis Towers Watson UK Holdings Limited Guarantor Guarantor

The notes issued by Willis North America and Trinity Acquisition plc:

•
rank equally with all of the issuer’s existing and future unsubordinated and unsecured debt;

•
rank equally with the issuer’s guarantee of all of the existing senior debt of the Company and the other guarantors, including any debt under the Revolving Credit Facility;

•
are senior in right of payment to all of the issuer’s future subordinated debt; and

•
are effectively subordinated to all of the issuer’s secured debt to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt.

All other subsidiaries of the parent company are non-guarantor subsidiaries (‘the non-guarantor subsidiaries’).

55

Each member of the Obligor group has only a stockholder’s claim on the assets of the non-guarantor subsidiaries. This stockholder’s claim is junior to the claims that creditors have against those non-guarantor subsidiaries. Holders of the notes will only be creditors of the Obligor group and not creditors of the non-guarantor subsidiaries. As a result, all of the existing and future liabilities of the non-guarantor subsidiaries, including any claims of trade creditors and preferred stockholders, will be structurally senior to the notes. As of and for the periods ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the non-guarantor subsidiaries represented substantially all of the total assets and accounted for substantially all of the total revenue of the Company prior to consolidating adjustments. The non-guarantor subsidiaries have other liabilities, including contingent liabilities that may be significant. Each indenture does not contain any limitations on the amount of additional debt that the Obligor group and the non-guarantor subsidiaries may incur. The amounts of this debt could be substantial, and this debt may be debt of the non-guarantor subsidiaries, in which case this debt would be effectively senior in right of payment to the notes.

The notes are obligations exclusively of the Obligor group. Substantially all of the Obligor group’s operations are conducted through its non-guarantor subsidiaries. Therefore, the Obligor group’s ability to service its debt, including the notes, is dependent upon the net cash flows of its non-guarantor subsidiaries and their ability to distribute those net cash flows as dividends, loans or other payments to the Obligor group. Certain laws restrict the ability of these non-guarantor subsidiaries to pay dividends and make loans and advances to the Obligor group. In addition, such non-guarantor subsidiaries may enter into contractual arrangements that limit their ability to pay dividends and make loans and advances to the Obligor group.

Intercompany balances and transactions between members of the Obligor group have been eliminated. All intercompany balances and transactions between the Obligor group and the non-guarantor subsidiaries have been presented in the disclosures below on a net presentation basis, rather than a gross basis, as this better reflects the nature of the intercompany positions and presents the funding or funded position that is to be received or owed. The intercompany balances and transactions between the Obligor group and non-guarantor subsidiaries, presented below, relate to a number of items including loan funding for acquisitions and other purposes, transfers of surplus cash between subsidiary companies, funding provided for working capital purposes, settlement of expense accounts, transactions related to share-based payment arrangements and share issuances, intercompany royalty arrangements, intercompany dividends and intercompany interest. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the intercompany balances of the Obligor group with non-guarantor subsidiaries were net receivables of $600 million and $700 million, respectively, and net payables of $10.2 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively.

No balances or transactions of non-guarantor subsidiaries are presented in the disclosures other than the intercompany items noted above.

Presented below is certain summarized financial information for the Obligor group.

----------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ----------------------- - -----
 As of December 31, 2022 As of December 31, 2021
 (in millions)
Total current assets $ 216 $ 243
Total non-current assets 685 862
Total current liabilities 6,916 7,747
Total non-current liabilities 8,212 5,298

----------------------------------------------- --------------------------- -----
 Year endedDecember 31, 2022
 (in millions)
Revenue $ 2,139
Income from operations 1,650
Income from operations before income taxes (i) 1,102
Net income 1,287
Net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson 1,287

(i)
Includes intercompany expense, net of the Obligor group from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $132 million for the year ended December 31, 2022.

56

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

In order to assist readers of our consolidated financial statements in understanding the core operating results that WTW’s management uses to evaluate the business and for financial planning purposes, we present the following non-GAAP measures and their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure:

----------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------
Most Directly Comparable U.S. GAAP Measure Non-GAAP Measure
As reported change Constant currency change
As reported change Organic change
Income from operations/margin Adjusted operating income/margin
Net income/margin Adjusted EBITDA/margin
Net income attributable to WTW Adjusted net income
Diluted earnings per share Adjusted diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations before income taxes Adjusted income before taxes
Provision for income taxes/U.S. GAAP tax rate Adjusted income taxes/tax rate
Net cash from operating activities Free cash flow

The Company believes that these measures are relevant and provide pertinent information widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry to provide a baseline for evaluating and comparing our operating performance, and in the case of free cash flow, our liquidity results.

Within the measures referred to as ‘adjusted’, we adjust for significant items which will not be settled in cash, or which we believe to be items that are not core to our current or future operations. These items include the following:

•
Income and loss from discontinued operations, net of tax – Adjustment to remove the after-tax income or loss from discontinued operations and the after-tax gain attributable to the divestiture of our Willis Re business.

•
Restructuring costs and transaction and transformation, net – Management believes it is appropriate to adjust for restructuring costs and transaction and transformation, net when they relate to a specific significant program with a defined set of activities and costs that are not expected to continue beyond a defined period of time, or significant acquisition-related transaction expenses. We believe the adjustment is necessary to present how the Company is performing, both now and in the future when the incurrence of these costs will have concluded. Transaction and transformation, net in 2021 includes the income receipt related to the termination of the then-proposed Aon transaction.

•
Impairment – Adjustment to remove the impairment related to the net assets of our Russian business that are held outside of our Russian entities.

•
Gains and losses on disposals of operations – Adjustment to remove the gains or losses resulting from disposed operations that have not been classified as discontinued operations.

•
Pension settlement and curtailment gains and losses – Adjustment to remove significant pension settlement and curtailment gains and losses to better present how the Company is performing.

•
Provisions for significant litigation – We will include provisions for litigation matters which we believe are not representative of our core business operations. These amounts are presented net of insurance and other recovery receivables.

•
Tax effect of statutory rate changes – Relates to the incremental tax expense or benefit from significant statutory income tax rate changes enacted in material jurisdictions in which we operate.

•
Tax effect of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (‘CARES’) Act – Relates to the incremental tax expense or benefit, primarily from the BEAT, generated from electing or changing elections of certain income tax provisions available under the CARES Act.

•
Tax effect of internal reorganizations – Relates to the U.S. income tax expense resulting from the completion of internal reorganizations of the ownership of certain businesses that reduced the investments held by our U.S.-controlled subsidiaries.

These non-GAAP measures are not defined in the same manner by all companies and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the information contained within our consolidated financial statements.

57

Constant Currency Change and Organic Change

We evaluate our revenue on an as reported (U.S. GAAP), constant currency and organic basis. We believe presenting constant currency and organic information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our comparable results, consistent with how we evaluate our performance internally.

•
Constant Currency Change - Represents the year-over-year change in revenue excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. To calculate this impact, the prior year local currency results are first translated using the current year monthly average exchange rates. The change is calculated by comparing the prior year revenue, translated at the current year monthly average exchange rates, to the current year as reported revenue, for the same period. We believe constant currency measures provide useful information to investors because they provide transparency to performance by excluding the effects that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on period-over-period comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets.

•
Organic Change - Excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as described above and the period-over-period impact of acquisitions and divestitures on current-year revenue. We believe that excluding transaction-related items from our U.S. GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information to our investors, and it is important in illustrating what our core operating results would have been had we not included these transaction-related items, since the nature, size and number of these transaction-related items can vary from period to period.

The constant currency and organic change results, and a reconciliation from the reported results for consolidated revenue, are included in the ‘Consolidated Revenue (Continuing Operations)’ section within this Form 10-K. These measures are also reported by segment in the ‘Segment Revenue’ section within this Form 10-K.

A reconciliation of the reported change to the constant currency and organic change for the year ended December 31, 2022 from the year ended December 31, 2021 is as follows. The components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

------- ------------------------ ----- -------- - -------- ------ -------- ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ------- ------------ ------ --
 Components of Revenue Change
 As Less: Constant Less:
 Years ended December 31, Reported Currency Currency Acquisitions/ Organic
 2022 2021 Change Impact Change Divestitures Change
 ($ in millions)
Revenue $ 8,866 $ 8,998 (1)% (4)% 2% (1)% 4%

For the year ended December 31, 2022, our as-reported revenue declined by 1%, primarily as a result of unfavorable foreign currency exchange movement. Adjusting for the impacts of foreign currency and acquisitions and disposals in the calculation of our organic activity, our revenue grew by 4% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase to our organic revenue was driven by both segments.

Adjusted Operating Income/Margin

We consider adjusted operating income/margin to be important financial measures, which are used internally to evaluate and assess our core operations and to benchmark our operating results against our competitors.

Adjusted operating income is defined as income from operations adjusted for impairment, amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and transformation, net and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. Adjusted operating income margin is calculated by dividing adjusted operating income by revenue.

58

Reconciliations of income from operations to adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows:

----------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- - ---- - ----- -
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 ($ in millions)
Income from operations $ 1,178 $ 2,202
Adjusted for certain items:
Impairment 81 —
Amortization 312 369
Restructuring costs 99 26
Transaction and transformation, net 181 (806 )
Adjusted operating income $ 1,851 $ 1,791
Income from operations margin 13.3 % 24.5 %
Adjusted operating income margin 20.9 % 19.9 %

Adjusted operating income increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $1.9 billion, from $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. This increase resulted from salaries and benefits, as a percentage of revenue, reducing from 58% to 57% on an as- reported basis, primarily related to the reduction in discretionary and incentive costs.

Adjusted EBITDA/Margin

We consider adjusted EBITDA/margin to be important financial measures, which are used internally to evaluate and assess our core operations, to benchmark our operating results against our competitors and to evaluate and measure our performance-based compensation plans.

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income adjusted for income from discontinued operations, net of tax, provision for income taxes, interest expense, impairment, depreciation and amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and transformation, net, gains and losses on disposals of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing adjusted EBITDA by revenue.

Reconciliations of net income to adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows:

------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ ----- - ---- - ------ -
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 ($ in millions)
NET INCOME $ 1,024 $ 4,236
Loss/(income) from discontinued operations, net of tax 40 (2,080 )
Provision for income taxes 194 536
Interest expense 208 211
Impairment 81 —
Depreciation 255 281
Amortization 312 369
Restructuring costs 99 26
Transaction and transformation, net 181 (806 )
Gain on disposal of operations (7 ) (379 )
Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,387 $ 2,394
Net income margin 11.5 % 47.1 %
Adjusted EBITDA margin 26.9 % 26.6 %

Adjusted EBITDA for both the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $2.4 billion, a decrease of $7 million. This decrease was due to lower pension income, partially offset by salaries and benefits, as a percentage of revenue, reducing from 58% to 57% on an as-reported basis, primarily related to the reduction in discretionary and incentive costs in the current year.

Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share

Adjusted net income is defined as net income attributable to WTW adjusted for income from discontinued operations, net of tax, impairment, amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and transformation, net, gains and losses on disposals of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results and the related tax effect of those adjustments and the tax effects of internal reorganizations. This measure is used solely for the purpose of calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share.

59

Adjusted diluted earnings per share is defined as adjusted net income divided by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares, diluted. Adjusted diluted earnings per share is used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations and to benchmark our operating results against our competitors.

Reconciliations of net income attributable to WTW to adjusted diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows:

------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------- ----- - ---- - ------ -
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 ($ and weighted-average shares in millions)
NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO WTW $ 1,009 $ 4,222
Adjusted for certain items:
Loss/(income) from discontinued operations, net of tax 40 (2,080 )
Impairment 81 —
Amortization 312 369
Restructuring costs 99 26
Transaction and transformation, net 181 (806 )
Gain on disposal of operations (7 ) (379 )
Tax effect on certain items listed above (i) (188 ) 103
Tax effect of statutory rate change — 40
Tax effect of the CARES Act (24 ) —
Tax effect of internal reorganizations 4 —
 $ 1,507 $ 1,495
Weighted-average ordinary shares — diluted 112 129
Diluted earnings per share $ 8.98 $ 32.78
Adjusted for certain items (ii):
Loss/(income) from discontinued operations, net of tax 0.36 (16.15 )
Impairment 0.72 —
Amortization 2.78 2.86
Restructuring costs 0.88 0.20
Transaction and transformation, net 1.61 (6.26 )
Gain on disposal of operations (0.06 ) (2.94 )
Tax effect on certain items listed above (i) (1.67 ) 0.79
Tax effect of statutory rate change — 0.31
Tax effect of the CARES Act (0.21 ) —
Tax effect of internal reorganizations 0.04 —
Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ 13.41 $ 11.60

(i)
The tax effect was calculated using an effective tax rate for each item.

(ii)
Per share values and totals may differ due to rounding.

Our adjusted diluted earnings per share increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to a lower weighted-average outstanding share count attributable to our share repurchase activity in the current year.

Adjusted Income Before Taxes and Adjusted Income Taxes/Tax Rate

Adjusted income before taxes is defined as income from operations before income taxes adjusted for impairment, amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and transformation, net, gains and losses on disposals of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. Adjusted income before taxes is used solely for the purpose of calculating the adjusted income tax rate.

Adjusted income taxes/tax rate is defined as the provision for income taxes adjusted for taxes on certain items of impairment, amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and transformation, net, gains and losses on disposals of operations, the tax effects of internal reorganizations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results, divided by adjusted income before taxes. Adjusted income taxes is used solely for the purpose of calculating the adjusted income tax rate.

60

Management believes that the adjusted income tax rate presents a rate that is more closely aligned to the rate that we would incur if not for the reduction of pre-tax income for the adjusted items and the tax effects of internal reorganizations, which are not core to our current and future operations.

Reconciliations of income from continuing operations before income taxes to adjusted income before taxes and provision for income taxes to adjusted income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows:

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- - ---- - ----- -
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 ($ in millions)
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME TAXES $ 1,258 $ 2,692
Adjusted for certain items:
Impairment 81 —
Amortization 312 369
Restructuring costs 99 26
Transaction and transformation, net 181 (806 )
Gain on disposal of operations (7 ) (379 )
Adjusted income before taxes $ 1,924 $ 1,902

Provision for income taxes $ 194 $ 536
Tax effect on certain items listed above (i) 188 (103 )
Tax effect of statutory rate change — (40 )
Tax effect of the CARES Act 24 —
Tax effect of internal reorganizations (4 ) —
Adjusted income taxes $ 402 $ 393

U.S. GAAP tax rate 15.4 % 19.9 %
Adjusted income tax rate 20.9 % 20.7 %

(i)
The tax effect was calculated using an effective tax rate for each item.

Our U.S. GAAP tax rates were 15.4% and 19.9% for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The current-year effective tax rate includes a $34 million tax benefit associated with amending the Company’s U.S. federal income tax returns for tax years 2019 and 2020, primarily related to a reduction in the BEAT. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes a $250 million estimated tax expense related to the income receipt associated with the termination of our then-proposed combination with Aon, as well as a $40 million tax expense related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities associated with an increase in the U.K. tax rate from 19% to 25%.

Our adjusted income tax rates were 20.9% and 20.7% for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow is defined as cash flows from operating activities less cash used to purchase fixed assets and software for internal use. Free cash flow is a liquidity measure and is not meant to represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures.

Management believes that free cash flow presents the core operating performance and cash generating capabilities of our business operations.

Reconciliations of cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ---- - ---- - ----- -
 Years ended December 31,
 2022 2021
 (in millions)
Cash flows from operating activities $ 812 $ 2,061
Less: Additions to fixed assets and software for internal use (138 ) (148 )
Free cash flow $ 674 $ 1,913

61

The unfavorable movement in free cash flows in the current year was due primarily to the prior-year income receipt of $1 billion related to the termination of the then-proposed Aon transaction, tax payments in 2022 related to this income receipt, and the elimination of Willis Re cash generation following the divestiture.

Additionally, the free cash flow for the prior year presented includes the operating cash flows of Willis Re through December 1, 2021. Willis Re’s operating cash flows approximate its pre-tax income and any adjustments for working capital movements (see Note 3 — Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information), the absence of which is expected to be partially made up by reimbursements through the TSA.

Critical Accounting Estimates

These consolidated financial statements conform to U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated based on available information and experience. Because of the use of estimates inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. The areas that we believe include critical accounting estimates are revenue recognition, costs to fulfill under our broking contracts, valuation of billed and unbilled receivables from clients, income taxes, commitments, contingencies and accrued liabilities, pension assumptions, and goodwill and intangible assets. The critical accounting estimates discussed below involve making difficult, subjective or complex accounting estimates that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These critical accounting estimates require us to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate or assumption. Different estimates that we could have used, or changes in estimates that are reasonably likely to occur, may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Revenue Recognition

We use significant estimates related to revenue recognition most commonly during our estimation of the transaction prices or where we recognize revenue over time on a proportional performance basis. A brief description of these policies and estimates is included below:

Estimation of transaction prices — This process occurs most frequently in certain broking transactions. In situations in which our fees are not fixed but are variable, we must estimate the likely commission per policy, taking into account the likelihood of cancellation before the end of the policy. For Medicare broking and Affinity arrangements, the commissions to which we will be entitled can vary based on the underlying individual insurance policies that are placed. For Medicare broking in particular, we base the estimates of transaction prices on supportable evidence from an analysis of past transactions, and only include amounts that are probable of being received or not refunded (referred to as applying ‘constraint’ under ASC 606, Revenue From Contracts With Customers). In our direct-to-consumer Medicare broking arrangements, the estimate of the total renewal commissions that will be received over the lifetime of the policy requires significant judgment, and will vary based on product type, estimated commission rates, the expected lives of the respective policies and other factors. The Company has applied an actuarial model to account for these uncertainties, which is updated periodically based on actual experience. Each of these processes result in us estimating a transaction price that may be significantly lower than the ultimate amount of commissions we may collect. The transaction price is then adjusted over time as we receive confirmation of our remuneration through receipt of commissions, or as other information becomes available.

Proportional performance basis over time recognition — Where we recognize revenue on a proportional performance basis, primarily in our consulting and outsourced administration arrangements, the amount we recognize is affected by a number of factors that can change the estimated amount of work required to complete the project, such as the staffing on the engagement and/or the level of client participation. Our periodic engagement evaluations require us to make judgments and estimates regarding the overall profitability and stages of project completion that, in turn, affect how we recognize revenue. We recognize a loss on an engagement when estimated revenue to be received for that engagement is less than the total estimated costs associated with the engagement. Losses are recognized in the period in which the loss becomes probable and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable.

Costs to Fulfill —Broking Contracts

For our broking business, the Company must estimate the fulfillment costs incurred during the pre-placement of the broking contracts. These judgments include the following:

•
which activities in the pre-placement process should be eligible for capitalization;

•
the amount of time and effort expended on those pre-placement activities;

•
the amount of payroll and related costs eligible for capitalization; and,

•
the monthly or quarterly timing of underlying insurance and reinsurance policy inception dates.

62

Valuation of Billed and Unbilled Receivables from Clients

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect estimated losses resulting from a client’s failure to pay for the services after the services have been rendered, which are recorded in other operating expenses. We also maintain allowances related to our unbilled receivables for such items as expected realization or client disputes, the related provision for which is recorded as a reduction to revenue. Our allowance policy is based in part on the aging of the billed and unbilled client receivables and has been developed based on our write-off history. However, facts and circumstances, such as the average length of time the receivables are past due, general market conditions at the time we perform the work, current economic trends and our clients’ ability to pay, may cause fluctuations in our valuation of billed and unbilled receivables.

Income Taxes

The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences of events attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating and capital loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of changes in tax rates is recognized for continuing operations in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the change is enacted. Deferred tax assets are reduced through the establishment of a valuation allowance at such time as, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company adjusts valuation allowances to measure deferred tax assets at the amounts considered realizable in future periods, which is assessed at each balance sheet date. In making such determinations, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operating results. We place more reliance on evidence that is objectively verifiable.

Commitments, Contingencies and Accrued Liabilities

We have established provisions against various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance and the provision of consulting services in the ordinary course of business. Such provisions cover claims that have been reported but not paid and also claims that have been incurred but not reported. These provisions are established based on actuarial estimates together with individual case reviews and are believed to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice. In certain cases, where a range of loss exists, we accrue the minimum amount in the range if no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount.

See Note 15 — Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8 within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Pension Assumptions

We maintain defined benefit pension plans for employees in several countries, with the most significant defined benefit plans offered in the U.S. and U.K. Our disclosures in Note 13 — Retirement Benefits contain additional information about our other less significant but material retirement plans. Within our critical accounting policy discussion, we have excluded analysis for plans outside of those noted in the description below, as any variance of recorded information based on management’s estimates would be immaterial.

Descriptions of our U.S. and U.K. plans, which comprise 89% of our projected benefit obligations and 92% of our plan assets, are below:

United States

Legacy Willis – This plan was frozen in 2009. Approximately 600 WTW employees in the United States have a frozen accrued benefit under this plan.

WTW Plan – Substantially all U.S. employees are eligible to participate in this plan. Benefits are provided under a stable value pension plan design. The original stable value design came into effect on January 1, 2012. Plan participants prior to July 1, 2017 earn benefits without having to make employee contributions, and all newly-eligible employees after that date are required to contribute 2% of pay on an after-tax basis to participate in the plan.

United Kingdom

Legacy Willis – This plan covers approximately one-fifth of the Legacy Willis employees in the United Kingdom. The plan is now closed to new entrants. New employees in the United Kingdom are offered the opportunity to join a defined contribution plan.

63

Legacy Towers Watson – Benefit accruals earned under the Legacy Watson Wyatt defined benefit plan (predominantly pension benefits) ceased on February 28, 2015, although benefits earned prior to January 1, 2008 retain a link to salary until the employee leaves the Company. Benefit accruals earned under the legacy Towers Perrin defined benefit plan (predominantly lump sum benefits) were frozen on March 31, 2008. All participants now accrue defined contribution benefits.

The determination of the Company’s obligations and annual expense under the plans is based on a number of assumptions that, given the longevity of the plans, are long-term in focus. A change in one or a combination of these assumptions could have a material impact on our projected benefit obligation. However, certain of these changes, such as changes in the discount rates and other actuarial assumptions, are not recognized immediately in net income, but are instead recorded in other comprehensive income. The accumulated gains and losses not yet recognized in net income are amortized into net income as a component of the net periodic benefit cost/(income) over the average remaining service period or average remaining life expectancy, as appropriate, of the plan’s participants to the extent that the net gains or losses as of the beginning of the year exceed 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation.

WTW considers several factors prior to the start of each fiscal year when determining the appropriate annual assumptions, including economic forecasts, relevant benchmarks, historical trends, portfolio composition and peer company comparisons. These assumptions, used to determine our pension liabilities and pension expense, are reviewed annually by senior management and changed when appropriate. A discount rate will be changed annually if underlying rates have moved, whereas an expected long-term return on assets will be changed less frequently as longer-term trends in asset returns emerge or long-term target asset allocations are revised. To calculate the discount rate, we use the granular approach to determining service cost and interest cost. The expected rate of return assumptions for all plans are supported by an analysis of the weighted-average yield expected to be achieved with the anticipated makeup of investments. We have allowed for actual and known inflation in preparing our estimates. Other material assumptions include rates of participant mortality, and the expected long-term rates of compensation and pension increases.

Funding is based on actuarially determined contributions and is limited to amounts that are currently deductible for tax purposes, or as agreed to with the plan trustees for the U.K. plans. Since funding calculations are based on different measurements than those used for accounting purposes, pension contributions are not equal to net periodic benefit cost.

We recorded a combined $161 million net periodic benefit income for our U.S. and U.K. plans for the year ended December 31, 2022. For the U.S. and U.K. plans, the following table presents our estimated net periodic benefit income for 2023 and the impact to both plans of a 0.25% increase and decrease to both the expected return on assets (‘EROA’) and the discount rate assumptions; and the projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2022 and the impact of a 0.25% increase and decrease to the discount rates:

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- - ------------------------------ --- -- --------------------------------------- --- - -------- - --- -------- - - --- - -- -
 Totals - current estimates Impact of 0.25% change to EROA Impact of 0.25% change to discount rate
 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease
Estimated 2023 (income):
U.S. Plans $ (41 ) $ (9 ) $ 9 $ 1 $ (1 )
U.K. Plans nil $ (7 ) $ 7 $ (1 ) $ 1
Projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2022:
U.S. Plans $ 3,871 N/A N/A $ (96 ) $ 100
U.K. Plans $ 2,435 N/A N/A $ (78 ) $ 84

Economic factors and conditions often affect multiple assumptions simultaneously, and the effects of changes in key assumptions are not necessarily linear.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets — Impairment Review

In applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, amounts assigned to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were based on estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition, with the remainder recorded as goodwill. Intangible assets are initially valued at fair value using generally accepted valuation methods appropriate for the type of intangible asset. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment if indicators of impairment arise. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually as of October 1, and whenever indicators of impairment arise. The fair value of the intangible assets is compared with their carrying value and an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of October 1, and whenever indicators of impairment arise.

Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level, and the Company had seven reporting units as of October 1, 2022. During fiscal year 2022, the Company performed the impairment test for all reporting units. Each of the reporting unit’s estimated fair values were in excess of their carrying values, and we did not record any impairment losses of goodwill.

64

To perform the test, we used valuation techniques to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit that are under the income and/or market approaches of valuation methods:

•
Discounted cash flow method — Under the discounted cash flow method, an income approach, the business enterprise value is determined by discounting to present value the terminal value which is calculated using debt-free after-tax cash flows for a finite period of years. Key estimates in this approach were internal financial projection estimates prepared by management, assessment of business risk, and expected rates of return on capital.

•
Guideline public company method — The guideline public company method, a market approach, develops valuation multiples by comparing our reporting units to similar publicly traded companies. Key estimates and determination of valuation multiples rely on the selection of similar companies, obtaining forecast revenue and EBITDA estimates for the similar companies and selection of valuation multiples as they apply to the reporting unit characteristics.

•
Guideline transaction method — Under the guideline transactions method, a market approach, actual transaction prices and operating data from companies deemed reasonably similar to the reporting units are used to develop valuation multiples as an indication of how much a knowledgeable investor in the marketplace would be willing to pay for the business units.

65

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Part II, Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[Part II, Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35
