================================================================================
CIK: 0001501585
Company Name: HUNTINGTON INGALLS INDUSTRIES, INC
Filing Date: 2020-02-13
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 12:20:18
================================================================================

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Our Business

Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. is America’s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, our Ingalls segment in Mississippi and Newport News segment in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. We also provide a range of services to the governmental, energy, and oil and gas markets through our Technical Solutions segment. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, HII employs approximately 42,000 people both domestically and internationally.

We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. Our Technical Solutions segment provides a wide range of professional services, including fleet support, MDIS, nuclear and environmental, and oil and gas services.

The following discussion should be read along with the audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Environment

Long-term uncertainty exists with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years' defense plan, and it is likely that U.S. Government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure.

The National Defense Authorization Act, as well as appropriations measures that funded the DoD, DoE, and all other federal agencies, was enacted in December 2019 for fiscal year 2020. While these measures largely supported our individual programs, we cannot predict the potential impact should fiscal year 2020 appropriations be reprioritized or reprogrammed for other purposes by the executive branch. Long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed, or canceled. In addition, spending cuts and/or reprioritization of defense investment could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers, subcontractors, and employee base. Our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding. Significant reductions in the number of ships procured or maintained by the U.S. Navy or significant delays in funding our ship programs would have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

The budget environment remains a significant long-term risk. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will develop and what challenges budget changes will present for the defense industry. We believe continued budget pressures will have serious implications for defense discretionary spending, the defense industrial base, including us, and the customers, employees, suppliers, subcontractors, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. Although it is difficult to determine specific impacts, we expect that over the longer term, the budget environment may result in fewer contract awards and lower revenues, profits, and cash flows from our U.S. Government contracts. It is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term impacts on us and the entire defense industry.

Defense Industry Overview

The United States faces a complex, uncertain, and rapidly changing national security environment. The 2018 National Defense Strategy acknowledges an increasingly complex global security environment, characterized by overt challenges to the free and open international order and the re-emergence of long-term, strategic competition between nations. America also faces an ever more lethal and disruptive battlefield, combined across domains, and conducted at increasing speed and reach. The security environment is also affected by rapid technological advancements and the changing character of war. The drive to develop new capabilities and enhance lethality is

28

Table of Contents
relentless, expanding to address emerging threats from peer-competitors as well as actors with lower barriers of entry, and moving at accelerating speed. New capabilities and lethality enhancements include unmanned and autonomous systems and platforms; hypersonics; directed energy; resilient networks; command, control, communications, computers, cyber, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, and targeting ("C5ISR&T") requirements; and fleet design.

We expect that execution of the DoD strategy will require an affordable balance between investments in enhancing the readiness of the current force with investments in new capabilities, force constructs, technologies, and capacity to meet future challenges. The DoD also faces the additional challenges of recapitalizing aging infrastructure, including the Naval Shipyards, and transforming manpower, personnel, training, and education to recruit and retain an empowered force. Other budget priorities could have a significant impact on future spending plans for defense and non-defense discretionary programs. Decreases in the proposed funding levels for our programs could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, including revenues, goodwill, and long-lived assets.

In December 2016, the U.S. Navy released the findings of a year-long Force Structure Assessment, developed to determine the right balance of existing forces, the ships currently under construction, and the future procurement plans needed to address the ever-evolving and increasingly complex threats that the Navy is required to counter. Notably, the Force Structure Assessment did not present a desired force size the U.S. Navy would pursue if resources were not constrained; it reflected a force level that balances warfighting risk to equipment and personnel against available resources and recommends a force size that can reasonably achieve success. Accordingly, the Force Structure Assessment reflects an objective force of 355 ships, comprised of 12 aircraft carriers, 104 large surface combatants, 52 small surface combatants, 38 amphibious warfare ships, 66 attack submarines, 12 ballistic missile submarines, 32 combat logistics ships, 10 expeditionary/high speed transports, 6 expeditionary support bases, and 23 command and support ships. Additionally, the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act included the SHIPS Act, which made it the policy of our nation to achieve a fleet size of 355 ships.

A new Force Structure Assessment, referred to as the Integrated Naval Force Structure Assessment ("INFSA"), is now underway and anticipated to be released in the Spring of 2020, to influence the fiscal year 2022 budget request. The U.S. Navy’s intent is for the INFSA to reflect a shift in future warfighting by emphasizing sea control and sea denial that enables power projection against adversaries with long-range weapons and full-spectrum joint domain capabilities. The INFSA is also anticipated to implement the evolving concept of Distributed Maritime Operations ("DMO"), which will feature multiple sensors and shooters that are widely dispersed across a broad range of manned and unmanned platforms and linked through resilient networks. Additionally, the INFSA will reflect the United States Marine Corps's ("USMC") desire to return to its maritime roots by evolving from a force requirement of 38 large amphibious warships in support of “2.0” Marine Expeditionary Brigades to a force trained and equipped as a naval expeditionary force-in-readiness and prepared to operate inside actively contested maritime spaces in support of fleet operations. In addition to employment of assets such as LHAs, LPDs, and dock landing ships ("LSD"), the USMC’s force will likely feature an expanded assortment of smaller platforms, landing craft, and connectors that are manned, minimally-manned, and unmanned and exploit autonomy and artificial intelligence.

The U.S. Navy’s 2020 five-year shipbuilding plan included 55 new ships, which is the same quantity that was included in the 2019 five-year shipbuilding plan, but reflected an anticipated reduction in the quantity of amphibious warfare ships to offset a corresponding increase in the quantity of attack submarines and small surface combatants. However, the U.S. Navy’s 30-year shipbuilding plan for 2020 reflects a total of 304 ships, compared to the 2019 plan of 301 ships, with respective increases of one each for attack submarines, small surface combatants, and amphibious warfare ships.

While the force objective of 355 ships reflected in the 2016 Force Structure Assessment still pertains and has been memorialized as national policy by the 2018 SHIPS Act, both the Congressional Research Service and Congressional Budget Office have estimated that additional ships would need to be added to the U.S. Navy’s 30-year plan to achieve the 355 ship objective unless the Navy extends the service lives of existing ships and reactivates recently retired ships.

In December 2018, the U.S. Navy also released its “Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority, Version 2.0” ("Design 2.0"), which expands upon a posture initially put forth in January 2016 under Version 1.0 of Design 2.0. The new plan calls for four specific lines of effort: strengthening naval power at and from the sea; achieving high-velocity outcomes; strengthening the U.S. Navy team of the future; and expanding and strengthening the

29

Table of Contents
Navy’s Network of Partners. Each line of effort calls for specific recommendations that are intended to make the U.S. Navy more agile, more competitive, and tougher. As a means of strengthening naval power, the plan expresses award date goals for several major programs, including the future frigate and large surface combatant. Other initiatives include integrating more artificial intelligence and machine learning into warfare systems, developing and fielding a family of directed energy weapons, as well as employment of 3D printing for replacement parts.

In December 2019, the Chief of Naval Operations released "Fragmentary Order 01/2019: A Design for Maintaining Maritime Superiority". The order was written to simplify, prioritize, and build upon the foundation of “Design 2.0,” and focus the U.S. Navy’s efforts on "Warfighting, Warfighters, and the Future Navy". The end-state for the “Warfighting” tenet is a U.S. Navy that is ready to win across the full range of military operations in competition, crisis, and contingency by persistently operating forward with agility and flexibility in an all-domain battlespace. The end-state for the “Warfighters” tenet is a world-class naval force through recruitment, education, training, and retention of talented Americans – a force that empowers U.S. Navy families. The end-state for the “Future Navy” tenet envisions a fleet designed to ensure the wholeness of combat capability and lethal forces maximizing the benefits of DMO, Expeditionary Advanced Base Operations, and Littoral Operations in a contested environment. Manned and unmanned technology will be used to expand reach, lethality, and warfighter awareness.

The shipbuilding defense industry, as characterized by its competitors, customers, suppliers, potential entrants, and substitutes, is unique in many ways. It is heavily capital and skilled labor intensive. The U.S. Navy, a large single customer with many needs and requirements, dominates the industry's customer base and is served by an increasingly fragile supplier base that has trended toward exclusive providers. Smaller shipyards, however, have entered the market to build the U.S. Navy's littoral combat ship and have expressed interest in the future frigate program.

The DoD continues to adjust its procurement practices and streamline acquisition organizations and processes in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. Additionally, the U.S. Navy must compete with other national priorities, including other defense activities, non-defense discretionary spending, and entitlement programs, for a share of federal budget funding. While the impact to our business resulting from these developments remains uncertain, they could have a material impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the DoD. See Risk Factors in Item 1A.

Program Descriptions

For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is included in the Glossary of Programs.

CONTRACTS

We generate most of our revenues from long-term U.S. Government contracts for design, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs, including allowable general and administrative expenses. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are treated as allowable and allocable costs under the FAR and CAS regulations. Examples of costs incurred by us that are not allowable under the FAR and CAS regulations include certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense, and advertising costs.

We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, the DCAA routinely audits the costs we incur that are allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government.

Our contracts typically fall into one of four categories: firm fixed-price, fixed-price incentive, cost-type, and time and materials. See Note 8: Revenue in Item 8.

•Firm Fixed-Price Contracts - A firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is predetermined by bid or negotiation and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor.

30

Table of Contents
•Fixed-Price Incentive Contracts - Fixed-price incentive contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs, but are subject to a cost-share limit that affects profitability. Fixed-price incentive contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share limit is reached.

•Cost-Type Contracts - Cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs plus a fee that represents profit. Cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its reasonable efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation.

•Time and Materials - Time and materials contracts specify a fixed hourly billing rate for each direct labor hour expended and reimbursement for allowable material costs and expenses.

Contract Fees - Negotiated contract fee structures include: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize contractors for under or over cost target performance, respectively, positive award fees, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, percentage-of-completion of the contract, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined.

Award Fees - Certain contracts contain award fees based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on an evaluation by the customer of our performance against such negotiated criteria. We consider award fees to be variable consideration and generally include these fees in the transaction price using a most likely amount approach. Award fees are limited to the extent of funding allotted by the customer and available for performance and those amounts for which a significant reversal of revenue is not probable.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Management considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations and requires significant judgment and estimates by management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by our management. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. Due to the significant judgment involved in selecting certain of the assumptions used in these policies, it is possible that different parties could choose different assumptions and reach different conclusions. We consider our policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies:

•Revenue recognition;
•Purchase accounting, goodwill, and intangible assets;
•Litigation, commitments, and contingencies;
•Retirement related benefit plans; and
•Workers' compensation.

Revenue Recognition

Most of our revenues are derived from long-term contracts for the production of goods and services provided to the U.S. Government, which are generally accounted for by recognizing revenues over time using a cost-to-cost measure of progress. The use of the cost-to-cost method to measure performance progress over time is supported by clauses in the related contracts that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit, and take control of any work in process.

When the customer is not a U.S. Government entity, we may recognize revenue over time or at a point in time when control transfers upon delivery, depending upon the facts and circumstances of the related arrangement. When we determine that revenue should be recognized over time, we utilize a measure of progress that best depicts the transfer of control of the relevant goods and services to the customer. Generally, the terms and conditions of the contracts result in a transfer of control over the related goods and services as we satisfy our performance obligations. Accordingly, we recognize revenue over time using the cost-to-cost method to measure performance progress. We may, however, utilize a measure of progress other than cost-to-cost, such as a labor-

31

Table of Contents
based measure of progress, if the terms and conditions of the arrangement require such accounting.

When using the cost-to-cost method to measure performance progress, certain contracts may include costs that are not representative of performance progress, such as large upfront purchases of uninstalled materials, unexpected waste, or inefficiencies. In these cases, we adjust our measure of progress to exclude such costs, with the goal of better reflecting the transfer of control over the related goods or services to the customer and recognizing revenue only to the extent of the costs incurred that reflect our performance under the contract.

In addition, for time and material arrangements, we often utilize the practical expedient allowing the recognition of revenue in the amount we invoice, which corresponds with the value provided to the customer and to which we are entitled to payment for performance to date.

A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account for which revenue is recognized. To determine the proper revenue recognition method, consideration is given to whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as one contract and whether a single contract consists of more than one performance obligation. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the contract transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation using an estimate of the standalone selling price based upon expected cost plus a margin at contract inception, which is generally the price disclosed in the contract. Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. In the majority of circumstances, modifications do not result in additional performance obligations that are distinct from the existing performance obligations in the contract, and the effects of the modifications are recognized as an adjustment to revenue on a cumulative catch-up basis. Alternatively, in instances in which the performance obligations in the modifications are deemed distinct, contract modifications are accounted for prospectively.

The amount of revenue recognized as we satisfy performance obligations associated with contracts with customers is based upon the determination of transaction price. Transaction price reflects the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled for performance under the terms and conditions of the relevant contract and may reflect fixed and variable components, including shareline incentive fees whereby the value of the contract is variable based upon the amount of costs incurred, as well as other incentive fees based upon achievement of contractual schedule commitments or other specified criteria in the contract. Shareline incentive fees are determined based upon the formula under the relevant contract using our estimated cost to complete for each period. We generally utilize a most likely amount approach to estimate variable consideration. In all such instances, the estimated revenues represent those amounts for which we believe a significant reversal of revenue is not probable.

Contract Estimates - In estimating contract costs, we utilize a profit-booking rate based upon performance expectations that takes into consideration a number of assumptions and estimates regarding risks related to technical requirements, feasibility, schedule, and contract costs. Management performs periodic reviews of the contracts to evaluate the underlying risks, which may increase the profit-booking rate as we are able to mitigate and retire such risks. Conversely, if we are not able to retire these risks, cost estimates may increase, resulting in a lower profit-booking rate.

The cost estimation process requires significant judgment based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, program managers, and financial professionals. Factors considered in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability, productivity, and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any performance delays, the availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete.

Changes in estimates of sales, costs, and profits on a performance obligation are recognized using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes in current and prior periods.

32

Table of Contents
For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were as follows:

----------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- - --- ----- - ---
 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Gross favorable adjustments $ 247 $ 225 $ 309
Gross unfavorable adjustments (151) (115) (105)
Net adjustments $ 96 $ 110 $ 204

For the year ended December 31, 2019, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were related to contract changes on submarine support services, risk retirement on the Legend class NSC program, surface combatants, and the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73), as well as other individually insignificant adjustments. During the same period, unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments included recognition of a forward loss on a fleet support services contract and schedule delays on Tripoli (LHA 7), as well as other individually insignificant adjustments.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were related to risk retirement on the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, the Legend class NSC program, USS Portland (LPD 27), and Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), as well as other individually insignificant adjustments. During the same period, unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, including lower performance on Delaware (SSN 791) and Montana (SSN 794), and other individually insignificant adjustments.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were primarily related to risk retirement on the Legend class NSC program, Tripoli (LHA 7), USS Portland (LPD 27), and the delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), and other individually insignificant adjustments. During the same period, none of the unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were individually significant.

When estimates of total costs to be incurred exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned on a performance obligation related to a complex, construction-type contract, we recognize a provision for the entire loss on the performance obligation in the period the loss is determined.

Purchase Accounting, Goodwill, and Intangible Assets
Goodwill - Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of identifiable net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. The amount of our goodwill as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, was $1,373 million and $1,263 million, respectively.

Tests for Impairment - We perform impairment tests for goodwill as of November 30 of each year, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. When testing goodwill, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value, we record a charge to operations.

We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market based valuation methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period. The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of capital. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against our market capitalization. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit.

November 30, 2019 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2019, except for the oil and gas reporting unit in our Technical Solutions segment.

33

Table of Contents
Our determination of fair value as of November 30, 2019, of our oil and gas reporting unit, considered the slower than expected growth in operating margin, a revised long-term outlook for the reporting unit, and less favorable market conditions. The analysis concluded the fair value of this reporting unit was less than its carrying value as of November 30, 2019, and we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $29 million at our oil and gas reporting unit in our Technical Solutions segment in the fourth quarter of 2019.

November 30, 2018 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2018.

November 30, 2017 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2017.

Other Intangible Assets - We perform tests for impairment of amortizable intangible assets whenever events or
circumstances suggest that amortizable intangible assets may be impaired.

Litigation, Commitments, and Contingencies

Overview - We are subject to a range of legal proceedings before various courts and administrative agencies and are periodically subject to government examinations, inquiries, and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and the experience of management and our internal and external legal counsel. In accordance with our practices relating to accounting for contingencies, we record charges to earnings when we determine, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known.

Environmental Accruals - We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. We record a liability for the costs of expected environmental remediation obligations when we determine that it is probable we will incur such costs and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. When a range of costs is possible and no amount within that range is a better estimate than another, we record the minimum amount of the range.

Factors that could result in changes to the assessment of probability, range of estimated costs, and environmental liability accruals include: modification of planned remedial actions, increase or decrease in the estimated time required to remediate, discovery of more extensive contamination than anticipated, results of efforts to involve other legally responsible parties, financial insolvency of other responsible parties, changes in laws and regulations or contractual obligations affecting remediation requirements, and improvements in remediation technology. Although we cannot predict whether new information gained as remediation projects progress will materially affect the accrued liability, we do not believe that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Asset Retirement Obligations - We record all known asset retirement obligations for which the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal, asset decommissioning, and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts as of each of December 31, 2019 and 2018, were immaterial. See Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8.

We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations related to assets currently in use, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that were not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2019, due to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, the fair value of these obligations has not been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Environmental remediation and/or asset decommissioning of facilities currently in use may be required when we cease to utilize these facilities. In addition, there may be conditional environmental asset retirement obligations that we have not yet discovered (for example, asbestos of which we have not become aware through

34

Table of Contents
normal business operations may exist in certain buildings), and these obligations have therefore not been included in our consolidated financial statements.

Litigation Accruals - Litigation accruals are recorded as charges to earnings when management has determined, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Based upon the information available, we believe that the resolution of any of these various legal proceedings will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Uncertain Tax Positions - Uncertain tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, based on the merits of the position, are recognized in the financial statements. We recognize the amount of a tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. If a tax position does not meet the minimum statutory threshold to avoid payment of penalties, we recognize an expense for the amount of the penalty in the period the tax position is claimed or expected to be claimed in our tax return. Penalties and accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as a component of income tax expense. See Note 14: Income Taxes in Item 8. Changes in accruals associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in earnings in the period they are determined.

Retirement Related Benefit Plans

We recognize, on a plan-by-plan basis, the funded status of our retirement related benefit plans as an asset or liability on our balance sheet, with corresponding adjustments to after-tax accumulated other comprehensive loss and deferred tax assets or liabilities. The funded status represents the difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. See Note 19: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8.

We calculate our retirement related benefit plan costs under both CAS and U.S. GAAP Financial Accounting Standards ("FAS"). The calculations under CAS and FAS require significant judgment. CAS prescribes the determination, allocation, and recovery of retirement related benefit plan costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services. FAS prescribes the methodology used to determine retirement related benefit plan expense or income, as well as the liability, for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for these costs and their calculation methodologies differ from FAS. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of retirement related benefit plan costs.

Retirement related benefit plan costs are allocated to our U.S. Government contracts as allowable costs based upon CAS. We recover our CAS costs through the pricing of products and services on U.S. Government contracts, so that the CAS cost is recognized in segment product sales and service revenues and in the costs of those product sales and service revenues. In order to present our consolidated financial statements in accordance with FAS, we record the difference between our FAS expense and CAS cost (“FAS/CAS Adjustment”) as operating income within segment operating income and non-operating retirement benefit (expense).

The minimum funding requirements for our qualified pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), which is primarily based on the year's expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. Effective January 1, 2011, we were subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 ("PPA"), which amended ERISA. Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven-year period as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of each year. PPA also introduced a variety of benefit restrictions that apply if a plan falls below certain funded percentages, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code. In funding our plans, we consider various factors, including the minimum funding requirements, maintaining the funded status needed to avoid potential benefit restrictions and other adverse consequences, maintaining minimum CAS funding requirements, and the current and anticipated funding levels of each plan.

We use a current market rate to determine the CAS interest rate. Effective January 1, 2021, we will adopt the Safe Harbor methodology used in determining CAS pension costs. Under the new methodology, the interest rates used to calculate pension liabilities under CAS are consistent with those used in the determination of minimum funding requirements under ERISA.

35

Table of Contents
Pension funding requirements under ERISA are subject to potential pension relief for plan sponsors in the form of higher interest rate assumptions introduced by the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act and subsequently extended by the Highway and Transportation Funding Act in 2014 and The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. Using these minimum funding interest rates for the purposes of determining pension costs under CAS reduces volatility in CAS costs year-over-year and provides more predictable costs for our customers, while better aligning reimbursements of pension costs under our contracts with our required pension plan contributions under ERISA.

This change in CAS methodology is not expected to have a material effect on our minimum pension funding requirements and no effect on benefits received by participants of the pension plans. While CAS costs under the new methodology are generally expected to be comparable over the life of a plan on a net present value basis, the change is expected to decrease CAS costs following adoption in 2021 due to the higher interest rates applicable with funding relief, thus resulting in a lower FAS/CAS Adjustment. Following adoption in 2021 and based on current interest rate conditions, we also expect that pension contributions will decrease in substantially the same amount as CAS costs, with limited impact to cash flows and consolidated segment operating income.

Due to the differences in requirements and calculation methodologies between FAS and CAS, our FAS pension expense is not necessarily indicative of the funding requirements under PPA or the amounts we recover from the U.S. Government under CAS.

Assumptions - We account for our retirement related benefit plans on the accrual basis under FAS. The measurements of obligations, costs, assets, and liabilities require significant judgment. We annually review our assumptions, which are set at each year end and are generally not changed during the following year unless there is a major plan event, such as an amendment, curtailment, or settlement that would trigger a remeasurement. The key assumptions in these measurements are the interest rate used to discount future benefit payments and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.

Discount Rate - The assumed discount rate under FAS is used to determine the retirement related benefit plan obligations and expense, and represents the hypothetical rate at which the plans' benefit obligations could be effectively settled at the measurement date. Consequently, the discount rate can be volatile from year to year. The discount rate assumption is determined for each plan by constructing a hypothetical portfolio of high quality bonds with cash flows that match the estimated outflows for future benefit payments to determine a single equivalent discount rate. Benefit payments are not only contingent on the terms of a plan, but also on the underlying participant demographics, including current age and assumed mortality. We use only bonds that are denominated in U.S. Dollars, are rated Aa or better by nationally recognized statistical rating agencies, have a minimum outstanding issue of $100 million as of the measurement date, and are not callable, convertible, or index-linked.

Taking into consideration the factors noted above, our weighted average discount rate for pensions was 3.39% and 4.34% as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our weighted average discount rate for other postretirement benefits was 3.35% and 4.33% as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Expected Long-Term Rate of Return - The expected long-term rate of return on assets is used to calculate net periodic expense, and is based on such factors as historical returns, targeted asset allocations, investment policy, duration, expected future long-term performance of individual asset classes, interest rates, inflation, portfolio volatility, investment management and administrative fees, and risk management strategies. Historical plan asset performance alone has inherent limitations in predicting future returns. While studies are helpful in understanding past and current trends and performance, the assumption is based more on long-term prospective views to avoid short-term market influences. Unless plan assets and benefit obligations are subject to remeasurement during the year, the expected return on pension assets is based on the fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. We used a 7.25% expected long-term rate of return assumption to record 2019 pension expense, and we anticipate retaining that assumption throughout 2020.

Mortality - Mortality assumptions are used to determine the retirement related benefit obligations and expense, and represent the likelihood and duration of benefit payments to plan participants based on historical experience and projected longevity. We periodically update our mortality assumptions as circumstances warrant.

Differences arising from actual experience or changes in assumptions might materially affect retirement related benefit plan obligations and the funded status. Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between assumptions and actual experience or changes in assumptions are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive

36

Table of Contents
loss. This unrecognized amount is amortized as a component of net expense to the extent it exceeds 10% of the greater of the plan's benefit obligation or plan assets. The amortization period for actuarial gains and losses is the estimated average remaining service life of the plan participants. In 2019, the actual return on assets was approximately 22%, which was more than the expected return assumption of 7.25%. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the weighted average discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans decreased by 95 and 98 basis points, respectively. These differences in asset returns and discount rates resulted in an actuarial gain of $825 million and an actuarial loss of $1,039 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2019.

An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return assumptions would have had the following approximate impacts on pensions:

---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------------------- ----- - ---
($ in millions) Increase (Decrease) in 2020 Expense Increase (Decrease) in December 31, 2019 Obligations
25 basis point decrease in discount rate $ 26 $ 298
25 basis point increase in discount rate (24) (281)
25 basis point decrease in expected return on assets 17
25 basis point increase in expected return on assets (17)

Assuming a 7.25% expected return on assets assumption, a $50 million pension contribution is generally expected to favorably impact the current year expected return on assets by approximately $2 million, depending on the timing of the contribution.

Sensitivities to assumptions are not necessarily linear and are specific to the time periods noted.

CAS Cost - In addition to providing the methodology for calculating retirement related benefit plan costs, CAS also prescribes the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for such costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. The key drivers of CAS pension cost include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans. A plan’s CAS pension cost can only be allocated until the plan is fully funded as defined under the CAS requirements.

Through 2013, CAS required the pension interest rate to be consistent with the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, which changed infrequently given its long-term nature. As a result, short-term changes in bond yields or other interest rates generally did not impact CAS costs. Under the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards Board's final CAS Harmonization Rule ("Harmonization"), the liability used to determine CAS cost is developed by comparing the liability under the previous CAS methodology and assumptions to a liability based on a discount rate derived from yields on high quality corporate bonds. Since Harmonization became fully phased in during 2017, the greater of the two liabilities is used for CAS cost calculations. Generally, liabilities based on a discount rate of high quality corporate bonds will be higher than liabilities calculated prior to Harmonization. Prior to the full phasing in of Harmonization, the use of a blend of the pre and post Harmonization liabilities was required.

Other FAS and CAS Pension Considerations - A key driver of the difference between FAS expense and CAS cost (and consequently the FAS/CAS Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for actuarial gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experiences differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Under FAS, our net actuarial gains and losses exceeding the 10% corridor are amortized over the estimated average remaining service life of the plan participants. Under CAS Harmonization, the amortization period is 10 years for actuarial gains and losses. Both FAS and CAS use a "market-related value" of plan assets approach to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. Under CAS actual asset gains and losses are systematically smoothed over five years, subject to certain limitations. For FAS, we do not use this smoothing method, and instead use fair value in determining our FAS expense. Accordingly, FAS expense generally reflects recent asset gains and losses sooner than CAS.

Additionally, CAS cost is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded as defined under CAS. If a plan becomes or ceases to be fully funded due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS cost will change accordingly.

The FAS/CAS Adjustments in 2019, 2018, and 2017 were net benefits of $136 million, $364 million, and $189 million, respectively. The unfavorable change from 2018 to 2019 was primarily driven by more immediate

37

Table of Contents
recognition of the 2018 asset losses under FAS and the impacts of higher discount and interest rates. The favorable change from 2017 to 2018 was primarily driven by more immediate recognition of the 2017 asset gains under FAS and the impacts of lower discount and interest rates and other experience gains and losses and assumptions changes (e.g. mortality). Our projected 2020 FAS/CAS Adjustment is discussed in Consolidated Operating Results - Operating Income.

Retirement Plan Assets - Retirement plan assets are stated at fair value. Investments in equity securities (common and preferred) are valued at the last reported sales price when an active market exists. Investments in fixed-income securities are generally valued based on market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities that are generally recognized by institutional traders. Investments in hedge funds, real estate investment funds, private partnerships, collective trust funds, and commingled funds are generally valued at their Net Asset Values ("NAV") or equivalent, which are based on the current fair value of the fund's underlying assets.

Management reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements, and additional pricing information to evaluate the NAV or its equivalent. For the limited group of investments for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. See Note 19: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in Item 8.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss - Changes in assumptions and changes to plan assets and benefit obligations due to differences between actuarial assumptions and actual results are reported as actuarial gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss along with unrecognized prior service costs arising from plan amendments. As disclosed in Note 19: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8, net pre-tax unrecognized actuarial losses as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $1,855 million and $1,692 million, respectively. The increase in these actuarial losses in 2019 was primarily driven by a $1,039 million actuarial loss due to the decrease in the discount rates used to determine benefit obligations, $102 million of amortization of previously unrecognized actuarial losses, and actual asset returns, which were $825 million above expected returns.

Net pre-tax unrecognized prior service costs (credits) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $50 million and $46 million, respectively. These net deferred costs (credits) primarily originated from plan amendments, including those resulting from collective bargaining agreements. The change in unrecognized prior service costs (credits) in 2019 resulted from the amortization of previously accumulated prior service costs (credits).

Workers' Compensation

Our operations are subject to federal and state workers' compensation laws. We maintain self-insured workers' compensation plans and participate in federally administered second injury workers' compensation funds. We estimate the liability for such claims and funding requirements on a discounted basis utilizing actuarial methods based on various assumptions, which include our historical loss experience and projected loss development factors. We periodically, and at least annually, update our assumptions based on an actuarial analysis. Related self-insurance accruals include the liability for reported claims and an estimated accrual for claims incurred but not reported. Our workers' compensation liability was discounted at 1.92% and 2.89% as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, based on future payment streams and a risk-free rate. We estimate a 100 basis points increase or decrease in the discount rate would change our workers' compensation liability by $(44) million or $53 million, respectively. The workers' compensation benefit obligation on an undiscounted basis was $802 million and $845 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Accounting Standards Updates

See Note 3: Accounting Standards Updates in Item 8 for further information.

38

Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS

The following table presents selected financial highlights:

------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- -------------- ------- ----- -------------- ------- ----- ----- ---- - ---- - --- -- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 8,899 $ 8,176 $ 7,441 $ 723 9 % $ 735 10 %
Cost of product sales and service revenues 7,368 6,385 5,813 983 15 % 572 10 %
Income from operating investments, net 22 17 12 5 29 % 5 42 %
Other income and gains — 14 — (14) (100) % 14 — %
General and administrative expenses 788 871 759 (83) (10) % 112 15 %
Goodwill impairment 29 — — 29 — % — — %
Operating income 736 951 881 (215) (23) % 70 8 %
Interest expense (70) (58) (94) (12) (21) % 36 38 %
Non-operating retirement benefit (expense) 12 74 (16) (62) (84) % 90 563 %
Other, net 5 4 1 1 25 % 3 300 %
Federal and foreign income taxes 134 135 293 (1) (1) % (158) (54) %
Net earnings $ 549 $ 836 $ 479 $ (287) (34) % $ 357 75 %

Operating Performance Assessment and Reporting

We manage and assess the performance of our business based on our performance on individual contracts and programs using the financial measures referred to below, with consideration given to the Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments referred to in this section. Our portfolio of long-term contracts is largely flexibly-priced. Therefore, sales tend to fluctuate in concert with costs across our large portfolio of active contracts, with operating income being a critical measure of operating performance. Under FAR rules that govern our business with the U.S. Government, most types of costs are allowable, and we do not focus on individual cost groupings, such as cost of sales or general and administrative expenses, as much as we do on total contract costs, which are a key factor in determining contract operating income. As a result, in evaluating our operating performance, we look primarily at changes in sales and service revenues, as well as operating income, including the effects of significant changes in operating income as a result of changes in contract estimates and the use of the cumulative catch-up method of accounting in accordance with GAAP. This approach is consistent with the long-term life cycle of our contracts, as management assesses the bidding of each contract by focusing on net sales and operating profit and monitors performance in a similar manner through contract completion. Consequently, our discussion of business segment performance focuses on net sales and operating profit, consistent with our approach for managing our business.

Cost of sales for both product sales and service revenues consists of materials, labor, and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs for overhead. We manage the type and amount of costs at the contract level, which is the basis for estimating our total costs at completion of our contracts. Unusual fluctuations in operating performance driven by changes in a specific cost element across multiple contracts are described in our analysis.

Sales and Service Revenues

Sales and service revenues were comprised as follows:

-------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- -------------- ------- ----- -------------- ------- --- --- - - -- - --- -- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Product sales $ 6,265 $ 6,023 $ 5,573 $ 242 4 % $ 450 8 %
Service revenues 2,634 2,153 1,868 481 22 % 285 15 %
Sales and service revenues $ 8,899 $ 8,176 $ 7,441 $ 723 9 % $ 735 10 %

2019 - Product sales in 2019 increased $242 million, or 4%, from 2018. Product sales at our Ingalls segment decreased $71 million in 2019, primarily as a result of lower volumes in the Legend class NSC program, amphibious assault ships, and surface combatants. Newport News product sales increased $346 million in 2019, primarily as a

39

Table of Contents
result of higher volumes in aircraft carriers and submarines. Technical Solutions product sales decreased $33 million in 2019, primarily as a result of lower volumes in nuclear and environmental products.

Service revenues in 2019 increased $481 million, or 22%, from 2018. Service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $18 million in 2019, as a result of higher volumes in amphibious assault ship services, partially offset by lower volume in surface combatant services. Service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $118 million in 2019, primarily as a result of higher volumes in aircraft carrier and naval nuclear support services, partially offset by lower volume in submarine services. Service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $345 million in 2019, primarily as a result of the addition of Fulcrum and G2, as well as higher volumes in fleet support, oil and gas, and other MDIS services.

2018 - Product sales in 2018 increased $450 million, or 8%, from 2017. Product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $182 million in 2018, primarily as a result of higher volumes in amphibious assault ships, partially offset by lower volumes in the Legend class NSC program. Newport News product sales increased $284 million in 2018, primarily as a result of higher volumes in aircraft carriers, partially offset by lower volumes in submarines. Technical Solutions product sales decreased $16 million in 2018, primarily as a result of lower volumes in nuclear and environmental products.

Service revenues in 2018 increased $285 million, or 15%, from 2017. Service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $3 million in 2018, as a result of higher volumes in amphibious assault ship services, partially offset by lower volumes in surface combatant services. Service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $269 million in 2018, primarily as a result of higher volumes in naval nuclear support services and submarines services. Service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $13 million in 2018, primarily as a result of higher volumes in oil and gas and MDIS services, partially offset by lower volumes in fleet support and nuclear and environmental services.

Cost of Sales and Service Revenues

Cost of product sales, cost of service revenues, income from operating investments, net, and general and administrative expenses were as follows:

-------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- -------------- - ------- ----- -------------- ------- --- --- -- - -- - --- -- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Cost of product sales $ 5,158 $ 4,627 $ 4,277 $ 531 11 % $ 350 8 %
% of product sales 82.3 % 76.8 % 76.7 %
Cost of service revenues 2,210 1,758 1,536 452 26 % 222 14 %
% of service revenues 83.9 % 81.7 % 82.2 %
Income from operating investments, net 22 17 12 5 29 % 5 42 %
Other income and gains — 14 — (14) (100) % 14 — %
General and administrative expenses 788 871 759 (83) (10) % 112 15 %
% of total sales and service revenues 8.9 % 10.7 % 10.2 %
Goodwill impairment 29 — — 29 — % — — %
Cost of sales and service revenues $ 8,163 $ 7,225 $ 6,560 $ 938 13 % $ 665 10 %

Cost of Product Sales

2019 - Cost of product sales in 2019 increased $531 million, or 11%, compared to 2018. Cost of product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $54 million in 2019, primarily as a result of lower risk retirement in amphibious assault ships, partially offset by the lower volumes described above, as well as one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of product sales at our Newport News segment increased $383 million in 2019, primarily as a result of the higher volumes described above, partially offset by one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of product sales at our Technical Solutions segment decreased $37 million in 2019, primarily due to the lower volumes described above. Cost of product sales related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment increased $131 million from 2018 to 2019.

40

Table of Contents
Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales increased from 76.8% in 2018 to 82.3% in 2019, primarily due to an unfavorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment, a workers' compensation benefit in 2018, lower risk retirement on the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program and Tripoli (LHA 7), and year-to-year variances in contract mix, partially offset by higher risk retirement on the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73) and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act.

2018 - Cost of product sales in 2018 increased $350 million, or 8%, compared to 2017. Cost of product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $171 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above, lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and the Legend class NSC program, and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of product sales at our Newport News segment increased $264 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above, lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of product sales at our Technical Solutions segment decreased $23 million in 2018, primarily due to the lower volumes described above and an allowance for accounts receivable in 2017 on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract. Cost of product sales related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment decreased $62 million from 2017 to 2018.

Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales increased from 76.7% in 2017 to 76.8% in 2018, primarily
due to lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7), the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and the Legend class NSC program, as well as one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, offset by a favorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment, an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017, and year-to-year variances in contract mix.

Cost of Service Revenues

2019 - Cost of service revenues in 2019 increased $452 million, or 26%, compared to 2018. Cost of service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $2 million in 2019, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above, partially offset by the recognition in 2018 of a loss on a long-term design contract and improved performance on surface combatant services. Cost of service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $67 million in 2019, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $348 million in 2019, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above and a loss on a fleet support services contract, partially offset by one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of service revenues related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment increased $35 million from 2018 to 2019.

Cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues increased from 81.7% in 2018 to 83.9% in 2019, primarily driven by an unfavorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment, a loss on a fleet support services contract, and year-to-year variances in contract mix, partially offset by contract changes on submarine support services, one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, and the recognition in 2018 of a loss on a long-term design contract.

2018 - Cost of service revenues in 2018 increased $222 million, or 14%, compared to 2017. Cost of service revenues at our Ingalls segment decreased $3 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $244 million in 2018, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $4 million in 2018, primarily due to one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act. Cost of service revenues related to the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment decreased $23 million from 2017 to 2018.

Cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues decreased from 82.2% in 2017 to 81.7% in 2018, primarily driven by the resolution in 2017 of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, partially offset by a favorable change in the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment and year-to-year variances in contract mix.

Income from Operating Investments, Net

The activities of our operating investments are closely aligned with the operations of the segments holding the investments. We therefore record income related to earnings from equity method investments in our operating income.

41

Table of Contents
2019 - Income from operating investments, net increased $5 million, or 29%, to $22 million in 2019 from $17 million in 2018. The increase resulted from higher equity income from our SRNS and N3B investments.

2018 - Income from operating investments, net increased $5 million, or 42%, to $17 million in 2018 from $12 million in 2017. The increase resulted from higher equity income from our SRNS and N3B investments.

Other Income and Gains

2019 - Other income and gains decreased $14 million in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to recoveries related to a settlement agreement at our Ingalls segment in 2018.

2018 - Other income and gains increased $14 million in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily as a result of recoveries related to a settlement agreement at our Ingalls segment.

General and Administrative Expenses

In accordance with industry practice and the regulations that govern the cost accounting requirements for government contracts, most general and administrative expenses are considered allowable and allocable costs on government contracts. These costs are allocated to contracts in progress on a systematic basis, and contract performance factors include this cost component as an element of cost.

2019 - General and administrative expenses in 2019 decreased $83 million, or 10%, compared to 2018. This decrease was primarily driven by lower overhead costs and current state income tax expense, partially offset by the addition of Fulcrum and G2 and unfavorable changes in non-current state income tax expense.

2018 - General and administrative expenses in 2018 increased $112 million, or 15%, compared to 2017. This increase was primarily driven by higher overhead costs related to increased headcount, as well as higher current state income tax expense, partially offset by lower non-current state income tax expense.

Goodwill Impairment

As discussed above in Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments, we perform impairment tests for
goodwill as of November 30 each year, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. We record a charge to operations when we determine that an impairment has occurred.

2019 - We recorded a goodwill impairment charge in 2019 of $29 million at our Technical Solutions segment. See Note 13: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in Item 8.

Operating Income

We consider operating income to be an important measure for evaluating our operating performance, and, as is typical in the industry, we define operating income as revenues less the related cost of producing the revenues and general and administrative expenses.

We internally manage our operations by reference to "segment operating income," which is defined as operating income before the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment and non-current state income taxes, neither of which affects segment performance. Segment operating income is not a recognized measure under GAAP.  When analyzing our operating performance, investors should use segment operating income in addition to, and not as an alternative for, operating income or any other performance measure presented in accordance with GAAP. It is a measure we use to evaluate our core operating performance.  We believe segment operating income reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. We believe the measure is used by investors and is a useful indicator to measure our performance. Because not all companies use identical calculations, our presentation of segment operating income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

42

Table of Contents
The following table reconciles operating income to segment operating income:

------------------------------ ---------------------- --- ---- ----- ---- --- -------------- ------- --- -------------- ------- ----- ---- ---- - ---- - ---- --- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Operating income $ 736 $ 951 $ 881 $ (215) (23) % $ 70 8 %
Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment (124) (290) (205) 166 57 % (85) (41) %
Non-current state income taxes 19 2 12 17 850 % (10) (83) %
Segment operating income $ 631 $ 663 $ 688 $ (32) (5) % $ (25) (4) %

Segment Operating Income

2019 - Segment operating income in 2019 was $631 million, compared to $663 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to favorable changes in workers' compensation expense in 2018, a goodwill impairment at our Technical Solutions segment, lower risk retirement on the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program and Tripoli (LHA 7), a loss on a fleet support services contract, and recoveries related to a 2018 settlement agreement at our Ingalls segment, partially offset by contract changes on submarine support services, higher volume at our Newport News segment, higher risk retirement on the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73), and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act.

2018 - Segment operating income in 2018 was $663 million, compared to $688 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower performance in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and the Legend class NSC program, the resolution in 2017 of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), as well as one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, partially offset by favorable changes in workers' compensation expense, recoveries related to a settlement agreement at our Ingalls segment, and an allowance for accounts receivable in 2017 on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

Activity within each segment is discussed under Segment Operating Results below.

FAS/CAS Adjustment and Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment

The FAS/CAS Adjustment reflects the difference between expenses for pension and other postretirement benefits determined in accordance with GAAP and the expenses for these items included in segment operating income in accordance with CAS. The Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment excludes the following components of net periodic benefit costs: interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost (credit) and actuarial loss (gain), and settlement and curtailment effects.

The components of the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment were as follows:

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---- -------------- ------- ----- -------------- ------- ----- ---- ---- - ----- - -- -- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
FAS expense $ (139) $ (91) $ (172) $ (48) (53) % $ 81 47 %
CAS cost 275 455 361 (180) (40) % 94 26 %
FAS/CAS Adjustment 136 364 189 (228) (63) % 175 93 %
Non-operating retirement expense (12) (74) 16 62 84 % (90) (563) %
Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment $ 124 $ 290 $ 205 $ (166) (57) % $ 85 41 %

2019 - The Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2019 was a net benefit of $124 million, compared to a net benefit of $290 million in 2018. The unfavorable change was primarily driven by the more immediate recognition of higher interest rates under CAS.

2018 - The Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2018 was a net benefit of $290 million, compared to a net benefit of $205 million in 2017. The favorable change was primarily driven by impacts of lower discount and interest rates.

43

Table of Contents
We expect the FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2020 to be a net benefit of approximately $367 million ($69 million FAS and $436 million CAS), primarily driven by the more immediate recognition of the 2019 asset returns under FAS and the more immediate recognition of lower interest rates under CAS.

We expect the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2020 to be a net benefit of approximately $247 million ($189 million FAS and $436 million CAS), primarily driven by the more immediate recognition of lower interest rates under CAS. The expected FAS/CAS Adjustment is subject to change during 2020, when we remeasure our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for CAS with updated census data and other items later in the year.

Non-current State Income Taxes

Non-current state income taxes include deferred state income taxes, which reflect the change in deferred state tax assets and liabilities, and the tax expense or benefit associated with changes in state uncertain tax positions in the relevant period. These amounts are recorded within operating income. Current period state income tax expense is charged to contract costs and included in cost of sales and service revenues in segment operating income.

2019 - Non-current state income tax expense in 2019 was $19 million, compared to $2 million in 2018. The increase in non-current state income tax expense was driven by an increase in deferred state income tax expense and state uncertain tax positions. The increase in deferred state income tax expense was primarily attributable to changes in the timing of contract taxable income and pension related adjustments.

2018 - Non-current state income tax expense in 2018 was $2 million, compared to $12 million in 2017. The decrease in non-current state income tax expense was driven by a decrease in deferred state income tax expense primarily attributable to changes in pension related adjustments.

Interest Expense

2019 - Interest expense in 2019 was $70 million, compared to $58 million in 2018. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in short term borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our commercial paper program in 2019.

2018 - Interest expense in 2018 was $58 million, compared to $94 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily a result of a loss from the early extinguishment of debt in 2017 from refinancing our 5.000% senior notes due in 2021 with 3.483% senior notes due in 2027. See Note 15: Debt in Item 8.

Non-Operating Retirement Benefit (Expense)

The non-operating retirement benefit (expense) includes the following components of net periodic benefit costs: interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service cost (credit) and actuarial loss (gain), and settlement and curtailment effects.

2019 - An unfavorable change in the non-operating retirement benefit (expense) of $62 million from 2018 to 2019 was primarily driven by lower 2018 returns on plan assets.

2018 - The favorable change in the non-operating retirement benefit (expense) of $90 million from 2017 to 2018 was primarily driven by favorable 2017 returns on plan assets.

Federal and Foreign Income Taxes

2019 - Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 19.6% in 2019, compared to 13.9% in 2018. The increase in our effective tax rate for 2019 was primarily attributable to claims for higher research and development tax credits for prior tax years recorded in 2018.

2018 - Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 13.9% in 2018, compared to 38.0% in 2017. The decrease in our effective tax rate for 2018 was primarily attributable to the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate and claims for higher research and development tax credits for prior tax years. In addition, the 2017 effective tax rate was impacted by the revaluation of the net deferred tax assets resulting from the decrease in the federal income tax rate included in the Tax Act.

44

Table of Contents
SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS

Basis of Presentation

We are aligned into three reportable segments: Ingalls, Newport News, and Technical Solutions.

The following table presents segment operating results:

---------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- -------------- ------- ----- -------------- ------- ----- ---- ---- - ---- - --- -- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and Service Revenues
Ingalls $ 2,555 $ 2,607 $ 2,420 $ (52) (2) % $ 187 8 %
Newport News 5,186 4,722 4,164 464 10 % 558 13 %
Technical Solutions 1,309 988 952 321 32 % 36 4 %
Intersegment eliminations (151) (141) (95) (10) (7) % (46) (48) %
Sales and service revenues $ 8,899 $ 8,176 $ 7,441 $ 723 9 % $ 735 10 %
Operating Income
Ingalls $ 235 $ 313 $ 313 $ (78) (25) % $ — — %
Newport News 390 318 354 72 23 % (36) (10) %
Technical Solutions 6 32 21 (26) (81) % 11 52 %

Segment operating income 631 663 688 (32) (5) % (25) (4) %
Non-segment factors affecting operating income
Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment 124 290 205 (166) (57) % 85 41 %
Non-current state income taxes (19) (2) (12) (17) (850) % 10 83 %
Operating income $ 736 $ 951 $ 881 $ (215) (23) % $ 70 8 %

KEY SEGMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES

Sales and Service Revenues

Period-to-period revenues reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. Changes in sales and service revenues are typically expressed in terms of volume. Unless otherwise described, volume generally refers to increases (or decreases) in reported revenues due to varying production activity levels, delivery rates, or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes will typically carry a corresponding income change based on the margin rate for a particular contract.

Segment Operating Income

Segment operating income reflects the aggregate performance results of contracts within a segment. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, such as the Operating FAS/CAS Adjustment and non-current state income taxes. Changes in segment operating income are typically expressed in terms of volume, as discussed above, or performance. Performance refers to changes in contract margin rates. These changes typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to EAC that reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance on that contract. Operating income changes are accounted for on a cumulative to date basis at the time an EAC change is recorded. Segment operating income may also be affected by, among other things, contract performance, the effects of workforce stoppages, the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes, resolution of disputed items with the customer, recovery of insurance proceeds, and other discrete events. At the completion of a long-term contract, any originally estimated costs not incurred or reserves not fully utilized, such as warranty reserves, could also impact contract earnings. Where such items have occurred and the effects are material, a separate description is provided.

45

Table of Contents
Ingalls

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- -------------- - ------- ----- -------------- ------- ---- - --- - - - --- - -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 2,555 $ 2,607 $ 2,420 $ (52) (2) % $ 187 8 %
Segment operating income 235 313 313 (78) (25) % — — %
As a percentage of segment sales 9.2 % 12.0 % 12.9 %

Sales and Service Revenues

2019 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, decreased $52 million, or 2%, in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily driven by lower revenues in the Legend class NSC program, surface combatants, and amphibious assault ships. Revenues on the Legend class NSC program decreased due to lower volumes on Kimball (NSC 7), Midgett (NSC 8), and Stone (NSC 9), partially offset by higher volumes on NSC 11 (unnamed) and Calhoun (NSC 10). Surface combatant revenues decreased as a result of lower volumes on Delbert D. Black (DDG 119), Paul Ignatius (DDG 117), Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), and Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), partially offset by higher volumes on Ted Stevens (DDG 128), USS Fitzgerald (DDG 62) repair and restoration, Jeremiah Denton (DDG 129), Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125), and George M. Neal (DDG 131). Amphibious assault ship revenues decreased as a result of lower volumes on Tripoli (LHA 7), Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), and the delivered USS Portland (LPD 27), as well as lower risk retirement on the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, partially offset by higher volumes on Bougainville (LHA 8), Harrisburg (LPD 30), Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29), and LPD Planning Yard and Life Cycle Engineering and Services.

2018 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $187 million, or 8%, in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by higher revenues in amphibious assault ships, partially offset by lower revenues in surface combatants and the Legend class NSC program. Amphibious assault ship revenues increased as a result of higher volumes on Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29), Bougainville (LHA 8), and Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), partially offset by lower volumes on the delivered USS Portland (LPD 27) and Tripoli (LHA 7). Surface combatant revenues decreased due to lower volumes on the delivered USS Ralph Johnson (DDG 114), Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), Paul Ignatius (DDG 117), and the delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), partially offset by higher volumes on USS Fitzgerald (DDG 62) repair and restoration, Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125), and Ted Stevens (DDG 128). Revenues on the Legend class NSC program decreased due to lower volumes on USCGC Kimball (NSC 7) and Midgett (NSC 8), as well as lower risk retirement across the NSC program, partially offset by higher volumes on Stone (NSC 9) and Calhoun (NSC 10).

Segment Operating Income

2019 - Ingalls operating income in 2019 was $235 million, compared to income of $313 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower risk retirement on the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program and Tripoli (LHA 7) and recoveries related to a 2018 settlement agreement.

2018 - Ingalls operating income remained stable from 2017 to 2018 at $313 million, as recoveries related to a settlement agreement, higher risk retirement on Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, and the higher volumes described above were offset by lower risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and the Legend class NSC program.

Newport News

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- --- ---- ----- -------------- - ------- ----- -------------- ------- --- ---- -- - ---- - --- -- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 5,186 $ 4,722 $ 4,164 $ 464 10 % $ 558 13 %
Segment operating income 390 318 354 72 23 % (36) (10) %
As a percentage of segment sales 7.5 % 6.7 % 8.5 %

46

Table of Contents
Sales and Service Revenues

2019 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $464 million, or 10%, in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily driven by higher revenues in aircraft carriers, submarines, and naval nuclear support services. Aircraft carrier revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes on Enterprise (CVN 80), the advance planning contract for the RCOH of USS John C. Stennis (CVN 74), and Doris Miller (CVN 81), partially offset by lower volumes on the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73) and John F. Kennedy (CVN 79). Submarine revenues related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program increased as a result of higher volumes on Block V and Block IV boats, offset by lower volumes on Block III boats. Naval nuclear support services revenues increased primarily as a result of contract changes on submarine support services and higher volume in facility maintenance services.

2018 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $558 million, or 13%, in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by higher revenues in aircraft carriers and naval nuclear support services, partially offset by lower revenues in submarines. Aircraft carrier revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes on the execution contract for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73) and the advance planning contract for Enterprise (CVN 80), partially offset by lower volumes on the inactivation of the decommissioned aircraft carrier Enterprise (CVN 65) and the execution contract for the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72). Naval nuclear support services revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes in submarine support and facility maintenance services. Submarine revenues related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program decreased due to lower volumes and performance on Block III boats, partially offset by higher volumes on Block IV and Block V boats.

Segment Operating Income

2019 - Newport News operating income in 2019 was $390 million, compared to income of $318 million in 2018. The increase was primarily due to contract changes on submarine support services, the higher volumes described above, and higher risk retirement on the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73), partially offset by favorable changes in workers' compensation expense in 2018.

2018 - Newport News operating income in 2018 was $318 million, compared to income of $354 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower performance in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, including Delaware (SSN 791) and Montana (SSN 794), the resolution in 2017 of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), as well as one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act, partially offset by favorable changes in workers' compensation expense and the increased volume described above.

Technical Solutions

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- --- ---- --- -------------- - ------- ---- -------------- ------- --- -- -- - -- - -- - -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 1,309 $ 988 $ 952 $ 321 32 % $ 36 4 %
Segment operating income 6 32 21 (26) (81) % 11 52 %
As a percentage of segment sales 0.5 % 3.2 % 2.2 %

Sales and Service Revenues

2019 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased $321 million, or 32%, compared to 2018, primarily due to higher MDIS revenues attributable to the additions of Fulcrum and G2, as well as higher fleet support and oil and gas revenues.

2018 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2018, increased $36 million, or 4%, compared to 2017, primarily due to higher revenues in oil and gas services and MDIS services, partially offset by lower nuclear and environmental and fleet support revenues.

47

Table of Contents
Segment Operating Income

2019 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2019, was $6 million, compared to operating income of $32 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a goodwill impairment at our oil and gas reporting unit and a loss on a fleet support services contract, partially offset by higher equity income from our nuclear and environmental joint ventures and one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act.

2018 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2018, was $32 million, compared to operating income of $21 million in 2017. The increase was primarily due to an allowance for accounts receivable in 2017 on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract and higher income from operating investments at our nuclear and environmental joint ventures, partially offset by one time employee bonus payments in 2018 related to the Tax Act and lower performance in fleet support services.

BACKLOG

Total backlog as of December 31, 2019, was approximately $46.5 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded IDIQ orders. For contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer.

The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment as of December 31, 2019 and 2018:

------------------- ----------------- ------ -------- ------ ------- ------ ----------------- -------- ------ ------- ----- ------ ------ - ----- - ------
 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
 Total Total
($ in millions) Funded Unfunded Backlog Funded Unfunded Backlog
Ingalls $ 9,062 $ 1,693 $ 10,755 $ 9,943 $ 1,422 $ 11,365
Newport News 8,414 26,352 34,766 6,767 4,144 10,911
Technical Solutions 435 538 973 339 380 719
Total backlog $ 17,911 $ 28,583 $ 46,494 $ 17,049 $ 5,946 $ 22,995

We expect approximately 17% of the $46.5 billion total backlog as of December 31, 2019, to be converted into sales in 2020. U.S. Government orders comprised substantially all of the backlog as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Awards

2019 - The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2019, was approximately $32.3 billion. Significant new awards during the period included contracts for the detail design and construction of the Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Enterprise (CVN 80) and Doris Miller (CVN 81), Block V of the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and the San Antonio class (LPD 17) amphibious transport dock Harrisburg (LPD 30).

2018 - The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2018, was approximately $9.8 billion. Significant new awards during the period included contracts for the construction of three Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, for the detail design and construction of Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29), for procurement of long-lead-time material for Enterprise (CVN 80), and for the construction of Calhoun (NSC 10) and NSC 11 (unnamed).

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We endeavor to ensure the most efficient conversion of operating results into cash for deployment in operating our businesses, implementing our business strategy, and maximizing stockholder value. We use various financial measures to assist in capital deployment decision making, including net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow. We believe these measures are useful to investors in assessing our financial performance.

48

Table of Contents
The following table summarizes key components of cash flow provided by operating activities:

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- ----- ---- --- -------------- ------- ----- -------------- ------- ----- ----- ---- - ----- - --- -- -
 Year Ended December 31 2019 over 2018 2018 over 2017
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Net earnings $ 549 $ 836 $ 479 $ (287) (34) % $ 357 75 %
Depreciation and amortization 230 207 211 23 11 % (4) (2) %
Provision for doubtful accounts (6) (4) 10 (2) (50) % (14) (140) %
Stock-based compensation 30 36 34 (6) (17) % 2 6 %
Deferred income taxes 97 10 184 87 870 % (174) (95) %
Retiree benefit funding in excess of expense 80 (454) (163) 534 118 % (291) (179) %

Goodwill impairment 29 — — 29 — % — — %
Loss on early extinguishment of debt — — 22 — — % (22) (100) %
Trade working capital decrease (increase) (113) 283 37 (396) (140) % 246 665 %
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 896 $ 914 $ 814 $ (18) (2) % $ 100 12 %

Cash Flows

We discuss below our major operating, investing, and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2019, as classified in our consolidated statements of cash flows.

Operating Activities

2019 - Cash provided by operating activities was $896 million in 2019, compared to $914 million in 2018. The change of $18 million in operating cash flow was primarily due to a change in trade working capital, partially offset by decreased funding of retiree benefit plans. The change in trade working capital was primarily driven by the timing of payments of accounts payable.

We expect cash generated from operations in 2020, in combination with our current cash and cash equivalents, as well as existing credit facilities, to be sufficient to service debt and retiree benefit plans, meet contractual obligations, and finance capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months.

2018 - Cash provided by operating activities was $914 million in 2018, compared to $814 million in 2017. The increase of $100 million in operating cash flow was primarily due to a change in trade working capital and lower income tax payments, partially offset by increased funding of retiree benefit plans. The change in trade working capital was primarily driven by the timing of payments of accounts payable.

Investing Activities

2019 - Cash used in investing activities was $627 million in 2019, an increase of $151 million from 2018. The change in investing cash flow was driven by the acquisition of Fulcrum and higher capital expenditures, partially offset by the acquisiton of G2, Inc. in 2018 and investments in nuclear and environmental joint ventures in 2018.

For 2020, we expect our capital expenditures for maintenance and sustainment to be approximately 1.0% of annual revenues and our discretionary capital expenditures to be approximately 3.0% to 4.0% of annual revenues.

2018 - Cash used in investing activities was $476 million in 2018, an increase of $127 million from 2017. The change in investing cash flow was driven by the acquisition of G2, Inc., higher capital expenditures, and investments in nuclear and environmental joint ventures in 2018, partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of Avondale.

Financing Activities

2019 - Cash used in financing activities in 2019 was $434 million, compared to $899 million used in 2018. The change was primarily due to decreases of $480 million of common stock repurchases and $2 million in employee tax withholdings on share-based payment arrangements, partially offset by an increase of $17 million of cash dividend payments.

49

Table of Contents
2018 - Cash used in financing activities in 2018 was $899 million, compared to $484 million used in 2017. The change was primarily due to increases of $456 million of common stock repurchases and $17 million of cash dividend payments, partially offset by decreases of $31 million in employee tax withholdings on share-based payment arrangements and $27 million of debt related expenditures.

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow represents cash provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures net of related grant proceeds. Free cash flow is not a measure recognized under GAAP. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity measure for our investors because it provides them insight into our current and period-to-period performance and our ability to generate cash from continuing operations. We also use free cash flow as a key operating metric in assessing the performance of our business and as a key performance measure in evaluating management performance and determining incentive compensation. Free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:

--------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- - --- ----- - ---
 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 896 $ 914 $ 814
Less capital expenditures:
Capital expenditure additions (530) (463) (382)
Grant proceeds for capital expenditures 94 61 21
Free cash flow $ 460 $ 512 $ 453

2019 - Free cash flow decreased $52 million from 2018, primarily due to a change in trade working capital and higher capital expenditures, partially offset by decreased funding of retiree benefit plans.

2018 - Free cash flow increased $59 million from 2017, primarily due to a change in trade working capital and lower income tax payments, partially offset by increased funding of retiree benefit plans and higher capital expenditures.

Retirement Related Benefit Plan Contributions

ERISA, including amendments under pension relief, defines the minimum amount that must be contributed to our qualified defined benefit pension plans. In determining whether to make discretionary contributions to these plans above the minimum required amounts, we consider various factors, including maintaining the funded status needed to avoid potential benefit restrictions and other adverse consequences, maintaining minimum CAS funding requirements, and the current and anticipated future funding levels of each plan. The contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans are affected by a number of factors, including published IRS interest rates, the actual return on plan assets, actuarial assumptions, and demographic experience. These factors and our resulting contributions also impact the plans' funded statuses. We made the following minimum and discretionary contributions to our pension and other postretirement plans in the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

------------------- ---------------------- -- ---- -- ---- --- -- - ---
 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Pension plans

Discretionary
Qualified $ 21 $ 508 $ 294
Non-qualified 7 8 7
Other benefit plans 31 30 34
Total contributions $ 59 $ 546 $ 335

We made discretionary contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans totaling $21 million, $508 million, and $294 million in the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.

50

Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our qualified pension plans were funded 89% and 90%, respectively, on a FAS basis. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, these plans were sufficiently funded on an ERISA basis so as not to be subject to benefit payment restrictions. The funded percentages under ERISA and FAS vary due to inherent differences in the assumptions and methodologies used to calculate the respective obligations. We expect our 2020 cash contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans to be $205 million, all of which we anticipate will be discretionary and which are exclusive of CAS cost recoveries in our contracts. Due to the differences in calculation methodologies, our FAS expense is not necessarily representative of our funding requirements or CAS cost recoveries.

Other postretirement benefit contributions were $31 million, $30 million, and $34 million in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. We expect our 2020 contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans to be approximately $33 million, which are exclusive of CAS cost recoveries in our contracts. Contributions for postretirement benefits are not required to be funded in advance and are paid on an as-incurred basis.

Other Sources and Uses of Capital

Stockholder Distributions - In November 2019, our board of directors authorized an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $1.03 per share. The board previously increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.86 per share in November 2018 and $0.72 per share in November 2017. We paid cash dividends totaling $149 million ($3.61 per share), $132 million ($3.02 per share), and $115 million ($2.52 per share) in the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.

In November 2019, our board of directors authorized an increase to our stock repurchase program from $2.2 billion to $3.2 billion and an extension of the term of the program to October 31, 2024. Repurchases are made from time to time at management's discretion in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased 1,005,762 shares at an aggregate cost of $214 million. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we repurchased 3,620,916 and 1,417,808 shares, respectively, at aggregate costs of $788 million and $288 million, respectively, of which $48 million and $2 million, respectively, were not yet settled for cash as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The cost of repurchased shares is recorded as treasury stock in the consolidated statements of financial position.

Additional Capital - In June 2018, we completed an exchange of $600 million aggregate principal amount of registered 3.483% senior notes due December 2027 for all of the then outstanding unregistered senior notes due December 2027. We also have outstanding $600 million aggregate principal amount of unregistered 5.000% senior notes due November 2025. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually.

In November 2017, we terminated our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with third-party lenders and entered into a new Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with third-party lenders. The Credit Facility includes a revolving credit facility of $1,250 million, which may be drawn upon during a period of five years from November 22, 2017. The revolving credit facility includes a letter of credit subfacility of $500 million. The revolving credit facility has a variable interest rate on outstanding borrowings based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a spread based upon our credit rating, which may vary between 1.125% and 1.500%. The revolving credit facility also has a commitment fee rate on the unutilized balance based on our credit rating. The commitment fee rate as of December 31, 2019 was 0.25% and may vary between 0.20% and 0.30%.

As of December 31, 2019, we had $16 million in issued but undrawn letters of credit and $1,234 million unutilized under the Credit Facility.

In October 2019, we established an unsecured commercial paper note program, under which we may issue up to $1 billion of unsecured commercial paper notes.

We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants as of and during the year ended December 31, 2019. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 15: Debt in Item 8.

51

Table of Contents
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of December 31, 2019, our total outstanding long-term debt was $1,286 million, consisting of senior notes and other third-party debt. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 15: Debt in Item 8.

On March 29, 2011, HII entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement (the "Separation Agreement") with its former parent company, Northrop Grumman Corporation ("Northrop Grumman"), and Northrop Grumman's subsidiaries (Northrop Grumman Shipbuilding, Inc. and Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation), pursuant to which HII was legally and structurally separated from Northrop Grumman. For the year ended December 31, 2018, HII received $8 million from Northrop Grumman under the Separation Agreement. HII had $84 million outstanding under Industrial Revenue Bonds issued by the Mississippi Business Finance Corporation as of each of December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018. Prior to the spin-off, repayment of principal and interest was guaranteed by Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation. The guaranty remains in effect, and HII has agreed to indemnify Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation for any losses related to the guaranty.

The following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019, and the estimated timing of related future cash payments:

----------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----------- ----- ----------- --------------- ----- --- --- - -----
($ in millions) Total 2020 2021 - 2022 2023 - 2024 2025 and beyond
Long-term debt $ 1,305 $ — $ — $ 84 $ 1,221
Interest payments on long-term debt 398 62 124 115 97
Operating leases 273 45 68 46 114
Purchase obligations (1) 4,263 2,026 1,576 396 265
Other long-term liabilities (2) 937 93 142 112 590
Total contractual obligations $ 7,176 $ 2,226 $ 1,910 $ 753 $ 2,287

(1) A "purchase obligation" is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on us and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts.
(2) Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of total accrued workers' compensation reserves, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities, of which $225 million is the current portion of workers' compensation liabilities. It excludes obligations for uncertain tax positions of $38 million, including penalties and interest, for which the timing of the payments, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated.

The preceding table excludes retirement related contributions. Amounts for retirement related contributions depend on plan provisions, actuarial assumptions, actual plan asset performance, and other factors described above under Retirement Related Benefit Plans under Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments and under Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Further details regarding long-term debt and operating leases can be found in Note 15: Debt and Note 18: Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued by commercial banks to support certain leases, insurance policies, and contractual performance obligations, as well as surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to support our self-insured workers' compensation plans. As of December 31, 2019, $16 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn and $273 million of surety bonds were outstanding. As of December 31, 2019, we had no other significant off-balance sheet arrangements.

52

Table of Contents
GLOSSARY OF PROGRAMS

Included below are brief descriptions of some of the programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Program Name Program Description

America class (LHA 6) amphibious assault ships Design and build large deck amphibious assault ships that provide forward presence and power projection as an integral part of joint, interagency and multinational maritime expeditionary forces. The America class (LHA 6) ships, together with the Wasp class (LHD 1) ships, are the successors to the decommissioned Tarawa class (LHA 1) ships. The America class (LHA 6) ships optimize aviation operations and support capabilities. We delivered USS America (LHA 6) in April 2014, Tripoli (LHA 7) is scheduled for delivery in 2020, and we are currently constructing Bougainville (LHA 8).

Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers Build guided missile destroyers designed for conducting anti-air, anti-submarine, anti-surface, and strike operations. The Aegis-equipped Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers are the U.S. Navy's primary surface combatant, and have been constructed in variants, allowing technological advances during construction. In 2016 we delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), and in 2017 we delivered Ralph Johnson (DDG 114), and in 2019 we delivered Paul Ignatius (DDG 117). We have contracts to construct the following Arleigh Burke class (DDG51) destoyers: Delbert D. Black (DDG 119), Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125), Ted Stevens (DDG 128), Jeremiah Denton (DDG 129), George M. Neal (DDG 131), Sam Nunn (DDG 133), DDG 135 (unnamed), and DDG 137 (unnamed).

Carrier RCOH Perform refueling and complex overhaul ("RCOH") of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, which is required at the mid-point of their 50-year life cycle. USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72) was redelivered to the U.S. Navy in the second quarter of 2017 and USS George Washington (CVN 73) arrived at Newport News for the start of its RCOH in August 2017.

Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarines Newport News is participating in designing the Columbia class submarine as a replacement for the current aging Ohio class nuclear ballistic missile submarines, which were first introduced into service in 1981. The Ohio class SSBN includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines. The Columbia class program plan of record is to construct 12 new ballistic missile submarines. The U.S. Navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarines, and, in early 2017, the DOD signed the acquisition decision memorandum approving the Columbia class program’s Milestone B, which formally authorizes the program’s entry into the engineering and manufacturing development phase. We perform design work as a subcontractor to Electric Boat, and we have entered into a teaming agreement with Electric Boat to build modules for the entire Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine program that leverages our Virginia class (SSN 774) experience. We have been awarded contracts from Electric Boat to begin integrated product and process development and provide long-lead-time material and advance construction for the Columbia class (SSBN 826) program. Construction of the first Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine is expected to begin in 2021.

53

Table of Contents

--------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fleet support services Provide comprehensive life-cycle sustainment services to the U.S. Navy fleet and other DoD and commercial maritime customers. We provide services including maintenance, modernization, and repair on all ship classes; naval architecture, marine engineering, and design; integrated logistics support; technical documentation development; warehousing, asset management, and material readiness; operational and maintenance training development and delivery; software design and development; IT infrastructure support and data delivery and management; and cyber security and information assurance. We provide undersea vehicle and specialized craft development and prototyping services.

USS Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Design and construction for the Ford class program, which is the aircraft carrier replacement program for the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and Nimitz class (CVN 68) aircraft carriers. USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), the first ship of the Ford class, was delivered to the U.S. Navy in the second quarter of 2017. In June 2015, we were awarded a contract for the detail design and construction of John F. Kennedy (CVN 79), following several years of engineering, advance construction, and purchase of long-lead time components and material. In addition, we have received awards for detail design and construction of Enterprise (CVN 80) and Doris Miller (CVN 81). This category also includes the class' non-recurring engineering. The class is expected to bring improved warfighting capability, quality of life improvements for sailors, and reduced life cycle costs.

Legend class National Security Cutter Design and build the U.S. Coast Guard's National Security Cutters ("NSCs"), the largest and most technically advanced class of cutter in the U.S. Coast Guard. The NSC is equipped to carry out maritime homeland security, maritime safety, protection of natural resources, maritime mobility, and national defense missions. The plan is for a total of 11 ships, of which the first eight ships have been delivered. Stone (NSC 9), Calhoun (NSC 10), and NSC 11 (unnamed) are currently under construction.

MDIS services Provide services to DoD, intelligence, and federal civilian customers. Services are performed in six major portfolio areas: modeling, simulation and training, information technology and software application, artificial intelligence and data analytics, mission engineering and operations support, logistics and life cycle management, and cyber space operations.

Naval nuclear support services Provide services to and in support of the U.S. Navy, ranging from services supporting the Navy's carrier and submarine fleets to maintenance services at U.S. Navy training facilities. Naval nuclear support services include design, construction, maintenance, and disposal activities for in service U.S. Navy nuclear ships worldwide through mobile and in-house capabilities. Services include maintenance services on nuclear reactor prototypes.

Nuclear and environmental services Provide services in nuclear management and operations, and nuclear and non-nuclear fabrication and repair. We provide site management, nuclear and industrial facilities operations and maintenance, decontamination and decommissioning, and radiological and hazardous waste management services. We provide services, including fabrication, equipment repair, and technical engineering services. We participate in several joint ventures, including N3B, MSTS, and SRNS. N3B was awarded the Los Alamos Legacy Cleanup Contract at the DoE/National Nuclear Security Administration’s Los Alamos National Laboratory. MSTS was awarded a contract for site management and operations at the Nevada National Security Site. SRNS provides site management and operations at the DoE's Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina.

54

Table of Contents

---------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oil and gas services Deliver engineering, procurement, and construction management services to the oil and gas industry for major pipeline, production, and treatment facilities. These services include full life-cycle services for domestic and international projects, from concept identification through detail design, execution and construction, and decommissioning. Related field services include survey, inspection, commissioning and start-up, operations and maintenance, and optimization and debottlenecking.

San Antonio class (LPD 17) amphibious transport dock ships Design and build amphibious transport dock ships, which are warships that embark, transport, and land elements of a landing force for a variety of expeditionary warfare missions, and also serve as the secondary aviation platform for Amphibious Readiness Groups. The San Antonio class (LPD 17) is the newest addition to the U.S. Navy's 21st century amphibious assault force, and these ships are a key element of the U.S. Navy's seabase transformation. In 2013, we delivered USS Somerset (LPD 25), in 2016, we delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), and, in 2017, we delivered USS Portland (LPD 27). We are currently constructing Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), Richard M. McCool Jr. (LPD 29), and Harrisburg (LPD 30).

The decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) Defuel and inactivate the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which began in 2013. The inactivation was completed in the second quarter of 2018.

Virginia class (SSN 774) fast attack submarines Construct attack submarines as the principal subcontractor to Electric Boat. The Virginia class (SSN 774) is a post-Cold War design tailored to excel in a wide range of warfighting missions, including anti-submarine and surface ship warfare; special operation forces; strike; intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; carrier and expeditionary strike group support; and mine warfare.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 8]:
(8) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-177561) pertaining to Netflix, Inc. 2011 Stock Plan; of our reports dated January 29, 2020, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Netflix, Inc. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Netflix, Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Netflix, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2019. -------------------- --------------------- /s/ Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California January 29, 2020 EX-31.1 5 ex311q419.htm EXHIBIT 31.1 Exhibit EXHIBIT 31.1 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 I, Reed Hastings, certify that: -- ----------------------------------------------------------------- 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Netflix, Inc.; -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; -- -------...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill and intangible assets, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience and Publishing. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing business in a third segment that contains some of our mature products and solutions. In fiscal 2019, we categorized our products into the following reportable segments: - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ * Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experien...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 84

[See Note 19]:
Note 19 -- Commitments and Contingencies 126

[See Note 19]:
Note 19 -- Commitments and Contingencies 126

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 89

[see Note 15]:
Note 15 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 89

[see Note 15]:
Note 15 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 89

['S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Our Business

Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. is America’s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, our Ingalls segment in Mississippi and Newport News segment in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. We also provide a range of services to the governmental, energy, and oil and gas markets through our Technical Solutions segment. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, HII employs approximately 42,000 people both domestically and internationally.

We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. Our Technical Solutions segment provides a wide range of professional services, including fleet support, MDIS, nuclear and environmental, and oil and gas services.

The following discussion should be read along with the audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Environment

Long-term uncertainty exists with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years']:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31

['s littoral combat ship and have expressed interest in the future frigate program.

The DoD continues to adjust its procurement practices and streamline acquisition organizations and processes in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. Additionally, the U.S. Navy must compete with other national priorities, including other defense activities, non-defense discretionary spending, and entitlement programs, for a share of federal budget funding. While the impact to our business resulting from these developments remains uncertain, they could have a material impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the DoD. See Risk Factors in Item 1A.

Program Descriptions

For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is included in the Glossary of Programs.

CONTRACTS

We generate most of our revenues from long-term U.S. Government contracts for design, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs, including allowable general and administrative expenses. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are treated as allowable and allocable costs under the FAR and CAS regulations. Examples of costs incurred by us that are not allowable under the FAR and CAS regulations include certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense, and advertising costs.

We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, the DCAA routinely audits the costs we incur that are allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government.

Our contracts typically fall into one of four categories: firm fixed-price, fixed-price incentive, cost-type, and time and materials. See Note 8: Revenue in Item 8.

•Firm Fixed-Price Contracts - A firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is predetermined by bid or negotiation and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor.

30

Table of Contents
•Fixed-Price Incentive Contracts - Fixed-price incentive contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal, asset decommissioning, and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts as of each of December 31, 2019 and 2018, were immaterial. See Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8.

We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations related to assets currently in use, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that were not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2019, due to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, the fair value of these obligations has not been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Environmental remediation and/or asset decommissioning of facilities currently in use may be required when we cease to utilize these facilities. In addition, there may be conditional environmental asset retirement obligations that we have not yet discovered (for example, asbestos of which we have not become aware through

34

Table of Contents
normal business operations may exist in certain buildings), and these obligations have therefore not been included in our consolidated financial statements.

Litigation Accruals - Litigation accruals are recorded as charges to earnings when management has determined, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Based upon the information available, we believe that the resolution of any of these various legal proceedings will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Uncertain Tax Positions - Uncertain tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, based on the merits of the position, are recognized in the financial statements. We recognize the amount of a tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. If a tax position does not meet the minimum statutory threshold to avoid payment of penalties, we recognize an expense for the amount of the penalty in the period the tax position is claimed or expected to be claimed in our tax return. Penalties and accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as a component of income tax expense. See Note 14: Income Taxes in Item 8. Changes in accruals associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in earnings in the period they are determined.

Retirement Related Benefit Plans

We recognize, on a plan-by-plan basis, the funded status of our retirement related benefit plans as an asset or liability on our balance sheet, with corresponding adjustments to after-tax accumulated other comprehensive loss and deferred tax assets or liabilities. The funded status represents the difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. See Note 19: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8.

We calculate our retirement related benefit plan costs under both CAS and U.S. GAAP Financial Accounting Standards ("]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 89 ------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s underlying assets.

Management reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements, Note 19: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in Item 8.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss - Changes in assumptions and changes to plan assets and benefit obligations due to differences plan amendments. As disclosed in Note 19: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8, net pre-tax unrecognized actuarial losses as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $1,855 million and obligations, $102 million of amortization of previously unrecognized actuarial losses, and actual asset returns, which were $825 million above expected returns.

Net pre-tax unrecognized prior service costs (credits) as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $50 million and $46 million, respectively. These net deferred costs (credits) primarily originated from plan amendments, including those resulting from collective bargaining agreements. The change in unrecognized prior service costs (credits) in 2019 resulted from the amortization of previously accumulated prior service costs (credits).

Workers']:
Note 19 -- Commitments and Contingencies 126