================================================================================
CIK: 0000059478
Company Name: ELI LILLY & Co
Filing Date: 2022-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 04:42:27
================================================================================

Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(Tables present dollars in millions, except per-share data)

General
Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is intended to assist the reader in understanding and assessing significant changes and trends related to the results of operations and financial position of our consolidated company. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Certain statements in this Item 7 constitute forward-looking statements. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in "Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors," may cause our actual results, financial position, and cash generated from operations to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
Executive Overview
This section provides an overview of our financial results, recent product and late-stage pipeline developments, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Earnings per share (EPS) data are presented on a diluted basis.
COVID-19 Pandemic
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have focused on maintaining a supply of our medicines; reducing the strain on the medical system; developing treatments for COVID-19; protecting the health, safety, and well-being of our employees; supporting our communities; and ensuring affordability of and access to our medicines, particularly insulin. As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and at the request of the United States (U.S.) and international governments, we invested in large-scale manufacturing of COVID-19 antibodies at risk, in order to ensure rapid access to patients around the world.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted Emergency Use Authorizations (EUA) for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together for higher-risk patients who have been recently diagnosed with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 and for baricitinib for treatment with or without remdesivir in hospitalized COVID-19 patients. In the third quarter of 2021, the FDA expanded the EUA for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together to include post-exposure prophylaxis in certain individuals for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection. We expect that additional revenue from the sale of bamlanivimab and etesevimab after the first quarter of 2022 will be limited. In February 2022, the FDA granted an EUA for bebtelovimab for certain high-risk patients who have been recently diagnosed with mild-to-moderate COVID-19. We have agreed with the U.S. government to supply up to 600,000 doses of bebtelovimab no later than March 31, 2022 for at least $720 million with an option of 500,000 additional doses no later than July 31, 2022. The FDA has revised, and may in the future revise, any EUA for our COVID-19 therapies in response to the prevalence of variants against which our therapies have varying degrees of efficacy.
The COVID-19 pandemic has, and may continue to, adversely impact our business and operations. The focus of resources on COVID-19, widespread protective measures implemented to control the spread of COVID-19, and the resulting strain on global transportation, manufacturing, and labor markets have negatively impacted development, manufacturing, supply, distribution, and sales of our medicines. In addition to decreases in new prescriptions, changes in payer segment mix, and the increased use of patient affordability programs in the U.S., we have experienced, and may continue to experience if the COVID-19 pandemic undergoes resurgent or more severe waves, decreased demand as a result of lack of "normal" access and fewer in-person interactions by patients and our employees with healthcare professionals.

34

We also face risks and uncertainties related to our COVID-19 therapies, including heightened regulatory scrutiny of our manufacturing practices, quality assurance, and similar regulations, restrictions on administration that limit widespread and timely access to our therapies, and risks related to handling, return, and/or refund of product after delivery by us. The availability of superior or competitive therapies, including therapies that can be administered more easily, or preventative measures such as vaccines, coupled with the unpredictable nature of pandemics, have and could further negatively impact or eliminate demand for our COVID-19 therapies. Mutations or the spread of other variants of the coronavirus have in some cases impacted the effectiveness of our COVID-19 therapies, and may further render our therapies more or less effective or ineffective.
The strain on global transportation, logistics, and labor markets caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and an increase in overall demand in our industry for certain materials resulting in changed buying patterns and constrained supply have had, and may continue to have, a number of impacts on our business, including increased costs to provide a consistent supply of our medicines where they are needed and potential disruptions in the supply of our medications. These factors may negatively affect our results of operations.
It remains difficult to reasonably assess or predict the full extent of the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect us will depend on developments that are highly uncertain and beyond our knowledge or control. We are currently unable to predict the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic or any future pandemic, epidemic or similar public health threat will adversely impact our business and operations in the future.
See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for additional information on risk factors that could impact our business and operations.
Financial Results
The following table summarizes our key operating results:

---------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- -------- -------------- --------- - -------- ---- --
 Year Ended December 31 Percent Change
 2021 2020
Revenue $ 28,318.4 $ 24,539.8 15
Gross margin 21,005.6 19,056.5 10
Gross margin as a percent of revenue 74.2 % 77.7 %
Operating expenses $ 13,457.5 $ 12,206.9 10
Acquired in-process research and development 874.9 660.4 32
Asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges 316.1 131.2 NM
Other—net, (income) expense 201.6 (1,171.9) NM
Income before income taxes 6,155.5 7,229.9 (15)
Income taxes 573.8 1,036.2 (45)

Net income 5,581.7 6,193.7 (10)

EPS 6.12 6.79 (10)

NM - not meaningful
Revenue increased in 2021 driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. Operating expenses, defined as the sum of research and development and marketing, selling, and administrative expenses, increased in 2021, driven primarily by higher development expenses for late-stage assets. The decreases in net income and EPS in 2021 were driven primarily by reduction in other-net, (income) expense and higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher gross margin.

35

The following highlighted items affect comparisons of our 2021 and 2020 financial results:
2021
Cost of Sales (See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements)
•We recognized a net inventory impairment charge related to our COVID-19 antibodies of $339.7 million. As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and at the request of the U.S. and international governments, we invested in large-scale manufacturing of COVID-19 antibodies at risk, in order to ensure rapid access to patients around the world. As the COVID-19 pandemic evolved during 2021, we incurred a net inventory impairment charge primarily due to the combination of changes to current and forecasted demand from U.S. and international governments, including changes to our agreement with the U.S. government, and near-term expiry dates of COVID-19 antibodies.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D) (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements)
•We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $874.9 million related to business development transactions.
Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements)
•We recognized charges of $316.1 million primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo Oncology, Inc. (Loxo), an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza®, as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail Therapeutics Inc. (Prevail).
Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements)
•We recognized a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt.
•We recognized $176.9 million of net investment gains on equity securities.
 2020
Acquired IPR&D (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements)
•We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $660.4 million related to business development transactions.
Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements)
•We recognized charges of $131.2 million primarily related to severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken worldwide to reduce our cost structure.
Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements)
•We recognized $1.44 billion of net investment gains on equity securities.

36

Late-Stage Pipeline
Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative new medicines. We currently have approximately 45 new medicine candidates in clinical development or under regulatory review, and a larger number of projects in the discovery phase.
The following certain new molecular entities (NMEs) are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NMEs, including certain other developments since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021.

---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Compound Indication Status Developments
COVID-19 Antibodies
Bebtelovimab (LY-CoV1404) COVID-19 Emergency Use Authorization The FDA granted EUA for certain high-risk patients recently diagnosed with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in February 2022.
Diabetes
Tirzepatide Type 2 diabetes Submitted Submitted in the U.S. using a priority review voucher and in Europe and Japan in 2021.
Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing.
Obesity
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing.
Basal Insulin-Fc Type 1 and 2 diabetes Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing.
GGG Tri-Agonist Obesity Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing.
Type 2 diabetes
GLP-1R NPA Obesity Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing.
Type 2 diabetes
Immunology
Lebrikizumab(1) Atopic dermatitis Phase III Granted FDA Fast Track designation(2). Announced in 2021 that Phase III trials met primary and all key secondary endpoints. Phase III trials are ongoing.
Mirikizumab Crohn's Disease Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing.
Ulcerative colitis Announced in 2021 that Phase III trials met primary and all key secondary endpoints.
CXCR1/2 Ligands Monoclonal Antibody Hidradenitis suppurativa Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing.
IL-2 Conjugate Systemic lupus erythematosus Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing.
Ulcerative colitis
PD-1 MAB Agonist Rheumatoid arthritis Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing.

37

------------------------------- --------------------------------- ----------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Compound Indication Status Developments
Neuroscience
Donanemab Early Alzheimer's disease Submission initiated Granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation(3). Initiated a rolling submission in the U.S. for accelerated approval in 2021. Phase III trials are ongoing.
Preclinical Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing.
Solanezumab Preclinical Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing.
Epiregulin/TGFα MAB Chronic pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing.
GBA1 Gene Therapy (PR001) Parkinson's disease Phase II Acquired in the Prevail acquisition in 2021. Granted FDA Fast Track designation(2). Phase II trials are ongoing.
GRN Gene Therapy (PR006) Frontotemporal dementia Phase II
O-glc-NAcase Alzheimer's disease Phase II Phase II trial initiated in the fourth quarter of 2021.
PACAP38 Antibody Chronic pain Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing.
SSTR4 Agonist Chronic pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing.
TRPA1 Antagonist Pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing.
Oncology
Selpercatinib (Retevmo®) Lung cancer Approved(4) Phase III trials are ongoing.
Thyroid cancer
Sintilimab injection(5) Lung cancer Submitted In February 2022, the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee recommended that the FDA require additional clinical trials prior to a final regulatory decision.
Pirtobrutinib (LOXO-305) Mantle cell lymphoma Submission initiated Initiated a rolling submission in the U.S. for accelerated approval in the fourth quarter of 2021. Phase II and Phase III trials are ongoing.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing.
B-cell malignancies Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing.
Imlunestrant ER+HER2- metastatic breast cancer Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing.

(1) In collaboration with Almirall, S.A. in Europe.
(2) Fast Track designation is designed to expedite the development and review of new therapies to treat serious conditions and address unmet medical needs.
(3) Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint.
(4) Continued approval may be contingent on verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory Phase III trials.
(5) In collaboration with Innovent Biologics, Inc.

38

Our pipeline also contains several new indication line extension (NILEX) products. The following certain NILEX products for use in the indication described are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NILEX products, including certain other developments since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021:

--------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Compound Indication Status Developments
Diabetes
Empagliflozin (Jardiance®)(1) Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Submitted Granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation(2) and FDA Fast Track designation(3). Submitted in the U.S. and Europe in 2021 and in Japan in January 2022. The FDA granted priority review for adults with heart failure independent of left ventricular ejection fraction.
Chronic kidney disease Phase III Granted FDA Fast Track designation(3). Phase III trials are ongoing.
Immunology
Baricitinib (Olumiant®) COVID-19 Emergency Use Authorization(4) Submitted in the U.S. and the FDA granted priority review in January 2022.
Alopecia areata Submitted Granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation(2). Submitted in U.S., Europe and Japan in 2021.
Systemic lupus erythematosus Discontinued Announced in January 2022 that, based on top-line efficacy results from Phase III trials, we discontinued development.

Oncology
Abemaciclib (Verzenio®) HR+, HER2- Adjuvant breast cancer Approved Approved in the U.S. and Japan in the fourth quarter of 2021.
Prostate cancer Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing.
HR+, HER2+ Adjuvant breast cancer Discontinued Announced in January 2022 that we will discontinue the Phase III trial in response to the changing treatment landscape and global enrollment challenges.

(1) In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim.
(2) Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint.
(3) Fast Track designation is designed to expedite the development and review of new therapies to treat serious conditions and address unmet medical needs.
(4) The FDA granted EUA for treatment with or without remdesivir in hospitalized COVID-19 patients.
There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products, as well as a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $2 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, limited scope of approved uses, label changes, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of new or better competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies establish high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products and indications. Delays and uncertainties in drug approval processes can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of new products and indications.

39

We manage research and development spending across our portfolio of potential new medicines. A delay in, or termination of, any one project will not necessarily cause a significant change in our total research and development spending. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the research and development process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our research and development projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from any successful research and development project. Each project represents only a portion of the overall pipeline, and none is individually material to our consolidated research and development expense. While we do accumulate certain research and development costs on a project level for internal reporting purposes, we must make significant cost estimations and allocations, some of which rely on data that are neither reproducible nor validated through accepted control mechanisms. Therefore, we do not have sufficiently reliable data to report on total research and development costs by project, by preclinical versus clinical spend, or by therapeutic category.
Other Matters
Patent Matters
We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property protection for most of our revenue, cash flows, and earnings.
In 2021, our vitamin regimen patents for Alimta® expired worldwide. Following the loss of patent exclusivity in major European countries and Japan, we faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition which has eroded revenue and is likely to continue to rapidly and severely erode revenue from current levels. In the U.S., we expect pediatric data exclusivity to provide us with protection through May 2022. However, we and Eagle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Eagle) reached an agreement in December 2019 to settle all pending U.S. patent litigation, allowing Eagle a limited initial entry into the market with its product starting February 2022 (up to an approximate three-week supply) and subsequent unlimited entry starting April 2022. We expect that the entry of generic competition in the U.S. following the loss of exclusivity will cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue and will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed account of the legal proceedings currently pending regarding, among others, our Alimta patents.
Our compound patent for Humalog® (insulin lispro) has expired in major markets. Global regulators have different legal pathways to approve similar versions of insulin lispro. A competitor has similar version of insulin lispro in the U.S. and in certain European markets. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of insulin lispro products entering the market, we do not expect and have not experienced a rapid and severe decline in revenue; however, we expect additional pricing pressure and some loss of market share that may continue over time.
Our formulation and use patents for Forteo® have expired in major markets. We expect further decline in revenue as a result of the entry of generic and biosimilar competition due to the loss of patent exclusivity in major markets.
Our regulatory data and patent exclusivity for Cymbalta® expired in Japan. Beginning in mid-2021, we have faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition which has eroded revenue and is likely to continue to rapidly and severely erode revenue from current levels.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rates
As a global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. While we seek to manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a material impact, either positive or negative, on operating expenses. While there is uncertainty in the future movements in foreign exchange rates, fluctuations in these rates could adversely impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows.

40

Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access
Global concern over access to and affordability of pharmaceutical products continues to drive regulatory and legislative debate, as well as worldwide cost containment efforts by governmental authorities. Such measures may include the use of mandated discounts, price reporting requirements, mandated reference prices, restrictive formularies, changes to available intellectual property protections, as well as other efforts. In addition, consolidation of private payors in the U.S. has significantly impacted the market for pharmaceuticals by increasing payor leverage in negotiating manufacturer price concessions and pharmacy reimbursement rates. Furthermore, restrictive or unfavorable pricing, coverage, or reimbursement determinations for our medicines or product candidates by governments, regulatory agencies, or private payers, such as the recently proposed Alzheimer’s Monoclonal Antibody national coverage determination, may adversely impact our business and financial results. We expect that these actions may intensify and could particularly affect certain products, such as insulin, as governments manage and emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we are engaged in litigation and investigations related to our 340B program that, if resolved adversely to us, could negatively impact our business and consolidated results of operations. It is not currently possible to predict the overall potential adverse impact to us or the general pharmaceutical industry of continued cost containment efforts worldwide.
In addition, evolving regulatory priorities have intensified governmental scrutiny of our operations and our industry, including with respect to current Good Manufacturing Practices, quality assurance, and similar regulations, and increased focus on business combinations in our industry. Any regulatory issues concerning these matters could lead to regulatory and legal actions, product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, delays or denials in the approvals of new products or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, impediments to the completion of business combinations, and reputational harm, any of which would adversely affect our business.
See Item 1, "Business - Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access" and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Tax Matters
We are subject to income taxes and various other taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions; therefore, changes in both domestic and international tax laws or regulations have affected and may affect our effective tax rate, results of operations, and cash flows. In 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act), which contains a provision that requires capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses for tax purposes starting in 2022. Previously, these expenses could be deducted in the year incurred. While this provision of the 2017 Tax Act is expected to have an immaterial impact on our consolidated results of operations, if it is not deferred or repealed by Congress, we expect that the implementation of this provision will increase our cash payments of income taxes by up to $1.50 billion in 2022 and subsequently decrease our cash payments of income taxes moderately over the five-year amortization period.
The U.S. and countries around the world are actively considering and enacting tax law changes. Tax proposals introduced by Congress and the U.S. presidential administration contain significant changes, including increases to the tax rates at which both domestic and foreign income of U.S. companies would be taxed. In addition, tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business routinely examine our tax returns and are intensifying their scrutiny and examinations of profit allocations among jurisdictions, which could adversely impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Further, actions taken with respect to tax-related matters by associations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Commission could influence tax laws in countries in which we operate.

41

Acquisitions
We opportunistically invest in external research and technologies that we believe complement and strengthen our own efforts. These investments can take many forms, including acquisitions, collaborations, investments, and licensing arrangements. We view our business development activity as a way to enhance our pipeline and strengthen our business.
In January 2021, we acquired all shares of Prevail for a purchase price that included $22.50 per share in cash (or an aggregate of $747.4 million, net of cash acquired) plus one non-tradable contingent value right (CVR) per share. The CVR entitles Prevail stockholders up to an additional $4.00 per share in cash (or an aggregate of approximately $160 million) payable, subject to certain terms and conditions, upon the first regulatory approval of a Prevail product in one of the following countries: U.S., Japan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, or Spain. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired potentially disease-modifying AAV9-based gene therapies for patients with neurodegenerative diseases. The acquisition establishes a new modality for drug discovery and development, extending our research efforts through the creation of a gene therapy program that is being anchored by Prevail's portfolio of assets.
In February 2020, we acquired all shares of Dermira, Inc. for a purchase price of $849.3 million, net of cash acquired. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired lebrikizumab, a novel, investigational, monoclonal antibody being evaluated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. Lebrikizumab was granted Fast Track designation from the FDA. We also acquired Qbrexza cloth, a medicated cloth for the topical treatment of primary axillary hyperhidrosis (uncontrolled excessive underarm sweating). In 2021, we sold the rights to Qbrexza. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the sale of the rights to Qbrexza.
In February 2019, we acquired all shares of Loxo for a purchase price of $6.92 billion, net of cash acquired. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired a pipeline of investigational medicines, including selpercatinib, an oral RET inhibitor, and LOXO-305 (pirtobrutinib), an oral BTK inhibitor. In the second quarter of 2020, the FDA approved selpercatinib (Retevmo) under its Accelerated Approval regulations and continued approval may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials.
See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our recent acquisitions.

42

Operating Results—2021
Revenue
The following table summarizes our revenue activity by region:

------------ ---------------------- -------- ---- -------- -------------- -------- -- --
 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2021 2020 Percent Change
U.S. $ 16,811.0 $ 14,229.3 18
Outside U.S. 11,507.4 10,310.5 12
Revenue $ 28,318.4 $ 24,539.8 15

The following are components of the change in revenue compared with the prior year:

---------------------- ------------- ------------ ------------ - --- -
 2021 vs. 2020
 U.S. Outside U.S. Consolidated
Volume 19 % 13 % 16 %
Price (1) % (4) % (2) %
Foreign exchange rates — % 3 % 1 %
Percent change 18 % 12 % 15 %

Numbers may not add due to rounding.
In the U.S the increase in volume in 2021 was primarily driven by COVID-19 antibodies, Trulicity®, and Taltz®.
Outside the U.S. the increase in volume in 2021 was primarily driven by Trulicity, Olumiant, COVID-19 antibodies, Verzenio, and Taltz. The decrease in realized prices outside the U.S. was primarily driven by the price impact of the updated National Reimbursement Drug List formulary for certain products, largely Tyvyt®, in China.

43

The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2021 compared with 2020:

---------------------- ---------------------- -------- ------------ ------- ----- -------- ------- -------------- - -------- ---- -------- --
 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2021 2020
Product U.S. Outside U.S. Total Total Percent Change
Trulicity $ 4,914.4 $ 1,557.6 $ 6,471.9 $ 5,068.1 28
Humalog(1) 1,320.7 1,132.3 2,453.0 2,625.9 (7)
COVID-19 antibodies(2) 1,978.0 261.4 2,239.3 871.2 NM
Taltz 1,542.4 670.4 2,212.8 1,788.5 24
Alimta 1,233.9 827.5 2,061.4 2,329.9 (12)
Jardiance(3) 807.3 683.5 1,490.8 1,153.8 29
Verzenio 834.9 515.0 1,349.9 912.7 48
Humulin® 832.9 389.6 1,222.6 1,259.6 (3)
Olumiant(4) 324.1 791.0 1,115.1 638.9 75
Cyramza® 358.1 674.8 1,033.0 1,032.6 —
Basaglar® 588.3 304.2 892.5 1,124.4 (21)
Forteo 441.6 360.3 801.9 1,046.3 (23)
Cialis® 10.6 707.9 718.4 607.1 18
Cymbalta 38.7 542.8 581.5 767.7 (24)
Emgality® 434.5 142.7 577.2 362.9 59
Erbitux® 481.8 66.4 548.3 536.4 2
Zyprexa® 39.6 390.7 430.3 406.5 6
Tyvyt — 418.1 418.1 308.7 35
Trajenta®(5) 82.1 290.4 372.5 358.5 4
Other products 547.1 780.8 1,327.9 1,340.1 (1)
Revenue $ 16,811.0 $ 11,507.4 $ 28,318.4 $ 24,539.8 15

Numbers may not add due to rounding.
NM - Not meaningful
(1) Humalog revenue includes insulin lispro.
(2) COVID-19 antibodies include sales for bamlanivimab administered alone as well as sales for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together and were made pursuant to EUAs or similar regulatory authorizations.
(3) Jardiance revenue includes Glyxambi®, Synjardy®, and Trijardy® XR.
(4) Olumiant revenue includes sales for baricitinib, for treatment in hospitalized COVID-19 patients, that were made pursuant to EUA or similar regulatory authorizations.
(5) Trajenta revenue includes Jentadueto®.

Revenue of Trulicity, a treatment for type 2 diabetes and to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors, increased 28 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 26 percent, driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices.
Revenue of Humalog, an injectable human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes, decreased 11 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by lower realized prices. Humalog's lower realized prices in the U.S. in 2021 were driven by higher contracted rebates and discounts and increased utilization in more highly-rebated government segments, partially offset by lower utilization in the 340B segment. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by decreased volume and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices, largely offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Included in the revenue of Humalog in the U.S. are our own insulin lispro authorized generics. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of similar insulin lispro products entering the market, we do not expect and have not experienced a rapid and severe decline in revenue. However, due to the impact of competition and due to pricing pressure in the U.S. and some international markets, we expect some price decline and loss of market share to continue over time.

44

Revenue of COVID-19 antibodies, treatments for mild to moderate COVID-19 for higher-risk patients and for post-exposure prophylaxis in certain individuals for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection, was $1.98 billion in the U.S. during the year ended December 31, 2021. Revenue outside the U.S. was $261.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The availability of superior or competitive therapies, including therapies that can be administered more easily, or preventative measures, such as vaccines, coupled with the unpredictable nature of pandemics, have and could further negatively impact or eliminate demand for these COVID-19 antibodies. The FDA has revised, and may in the future revise, any EUA for our COVID-19 antibodies in response to the prevalence of variants against which our antibodies have varying degrees of efficacy. We expect that additional revenue from the sale of bamlanivimab and etesevimab after the first quarter of 2022 will be limited.
Revenue of Taltz, a treatment for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, active psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, increased 20 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices due to increased rebates to gain commercial access. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 34 percent, primarily driven by increased volume.
Revenue of Alimta, a treatment for various cancers, decreased 2 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased volume, partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 22 percent, primarily driven by decreased volume due to the entry of generic competition in certain markets and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Following the loss of exclusivity in major European countries and Japan in June 2021, we faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition which has eroded revenue and is likely to continue to rapidly and severely erode revenue from current levels. In the U.S., we expect the limited entry of generic competition starting February 2022 and subsequent unlimited entry starting April 2022. We expect that the entry of generic competition following the loss of exclusivity in the U.S. will cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue. See "Executive Overview - Other Matters- Patent Matters" for additional information.
Revenue of Jardiance, a treatment for type 2 diabetes, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease, and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction, increased 30 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 28 percent, primarily driven by increased volume. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim involving Jardiance.
Revenue of Verzenio, a treatment for HR+, HER2- metastatic breast cancer and high risk early breast cancer, increased 35 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 75 percent, driven by increased volume.
Revenue of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment of diabetes, decreased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by decreased volume, largely offset by higher realized prices and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
Revenue of Olumiant, a treatment for adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis, and of baricitinib, a treatment, with or without remdesivir, of hospitalized patients with COVID-19, increased $260.3 million in the U.S., driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 38 percent, driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. Increased volume worldwide was partially driven by utilization of Olumiant for the treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19.
Revenue of Cyramza, a treatment for various cancers, decreased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand, partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 4 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by lower realized prices.

45

Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses
Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 74.2 percent in 2021, a decrease of 3.5 percentage points compared with 2020, driven by higher sales of COVID-19 antibodies.
Research and development expenses increased 15 percent to $7.03 billion in 2021, primarily driven by higher development expenses for late-stage assets.
Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 5 percent to $6.43 billion in 2021, primarily due to increased marketing costs to continue to drive growth for certain products, investment in preparation for new launches, and lower marketing activities in 2020 as a result of pandemic-related spending reductions.
We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $874.9 million and $660.4 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to business development transactions. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $316.1 million in 2021. The charges were primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo, an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza, as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail. In 2020, we recognized $131.2 million of asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges primarily related to severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken worldwide to reduce our cost structure.
Other—net, (income) expense was expense of $201.6 million in 2021 compared to income of $1.17 billion in 2020, primarily driven by lower net investment gains on equity securities and a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt.
Our effective tax rate was 9.3 percent in 2021, compared with an effective tax rate of 14.3 percent in 2020, primarily driven by the tax impacts of acquired IPR&D charges, lower net investment gains on equity securities, as well as a net discrete tax benefit.
Operating Results—2020
For a discussion of our results of operations pertaining to 2020 and 2019 see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020.

46

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY
We believe our available cash and cash equivalents, together with our ability to generate operating cash flow and our access to short-term and long-term borrowings, are sufficient to fund our existing and planned capital requirements, which include:
•working capital requirements, including related to employee payroll, clinical trials, manufacturing materials, and taxes;
•capital expenditures;
•share repurchases and dividends;
•repayment of outstanding short-term and long-term borrowings;
•contributions to our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans;
•milestone and royalty payments; and
•potential business development activities, including acquisitions, collaborations, investments, and licensing arrangements.
Our management continuously evaluates our liquidity and capital resources, including our access to external capital, to ensure we can adequately and efficiently finance our capital requirements. As of December 31, 2021, our material cash requirements primarily related to purchases of goods and services to produce our products and conduct our operations, capital equipment expenditures, dividends, repayment of outstanding borrowings, milestone and royalty payments, the remaining obligations for the one-time repatriation transition tax (also known as the 'Toll Tax') from the 2017 Tax Act, leases, unfunded commitments to invest in venture capital funds, and retirement benefits (see Notes 11, 4, 14, 10, 7, and 15 to the consolidated financial statements). We anticipate our cash requirements related to ordinary course purchases of goods and services and capital equipment expenditures will be consistent with our past levels relative to revenues.
Beginning in 2022, the 2017 Tax Act contains a provision that requires us to capitalize and amortize research and development expenses for tax purposes, whereas previously we could fully deduct these expenses in the year incurred. While this provision of the 2017 Tax Act is expected to have an immaterial impact on our consolidated results of operations, if it is not deferred or repealed by Congress, we expect that the implementation of this provision will increase our cash payments of income taxes by up to $1.50 billion in 2022 and subsequently decrease our cash payments of income taxes moderately over the five-year amortization period. See "Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters -Tax Matters" for additional information.
We plan to invest more than $1 billion over several years in a new facility in Concord, North Carolina to manufacture parenteral (injectable) products and devices. We plan to invest more than 400 million euros over several years in a new facility in Limerick, Ireland to expand our manufacturing network for biologic active ingredients.
Cash and cash equivalents increased to $3.82 billion as of December 31, 2021, compared with $3.66 billion at December 31, 2020. Net cash provided by operating activities was $7.26 billion in 2021, compared with $6.50 billion in 2020. Refer to the consolidated statements of cash flows for additional information on the significant sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.
In addition to our cash and cash equivalents, we held total investments of $3.30 billion and $2.99 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
In January 2021, we acquired all shares of Prevail for a purchase price that included $22.50 per share in cash (or an aggregate of $747.4 million, net of cash acquired) plus one non-tradable CVR per share. The CVR entitles Prevail stockholders up to an additional $4.00 per share in cash (or an aggregate of approximately $160 million) payable, subject to certain terms and conditions. This acquisition was funded primarily through cash on hand. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

47

As of December 31, 2021, total debt was $16.88 billion, an increase of $289.4 million compared with $16.60 billion at December 31, 2020. In September 2021, we issued euro-denominated notes consisting of €500.0 million of 1.125 percent fixed-rate notes due in September 2051 and €700.0 million of 1.375 percent fixed-rate notes due in September 2061, with interest to be paid annually, and British pound-denominated notes consisting of £250.0 million of 1.625 percent fixed-rate notes due in September 2043, with interest to be paid annually. We paid $1.91 billion of the net cash proceeds from the offering to purchase and redeem certain higher interest rate U.S. dollar-denominated notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.50 billion. We used the remaining net proceeds from the offering to prefund certain 2022 debt maturities and for general corporate purposes. In addition, in September 2021, we issued euro-denominated notes consisting of €600.0 million of 0.50 percent fixed-rate notes due in September 2033, with interest to be paid annually. The net proceeds from the offering will be used to fund, in whole or in part, eligible projects designed to advance one or more of our environmental, social, and governance objectives. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
As of December 31, 2021, we had a total of $5.26 billion of unused committed bank credit facilities, $5.00 billion of which is available to support our commercial paper program. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. We believe that amounts accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be adequate to fund any short-term borrowing needs.
For the 136th consecutive year, we distributed dividends to our shareholders. Dividends of $3.40 per share and $2.96 per share were paid in 2021 and 2020, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2021, effective for the dividend to be paid in the first quarter of 2022, the quarterly dividend was increased to $0.98 per share, resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2022 of $3.92 per share.
Capital expenditures of $1.31 billion during 2021, compared to $1.39 billion in 2020.
In 2021, we repurchased $1.00 billion of shares, which completed our $8.00 billion share repurchase program authorized in June 2018. Additionally, our board authorized a $5.00 billion share repurchase program in May 2021. In 2021, we repurchased $250.0 million of shares under the $5.00 billion share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2021, we had $4.75 billion remaining under the $5.00 billion share repurchase program. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
See "Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters - Patent Matters" for information regarding recent and upcoming losses of patent protection.
Both domestically and abroad, we continue to monitor the potential impacts of the economic environment; the creditworthiness of our wholesalers and other customers, including foreign government-backed agencies and suppliers; the uncertain impact of health care legislation; and various international government funding levels.
In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, currency values, and fair values of equity securities. These fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and operating. We seek to address a portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The objective of this risk management program is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative activities are for purposes other than trading.
Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help maintain that balance. As of December 31, 2021, substantially all of our total long-term debt carries interest at a fixed rate. We have converted approximately 13 percent of our long-term fixed-rate notes to floating rates through the use of interest rate swaps. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2021 and 2020, including derivatives and other interest rate risk-sensitive instruments, a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate risk-sensitive instruments over a one-year period.

48

Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. We face foreign currency exchange exposures when we enter into transactions arising from subsidiary trade and loan payables and receivables denominated in foreign currencies. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We may enter into foreign currency forward or option derivative contracts to reduce the effect of fluctuating currency exchange rates (primarily the euro, the Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan). Our corporate risk-management policy outlines the minimum and maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on these derivative contracts offset, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations on the existing assets and liabilities. We periodically analyze the fair values of the outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts to determine their sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates. A hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates (primarily against the U.S. dollar) applied to the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or financial position over a one-year period. This sensitivity analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in exchange rates would have on the underlying foreign currency denominated transactions.
Our fair value risk exposure relates primarily to our public equity investments and to equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, our carrying values of these investments were $1.83 billion and $2.04 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 20 percent change in fair value of the equity instruments would have impacted other-net, (income) expense by $365.6 million and $407.6 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We acquire and collaborate on potential products still in development and enter into research and development arrangements with third parties that often require milestone and royalty payments to the third party contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Milestone payments may be required contingent upon the successful achievement of an important point in the development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval for marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the arrangement, we may make royalty payments based upon a percentage of the sales of the product in the event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained.
Individually, these arrangements are generally not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements were reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate expense or aggregate milestone payments made could be material to our results of operations or cash flows, respectively, in that period. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. These arrangements often give us the discretion to unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully achieves milestone objectives. We also note that, from a business perspective, we view these payments as positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from sales of products.

49

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
In preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most critical accounting estimates have been discussed with our audit committee and are described below.
Revenue Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount Accruals
We recognize revenue primarily from two different types of contracts, product sales to customers (net product revenue) and collaborations and other arrangements. For product sales to customers, provisions for returns, rebates and discounts are established in the same period the related product sales are recognized. To determine the appropriate transaction price for our product sales at the time we recognize a sale to a direct customer, we estimate any rebates or discounts that ultimately will be due to the direct customer and other customers in the distribution chain under the terms of our contracts. Significant judgments are required in making these estimates. The largest of our sales rebate and discount amounts are rebates associated with sales covered by managed care, Medicare, Medicaid, chargeback, and patient assistance programs in the U.S. In determining the appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical rebate payments for these programs by product as a percentage of our historical sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends (e.g., patent expiries and product launches), an evaluation of the current contracts for these programs, the percentage of our products that are sold via these programs, and our product pricing.
Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on revenue recognition and sales return, rebate, and discount accruals.
Revenue recognized from collaborations and other arrangements will include our share of profits from the collaboration, as well as royalties, upfront and milestone payments we receive under these types of contracts.
Financial Statement Impact
We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. Our rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our sales return liability is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2021, a 5 percent change in our consolidated sales return, rebate, and discount liability would have led to an approximate $366 million effect on our income before income taxes.
The portion of our consolidated sales return, rebate, and discount liability resulting from sales of our products in the U.S. was approximately 90 percent as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
The following represents a roll-forward of our most significant U.S. sales return, rebate, and discount liability balances, including managed care, Medicare, Medicaid, chargeback, and patient assistance programs:

----------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- ---- ---------- - -------
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, beginning of year $ 5,400.0 $ 4,635.5
Reduction of net sales(1) 20,106.3 18,668.4
Cash payments (19,344.7) (17,903.9)
Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, end of year $ 6,161.6 $ 5,400.0

(1) Adjustments of the estimates for these returns, rebates, and discounts to actual results were less than 1 percent of consolidated revenue for each of the years presented.

50

Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies
Background and Uncertainties
Litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by their nature, uncertain and based upon complex judgments and probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation, the nature and the number of other similar current and past matters, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the litigation, as applicable, and the likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs based primarily on historical claims experience and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with significant liability contingencies when both probable and reasonably estimable.
We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and the possibility of and length of time for collection. Due to a very restrictive market for litigation liability insurance, we are self-insured for litigation liability losses for all our currently marketed products. In addition to insurance coverage, we consider any third-party indemnification to which we are entitled or under which we are obligated. With respect to our third-party indemnification rights, these considerations include the nature of the indemnification, the financial condition of the indemnifying party, and the possibility of and length of time for collection.
The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets.
Acquisitions
Background and Uncertainties
To determine whether acquisitions or licensing transactions should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition, we make certain judgments, which include assessing whether the acquired set of activities and assets would meet the definition of a business under the relevant accounting rules.
If the acquired set of activities and assets meets the definition of a business, assets acquired and liabilities assumed are required to be recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets, where applicable, is recorded as goodwill. If the acquired set of activities and assets does not meet the definition of a business, the transaction is recorded as an acquisition of assets and, therefore, any acquired IPR&D that does not have an alternative future use is charged to expense at the acquisition date, and goodwill is not recorded. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, as well as estimated asset lives, can materially affect our consolidated results of operations. The fair values of intangible assets, including acquired IPR&D, are determined using information available near the acquisition date based on estimates and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. Significant estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, probability of technical success, revenue growth and discount rate. Depending on the facts and circumstances, we may deem it necessary to engage an independent valuation expert to assist in valuing significant assets and liabilities.
The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily determined using an "income method," as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
The fair value of any contingent consideration liability that results from a business combination is primarily determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, as described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Estimating the fair value of contingent consideration requires the use of significant estimates and judgments, including, but not limited to, probability of technical success and the discount rate.
Financial Statement Impact
As of December 31, 2021, a 5 percent change in the contingent consideration liability would result in a change in income before income taxes of $3.5 million.

51

Impairment of Indefinite-Lived and Long-Lived Assets
Background and Uncertainties
We review the carrying value of long-lived assets (both intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. We identify impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset (or asset group) to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset's net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted.
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying amount, a quantitative test that compares the fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying value is performed to determine the amount of any impairment.
Several methods may be used to determine the estimated fair value of acquired IPR&D, all of which require multiple assumptions. We utilize the "income method," as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
For acquired IPR&D assets, the risk of failure has been factored into the fair value measure and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a successful product, as discussed previously in "Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Late-Stage Pipeline." The nature of the pharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects to maintain a successful portfolio of approved products. As such, it is likely that some acquired IPR&D assets will become impaired in the future.
Estimates of future cash flows, based on what we believe to be reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management's judgment. Actual results could vary materially from these estimates.
Retirement Benefits Assumptions
Background and Uncertainties
Defined benefit pension plan and retiree health benefit plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, and retirement age. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our retirement benefits.
Annually, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. We use an actuarially determined, plan-specific yield curve of high quality, fixed income debt instruments to determine the discount rates. In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, we consider many factors, with a primary analysis of current and projected market conditions, asset returns and asset allocations (approximately 75 percent of which are growth investments), and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. We may also review our historical assumptions compared with actual results, as well as the discount rates and expected return on plan assets of other companies, where applicable. In evaluating our expected retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits together with our expectations of future retirement ages.
Annually, we determine the fair value of the plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. Approximately 38 percent of our plan assets are in hedge funds and private equity-like investment funds (collectively, alternative assets). We value these alternative investments using significant unobservable inputs or using the net asset value reported by the counterparty, adjusted as necessary. Inputs include underlying net asset values, discounted cash flows valuations, comparable market valuations, and adjustments for currency, credit, liquidity and other risks.

52

Financial Statement Impact
If the 2021 discount rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans (U.S. plans) were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $21.6 million. If the 2021 expected return on plan assets for U.S. plans were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $31.5 million. If our assumption regarding the 2021 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be affected by $51.1 million. The U.S. plans, including Puerto Rico, represent approximately 80 percent of each of the total projected benefit obligation and total plan assets at December 31, 2021.
Adjustments to the fair value of plan assets are not recognized in pension and retiree health benefit expense in the year that the adjustments occur. Such changes are deferred, along with other actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into expense over the expected remaining service life of employees.
Income Taxes
Background and Uncertainties
We prepare and file tax returns based upon our interpretation of tax laws and regulations, and we record estimates based upon these interpretations. Our tax returns are routinely subject to examination by taxing authorities, which could result in future tax, interest, and penalty assessments. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation and regulation as concluded through the various jurisdictions' tax court systems. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted for changes in facts and circumstances. For example, adjustments could result from changes to existing tax law, the issuance of regulations by taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of a tax examination. We believe our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.
We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated from net operating losses, tax credits, and other tax carryforwards and carrybacks in certain taxing jurisdictions. In evaluating whether we would more likely than not recover these deferred tax assets, we have not assumed future taxable income in the jurisdictions associated with these carryforwards where history does not support such an assumption. Implementation of tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or to generate future taxable income in these jurisdictions could lead to the reversal of all or a portion of these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense.
Financial Statement Impact
As of December 31, 2021, a 5 percent change in the amount of uncertain tax positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change in net income of $84.9 million and $43.8 million, respectively.

LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS
Information relating to certain legal proceedings can be found in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated here by reference.

53

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and which we believe helped mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our results. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[See Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[See Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[Refer to Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[see Note 15]:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements]:
 and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and which we believe helped mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our results. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

[Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

[Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[" for additional information.
We euros over several years in a new facility in Limerick, Ireland to expand our manufacturing network for biologic active ingredients.
Cash and cash equivalents increased to $3.82 billion as of December 31, 2021, compared with $3.66 billion at December 31, 2020. Net cash provided by operating activities was $7.26 billion in 2021, compared with $6.50 billion in 2020. Refer to the consolidated statements of cash flows for additional information on the significant sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.
In addition to our cash and cash equivalents, we held total investments of $3.30 billion and $2.99 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
In January 2021, we acquired all shares of Prevail for a purchase price that included $22.50 per share in cash (or an aggregate of $747.4 million, net of cash acquired) plus one non-tradable CVR per share. The CVR entitles Prevail stockholders up to an additional $4.00 per share in cash (or an aggregate of approximately $160 million) payable, subject to certain terms and conditions. This acquisition was funded primarily through cash on hand. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

47

As of December 31, 2021, total debt was $16.88 billion, an increase of $289.4 million compared with $16.60 billion at December 31, 2020. In September 2021, we issued euro-denominated notes consisting of €500.0 million of 1.125 percent fixed-rate notes due in September 2051 and €700.0 million of 1.375 percent fixed-rate notes due in September 2061, with interest to be paid annually, and British pound-denominated notes consisting of £250.0 million of 1.625 percent fixed-rate notes due in September 2043, with interest to be paid annually. We paid $1.91 billion of the net cash proceeds from the offering to purchase and redeem certain higher interest rate U.S. dollar-denominated notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.50 billion. We used the remaining net proceeds from the offering to prefund certain 2022 debt maturities and for general corporate purposes. In addition, in September 2021, we issued euro-denominated eligible projects designed to advance one or more of our environmental, social, and governance objectives. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
As of December 31, 2021, we had a total of $5.26 billion of unused committed bank credit facilities, $5.00 billion of which is available to support our commercial paper program. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. We believe that amounts accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be adequate to fund any short-term borrowing needs.
For the 136th consecutive year, we distributed dividends to our shareholders. Dividends of $3.40 per share and $2.96 per share were paid in 2021 and 2020, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2021, effective for the dividend to be paid in the first quarter of 2022, the quarterly dividend was increased to $0.98 per share, resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2022 of $3.92 per share.
Capital expenditures of $1.31 billion during 2021, compared to $1.39 billion in 2020.
In 2021, we repurchased $1.00 billion of shares, which completed our $8.00 billion share repurchase program authorized in June 2018. Additionally, our board billion remaining under the $5.00 billion share repurchase program. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
See "]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[" for information regarding recent and upcoming losses of patent protection.
Both domestically and abroad, we continue to monitor the potential impacts of the economic environment; the creditworthiness of our wholesalers and other customers, including foreign government-backed agencies and suppliers; the uncertain impact of health care legislation; and various international government funding levels.
In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, currency values, and fair values of equity securities. These fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and operating. We seek to address a portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The objective of this risk management program is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative activities are for purposes other than trading.
Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help maintain that balance. As of December 31, 2021, substantially all of our total long-term debt carries interest at a fixed rate. We have converted approximately 13 percent of our long-term fixed-rate notes to floating rates through the use of interest rate swaps. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2021 and 2020, including derivatives and other interest rate risk-sensitive instruments, a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate risk-sensitive instruments over a one-year period.

48

Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. We face foreign currency exchange exposures when we enter into transactions arising from subsidiary trade and loan payables and receivables denominated in foreign currencies. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We may enter into foreign currency forward or option derivative contracts to reduce the effect of fluctuating currency exchange rates (primarily the euro, the Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan). Our corporate risk-management policy outlines the minimum and maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on these derivative contracts offset, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations on the existing assets and liabilities. We periodically analyze the fair values of the outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts to determine their sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates. A hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates (primarily against the U.S. dollar) applied to the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or financial position over a one-year period. This sensitivity analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in exchange rates would have on the underlying foreign currency denominated transactions.
Our fair value risk exposure relates primarily to our public equity investments and to equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, our carrying values of these investments were $1.83 billion and $2.04 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 20 percent change in fair value of the equity instruments would have impacted other-net, (income) expense by $365.6 million and $407.6 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We acquire and collaborate on potential products still in development and enter into research and development arrangements with third parties that often require milestone and royalty payments to the third party contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Milestone payments may be required contingent upon the successful achievement of an important point in the development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval for marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the arrangement, we may make royalty payments based upon a percentage of the sales of the product in the event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained.
Individually, these arrangements are generally not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements were reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate expense or aggregate milestone payments made could be material to our results of operations or cash flows, respectively, in that period. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. These arrangements often give us the discretion to unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully achieves milestone objectives. We also note that, from a business perspective, we view these payments as positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from sales of products.

49

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
In preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most critical accounting estimates have been discussed with our audit committee and are described below.
Revenue Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount Accruals
We recognize revenue primarily from two different types of contracts, product sales to customers (net product revenue) and collaborations and other arrangements. For product sales to customers, provisions for returns, rebates and discounts are established in the same period the related product sales are recognized. To determine the appropriate transaction price for our product sales at the time we recognize a sale to a direct customer, we estimate any rebates or discounts that ultimately will be due to the direct customer and other customers in the distribution chain under the terms of our contracts. Significant judgments are required in making these estimates. The largest of our sales rebate and discount amounts are rebates associated with sales covered by managed care, Medicare, Medicaid, chargeback, and patient assistance programs in the U.S. In determining the appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical rebate payments for these programs by product as a percentage of our historical sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends (e.g., patent expiries and product launches), an evaluation of the current contracts for these programs, the percentage of our products that are sold via these programs, and our product pricing.
Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on revenue recognition and sales return, rebate, and discount accruals.
Revenue recognized from collaborations and other arrangements will include our share of profits from the collaboration, as well as royalties, upfront and milestone payments we receive under these types of contracts.
Financial Statement Impact
We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. Our rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our sales return liability is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2021, a 5 percent change in our consolidated sales return, rebate, and discount liability would have led to an approximate $366 million effect on our income before income taxes.
The portion of our consolidated sales return, rebate, and discount liability resulting from sales of our products in the U.S. was approximately 90 percent as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.
The following represents a roll-forward of our most significant U.S. sales return, rebate, and discount liability balances, including managed care, Medicare, Medicaid, chargeback, and patient assistance programs:

----------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- ---- ---------- - -------
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, beginning of year $ 5,400.0 $ 4,635.5
Reduction of net sales(1) 20,106.3 18,668.4
Cash payments (19,344.7) (17,903.9)
Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, end of year $ 6,161.6 $ 5,400.0

(1) Adjustments of the estimates for these returns, rebates, and discounts to actual results were less than 1 percent of consolidated revenue for each of the years presented.

50

Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies
Background and Uncertainties
Litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by their nature, uncertain and based upon complex judgments and probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation, the nature and the number of other similar current and past matters, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the litigation, as applicable, and the likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs based primarily on historical claims experience and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with significant liability contingencies when both probable and reasonably estimable.
We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and the possibility of and length of time for collection. Due to a very restrictive market for litigation liability insurance, we are self-insured for litigation liability losses for all our currently marketed products. In addition to insurance coverage, we consider any third-party indemnification to which we are entitled or under which we are obligated. With respect to our third-party indemnification rights, these considerations include the nature of the indemnification, the financial condition of the indemnifying party, and the possibility of and length of time for collection.
The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets.
Acquisitions
Background and Uncertainties
To determine whether acquisitions or licensing transactions should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition, we make certain judgments, which include assessing whether the acquired set of activities and assets would meet the definition of a business under the relevant accounting rules.
If the acquired set of activities and assets meets the definition of a business, assets acquired and liabilities assumed are required to be recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets, where applicable, is recorded as goodwill. If the acquired set of activities and assets does not meet the definition of a business, the transaction is recorded as an acquisition of assets and, therefore, any acquired IPR&D that does not have an alternative future use is charged to expense at the acquisition date, and goodwill is not recorded. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, as well as estimated asset lives, can materially affect our consolidated results of operations. The fair values of intangible assets, including acquired IPR&D, are determined using information available near the acquisition date based on estimates and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. Significant estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, probability of technical success, revenue growth and discount rate. Depending on the facts and circumstances, we may deem it necessary to engage an independent valuation expert to assist in valuing significant assets and liabilities.
The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily determined using an "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) 75 * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[" as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
The fair value of any contingent consideration liability that results from a business combination is primarily determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, as described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Estimating the fair value of contingent consideration requires the use of significant estimates and judgments, including, but not limited to, probability of technical success and the discount rate.
Financial Statement Impact
As of December 31, 2021, a 5 percent change in the contingent consideration liability would result in a change in income before income taxes of $3.5 million.

51

Impairment of Indefinite-Lived and Long-Lived Assets
Background and Uncertainties
We review the carrying value of long-lived assets (both intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. We identify impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset (or asset group) to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset']:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

['s judgment. Actual results could vary materially from these estimates.
Retirement Benefits Assumptions
Background and Uncertainties
Defined benefit pension plan and retiree health benefit plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, and retirement age. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our retirement benefits.
Annually, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. We use an actuarially determined, plan-specific yield curve of high quality, fixed income debt instruments to determine the discount rates. In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, we consider many factors, with a primary analysis of current and projected market conditions, asset returns and asset allocations (approximately 75 percent of which are growth investments), and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. We may also review our historical assumptions compared with actual results, as well as the discount rates and expected return on plan assets of other companies, where applicable. In evaluating our expected retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits together with our expectations of future retirement ages.
Annually, we determine the fair value of the plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. Approximately 38 percent of our plan assets are in hedge funds and private equity-like investment funds (collectively, alternative assets). We value these alternative investments using significant unobservable inputs or using the net asset value reported by the counterparty, adjusted as necessary. Inputs include underlying net asset values, discounted cash flows valuations, comparable market valuations, and adjustments for currency, credit, liquidity and other risks.

52

Financial Statement Impact
If the 2021 discount rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans (U.S. plans) were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $21.6 million. If the 2021 expected return on plan assets for U.S. plans were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $31.5 million. If our assumption regarding the 2021 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be affected by $51.1 million. The U.S. plans, including Puerto Rico, represent approximately 80 percent of each of the total projected benefit obligation and total plan assets at December 31, 2021.
Adjustments to the fair value of plan assets are not recognized in pension and retiree health benefit expense in the year that the adjustments occur. Such changes are deferred, along with other actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into expense over the expected remaining service life of employees.
Income Taxes
Background and Uncertainties
We prepare and file tax returns based upon our interpretation of tax laws and regulations, and we record estimates based upon these interpretations. Our tax returns are routinely subject to examination by taxing authorities, which could result in future tax, interest, and penalty assessments. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation and regulation as concluded through the various jurisdictions']:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[" for additional information.
Revenue of Jardiance, a treatment for type 2 diabetes, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease, and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction, increased 30 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 28 percent, primarily driven by increased volume. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim involving Jardiance.
Revenue of Verzenio, a treatment for HR+, HER2- metastatic breast cancer and high risk early breast cancer, increased 35 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 75 percent, driven by increased volume.
Revenue of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment of diabetes, decreased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by decreased volume, largely offset by higher realized prices and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.
Revenue of Olumiant, a treatment for adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis, and of baricitinib, a treatment, with or without remdesivir, of hospitalized patients with COVID-19, increased $260.3 million in the U.S., driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 38 percent, driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. Increased volume worldwide was partially driven by utilization of Olumiant for the treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19.
Revenue of Cyramza, a treatment for various cancers, decreased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand, partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 4 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by lower realized prices.

45

Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses
Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 74.2 percent in 2021, a decrease of 3.5 percentage points compared with 2020, driven by higher sales of COVID-19 antibodies.
Research and development expenses increased 15 percent to $7.03 billion in 2021, primarily driven by higher development expenses for late-stage assets.
Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 5 percent to $6.43 billion in 2021, primarily due to increased marketing costs to continue to drive growth for certain products, investment in preparation for new launches, and lower marketing activities in 2020 as a result of pandemic-related spending reductions.
We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $874.9 million and $660.4 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to business development transactions. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $316.1 million in 2021. The charges were primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo, an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza, as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail. In 2020, we recognized $131.2 million of asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges primarily related to severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken worldwide to reduce our cost structure.
Other—net, (income) expense was expense of $201.6 million in 2021 compared to income of $1.17 billion in 2020, primarily driven by lower net investment gains on equity securities and a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt.
Our effective tax rate was 9.3 percent in 2021, compared with an effective tax rate of 14.3 percent in 2020, primarily driven by the tax impacts of acquired IPR&D charges, lower net investment gains on equity securities, as well as a net discrete tax benefit.
Operating Results—2020
For a discussion of our results of operations pertaining to 2020 and 2019 see Item 7, "]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...