================================================================================
CIK: 0000010795
Company Name: BECTON DICKINSON & CO
Filing Date: 2022-11-22
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 08:42:19
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item  1A.    Risk Factors.
An investment in BD involves a variety of risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the material risks that could adversely affect BD’s business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. We may also be adversely impacted by other risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial.
Business, Economic and Industry Risks
We are subject to risks associated with public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, which may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business. The nature and extent of future impacts are highly uncertain and unpredictable.
We are subject to risks associated with public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic. While many countries around the world have removed or reduced the restrictions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the emergence of new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus may result in new governmental lockdowns, quarantine requirements or other restrictions to slow the spread of the virus. This could result in significant reductions in the demand for certain of our products due to reductions in elective and non-essential procedures, lower utilization of routine testing and related specimen collection, reduced capital spend by customers, decreases in research activity due to laboratory closures and reduced clinical testing, as well as hospital and clinical occupancy and healthcare system staffing shortages. These measures could also include determinations that our or our suppliers’ facilities are not essential businesses, which could result in closures or other restrictions that significantly disrupt our operations or those of distributors or suppliers in our supply chain. In addition, any such measures could also impact the global
economy more broadly, for example by leading to further economic slowdowns. While COVID-19 case volumes have decreased in the U.S and certain other countries, the global outlook remains uncertain as case counts fluctuate and vaccination and booster rates remain relatively low in many parts of the world. Going forward, medical procedure rates may vary by country based on regional infection and vaccination and booster rates, hospital occupancy and staffing levels, transportation limitations, quarantines and other restrictions, and the emergence of new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our global supply chain network, and we may continue to experience significant challenges in our network, including shortages in supply or disruptions or delays in shipments, as well as price increases, of certain materials or components used in our products. The COVID-19 pandemic has escalated challenges that existed for global healthcare systems prior to the pandemic, including budget constraints and staffing shortages, particularly shortages of nursing staff, that could impact the future demand for our products and services. As COVID-19 conditions have improved, there have been increases in demand for certain of our products, which may pose challenges to our supply chain and could adversely affect our business. In addition, in response to the pandemic we developed and launched multiple products for the detection and identification of COVID-19, including tests for our BD Max™ molecular System and BD Veritor™ Plus System, and there are a number of factors, including vaccination and booster rates and the availability of competitive products, that have impacted in the past, and could impact in the future, the level of demand and pricing for our COVID-19 diagnostics testing.
The scope and duration of any future public health crisis, including the potential emergence of new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the pace at which government restrictions are imposed and lifted, the scope of additional actions taken to mitigate the spread of disease, global vaccination and booster rates, the speed and extent to which global markets and utilization rates for our products fully recover from the disruptions caused by such a public health crisis, and the impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and results of

12

Table of Contents
operations, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence.
To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or other public health crises adversely affect our operations and global economic conditions more generally, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described herein.
Global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions, could continue to adversely affect our operations.
General global economic downturns and macroeconomic trends, including heightened inflation, capital market volatility, interest rate and currency rate fluctuations, and economic slowdown or recession, may result in unfavorable conditions that could negatively affect demand for our products and exacerbate some of the other risks that affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Both domestic and international markets experienced significant inflationary pressures in fiscal year 2022 and inflation rates in the U.S., as well as in other countries in which we operate, are currently expected to continue at elevated levels for the near-term. In addition, the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and other central banks in various countries have raised, and may again raise, interest rates in response to concerns about inflation, which, coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. Interest rate increases or other government actions taken to reduce inflation could also result in recessionary pressures in many parts of the world. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past, and these currency fluctuations have affected, and may continue to affect, the reported value of our assets and liabilities, as well as our cash flows.
We have also experienced significant challenges in our global supply chain, including shortages in supply, or disruptions or delays in shipments, of certain materials or components used in our products, and related price increases. While to date, we have been able to manage the challenges associated with these delays and shortages without significant disruption to our business, no assurance can be given that these efforts will continue to be successful. Deterioration in the domestic or international economic environment, particularly in emerging markets and countries with government-sponsored healthcare systems, may cause decreased demand for our products and services and increased competition, which could result in lower sales volume and lower prices for our products, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption of new technologies, as well as increase the cost of operating our business or contribute to disruptions in our supply chain. In addition, we have previously experienced delays in collecting government receivables in certain countries due to economic conditions, and we may experience similar delays in the future in these and other countries or regions experiencing financial problems.
The medical technology industry is very competitive.
We are a global company that faces significant competition from a wide range of existing competitors and new market entrants. These include large medical device companies with multiple product lines, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, as well as firms which are more specialized than we are with respect to particular markets or product lines. Non-traditional entrants, such as technology companies, are also entering into the healthcare industry and some may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We face competition across all our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold on the basis of product features, clinical or economic outcomes, product quality, availability, price, services and other factors. Our ability to compete is also impacted by changing customer preferences and requirements, such as increased demand for more environmentally friendly products and for products incorporating digital capabilities, as well as changes in the ways healthcare services are delivered (including the transition of more care from acute to non-acute settings and increased focus on chronic disease management). The shift of care from acute to non-acute settings may also place financial pressure on hospitals and broader healthcare systems that could result in less demand for our products and services. Cost containment efforts by governments and the private sector are also resulting in increased emphasis on products that reduce costs, improve clinical results and expand patient access. Changes in regulatory or market standards, including without limitation cybersecurity requirements, often require significant investment to maintain compliance to relevant standards. Our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we meet these

13

Table of Contents
changing market, regulatory and cybersecurity demands in terms of our product offerings and marketing approaches.
The medical technology industry is also subject to rapid technological change, discovery and frequent product introductions. The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies (such as needle-free injection technology) that provide better features, pricing, clinical outcomes or economic value may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In some instances, competitors, including pharmaceutical companies, also offer (or are attempting to develop) alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device. Lower cost producers have also created pricing pressure, particularly in developing markets.
The medical technology industry has also experienced a significant amount of consolidation, resulting in companies with greater scale and market presence than BD. Traditional distributors are also manufacturers of medical devices, providing another source of competition. In addition, healthcare systems and other providers are consolidating, resulting in greater purchasing power for these companies. As a result, competition among medical device suppliers to provide goods and services has increased. Group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have also served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device suppliers. Further consolidation in the industry could intensify competition among medical device suppliers and exert additional pressure on the demand for and prices of our products.
We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.
A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from international operations, and we anticipate that a significant portion of our future sales will continue to come from outside the U.S. The revenues we report with respect to our operations outside the U.S. may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which are caused by a number of factors, including changes in a country's political and economic policies and inflationary conditions. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may also affect the reported value of BD’s assets and liabilities, as well as our cash flows. A discussion of the financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we may attempt to address any impact is contained in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any exchange rate hedging activities we engage in may only offset a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can effectively mitigate these risks.
Changes in reimbursement practices of third-party payers or other cost containment measures could affect the demand for our products and the prices at which they are sold.
Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities (including Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs) and private insurers for the costs of our products. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, which can vary among public and private sources and by country, may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products in a particular jurisdiction. Reimbursement rates can also affect the market acceptance rate of new technologies and products. Reforms to reimbursement systems in the U.S. or abroad, changes in coverage or reimbursement rates by private payers, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our products or result in denial of reimbursement for those products, which could adversely affect customer demand or the price customers are willing to pay for such products. See “Third-Party Reimbursement” under Item 1. Business.
Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs in the U.S. and other countries where we do business may also put industry-wide pressure on medical device or clinical diagnostic pricing. In the U.S., these include, among others, value-based purchasing and managed care arrangements. Governments in China and other countries are also using various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, including increased use of competitive bidding and tenders as well as price regulation.

14

Table of Contents

Our future growth is dependent in part upon the development of new products, and there can be no assurance that such products will be developed.
A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on innovation and new product development. New product development requires significant investment in R&D, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products and technologies, successfully complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the U.S. and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain appropriate intellectual property protections, and gain and maintain market acceptance of our products. In addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay our commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development, or that we may seek to develop in the future, will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and launch new products, our ability to maintain or expand our market position in the markets in which we participate may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the ongoing global semiconductor chip and component shortage could impact certain critical components of our R&D process, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our international operations subject us to certain business risks.
A substantial amount of our sales come from our operations outside the U.S., and we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in foreign markets, especially in emerging markets. Our foreign operations subject us to certain commercial, political and financial risks. In addition to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange (discussed above), our business in these foreign markets is subject to general political conditions, including any political instability (such as those resulting from war, terrorism and insurrections) and general economic conditions in these markets, such as inflation, deflation, interest rate volatility and credit availability. Additionally, a number of factors, including U.S. relations with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate, changes to international trade agreements and treaties, increases in trade protectionism, or the weakening or loss of certain intellectual property protection rights in some countries, may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign regulatory requirements, including those related to the testing, authorization, and labeling of products and import or export licensing requirements, could affect the availability of our products in these markets. In addition to these broader market conditions, our operations may also be impacted by a variety of local factors, such as competition from local companies, local product preferences and requirements, and changes in local healthcare payment systems and healthcare delivery systems. We also experience longer payment terms for account receivables in foreign jurisdictions than we experience in the U.S., and we face increased difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing our foreign operations.
The success of our operations outside the U.S. also depends, in part, on our ability to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to, among other things, our production facilities and sales and distribution networks. These and other factors may adversely impact our ability to pursue our growth strategy in these markets.
In addition, our international operations are governed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more enforcement proceedings by U.S. and foreign governmental agencies and the imposition of significant fines and penalties. While we have implemented policies and procedures relating to compliance with these laws, our international operations, which often involve customer relationships with foreign governments, create the risk that there may be unauthorized payments or offers of payments made by employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors. Any alleged or actual violations of these laws may subject us to government investigations and significant criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, and negatively affect our reputation.

15

Table of Contents
Reductions in customers’ research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our business.
We sell products to researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations. Research and development spending of our customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. A number of these customers are also dependent for their funding upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) and similar agencies in other countries. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable. For instance, certain NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for extended periods. The availability of governmental research funding may be adversely affected by economic conditions and governmental spending reductions, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Any reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products.
We need to attract and retain key employees to be competitive.
Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to attract and retain executives and other key employees. Competition for experienced employees, particularly for persons with specialized skills, can be intense. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical, manufacturing and distribution experience to operate our business successfully. Our ability to recruit and retain such talent will depend on a number of factors, including how BD’s compensation, benefits, work location and work environment compares with those offered by our competitors and other local employers. There has been an overall tightening and increasingly competitive labor market. A sustained labor shortage or increased turnover rates within our employee base could lead to increased costs, such as an increase in overtime necessary to meet demand and increased wages and benefit costs to attract and retain skilled employees, and could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate our manufacturing and distribution facilities and overall business. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified executives and skilled employees, we could encounter operational disruptions or other negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The military conflict between Russia and Ukraine may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The military conflict in Ukraine has increased global economic and political uncertainty. Furthermore, governments in the U.S., United Kingdom, and European Union have each imposed export controls on certain products and financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in Russia, and additional controls and sanctions could be enacted in the future. We are continuing to actively monitor the situation in Russia and Ukraine and assess its impact on our business, including our suppliers and customers. We have no manufacturing facilities or significant operations in Russia or Ukraine and as such, to date, the conflict has not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, it is possible that the conflict in Ukraine may escalate or expand, and the scope, extent and duration of the military action, current or future sanctions and resulting market and geopolitical disruptions could be significant. We cannot predict the impact the conflict may have on the global economy or our business, financial condition and operations in the future. The Russia and Ukraine conflict may also heighten the impact of other risks factors described herein. These potential effects could include but are not limited to increased inflation; volatility in prices for transportation, energy, commodities and other raw materials; constraints on the availability for us and our suppliers of commodities and other raw materials, including cobalt and energy sources; disruptions in the global supply chain; decreased demand for certain of our products; disruptions to our global technology infrastructure, including through cyberattacks, ransom attacks or cyber-intrusion; adverse changes in international trade policies and relations; increased exposure to foreign currency fluctuations; and constraints, volatility or disruptions in the credit and capital markets.

Operational Risks
Breaches or breakdowns of our information and technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
We are increasingly reliant upon a number of information and technology systems to operate our business. We process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations, including

16

Table of Contents
sensitive personal or proprietary information. In addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, cloud and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) solutions, data hosting and processing facilities, tools and other hardware, software (including open-source software) and technical applications and platforms, including some that are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-party providers, to assist in conducting our business. Some of our products include information systems that collect data regarding patients and patient therapy on behalf of our customers and some connect to our systems for maintenance purposes.
Cyberattacks continue to increase in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect for periods of time, especially as they relate to attacks on third-party providers or their vendors. Such attacks are often carried out by motivated and highly skilled actors, who are increasingly well-resourced. Our information systems, as well as those of various third parties on which we rely, have been subjected to, and are likely to continue to experience, a variety of attacks including but not limited to malicious code execution, and cyber- or phishing- attacks. We have also experienced instances of unauthorized access to our systems in the past and expect to be subject to similar cyberattacks in the future. In this increasingly hostile environment, we, or our third-party providers, could suffer a loss or disclosure of certain business information (or information regarding third parties stored in our systems) due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches. These breaches and cyberattacks could result in our intellectual property and other confidential or proprietary information being accessed, destroyed or stolen, which could adversely affect our competitive position in the market. Likewise, we or our third-party providers could suffer disruption of our operations and other significant negative consequences, including increased costs for security measures or remediation, lost revenue, manufacturing challenges or disruption, diversion of management attention, reputational damage, litigation and damage to our relationships with vendors, business partners and customers.
Unauthorized tampering, adulteration or interference with our products may also create issues with product functionality that could result in a loss of data, risk to patient safety and product recalls or field actions. Cyberattacks could also result in unauthorized access to our systems and products, which could also impact our compliance with privacy and other laws and regulations and could result in actions by regulatory bodies or civil litigation.
While we have made investments to address these threats and continue to dedicate significant resources to protect against unauthorized access of our systems and products, and we continue to work with government authorities and third-party providers to detect and reduce the risk of future cyber incidents, cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated, frequent and adaptive. There can be no assurances that these protective measures will prevent future attacks that could have a material adverse impact on our business.
Cost volatility could adversely affect our operations.
Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by volatility in the cost of raw materials, components, labor, freight and energy that, in turn, increases the costs of producing and distributing our products. New laws or regulations adopted in response to climate change could also increase energy and transportation costs, as well as the costs of certain raw materials and components. In particular, we purchase supplies of resins, which are oil-based components used in the manufacture of certain products, and any significant increases in resin costs, whether due to inflationary pressure, supply constraints, regulatory changes or otherwise, could adversely impact future operating results. Increases in oil prices can also increase our packaging and transportation costs. The costs of raw materials, transportation, construction, services, and energy necessary for the production and distribution of our products continues to increase and be volatile. These prices may continue to fluctuate based on many factors beyond our control, including but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, labor costs, transportation costs, competition and currency exchange rates. While we have implemented cost containment measures, selective price increases and taken other actions to mitigate these inflationary pressures in our supply chain, we may not be able to completely offset all the increases in our operational costs.

17

Table of Contents
A reduction or interruption in the supply of certain raw materials and components could adversely affect our operating results.
We purchase many different types of raw materials and components used in our products, some of which are not available from multiple sources. In addition, for quality assurance, cost-effectiveness and other reasons, certain raw materials and components are purchased from sole suppliers. The price and supply of these materials and components may be impacted or disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including supplier shutdowns, supplier capacity constraints, transportation delays, inflationary pricing pressures, work stoppages, labor shortages, geopolitical developments and governmental regulatory actions. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant challenges to our global transportation channels and other aspects of our global supply chain network, including to the cost and availability of raw materials and components due to shortages and cost inflation.
The U.S. and other governments may enact or use laws and regulations, such as the Defense Production Act or export restrictions, to ensure availability of needed COVID-19 testing and vaccination delivery devices or to address other national emergencies. Any such action may impact our global supply chain network. While we work with suppliers to ensure continuity of supply and service, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis or without excessive cost. The termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these raw materials and components could adversely impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Interruption of our manufacturing or sterilization operations could adversely affect our business.
We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. Interruption to our manufacturing operations resulting from weather or natural disasters, regulatory requirements, equipment failure or other issues in our manufacturing process, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. In some instances, we may not be able to transition manufacturing to other BD sites or a third party to replace the lost production. A significant interruption of our manufacturing operations could result in lost revenues and damage to our relationships with customers.
In addition, many of our products require sterilization prior to sale, and we utilize both BD facilities and third parties for this process. In some instances, only a few facilities are qualified under applicable regulations to conduct this sterilization. To the extent we or our third-party providers are unable to sterilize our products, whether due to lack of capacity, availability of materials for sterilization (including cobalt), regulatory requirements or otherwise, we may be unable to transition sterilization to other sites or modalities in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.
At a broader level, there is increased focus on the use and emission of ethylene oxide by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental regulatory agencies. Additional regulatory requirements associated with the use and emission of ethylene oxide for sterilization may be imposed in the future, both domestically and outside the U.S. This increased regulation could require BD or sterilization service providers, including providers used by BD, to temporarily suspend operations to install additional fugitive emissions control technology, limit the use of ethylene oxide or take other actions, which would impact BD’s operations and further reduce the available capacity to sterilize medical devices and healthcare products, and could also result in additional costs. Governmental agencies may also regulate the use and emission of ethylene oxide. If any existing regulatory requirements or any such regulatory actions or rulemaking result in the suspension or interruption of sterilization operations at BD or at medical device sterilizers used by BD, or otherwise limit the availability of third-party sterilization capacity, this could interrupt or otherwise adversely impact production of certain of our products or lead to civil litigation or other claims against BD. BD has business continuity plans in place to mitigate the impact of any such disruption, although these plans may not be able to fully offset such impact, for the reasons noted above. See “Item 1. Business - Regulation” for a

18

Table of Contents
discussion of the consent order BD entered into with the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the risk related to sterilization operations generally.
Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (“GHG”) in the atmosphere may present risks to our business and operations. Extreme weather or other conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, wildfires or flooding, which may result from climate change could adversely impact our operations and supply chain, including the availability and cost of raw materials and components required for the operation of our business, and human capital issues for BD and companies within our supply chain. In addition, access to and pricing of certain natural resources, such as water, could impact our manufacturing operations. Such conditions could also result in physical damage to our products, plants and distribution centers, as well as the infrastructure and facilities of our suppliers and of hospitals, medical care facilities and other customers.
There has been increased focus by federal, international, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies to combat and/or limit the effects of climate change through a variety of means, including regulating greenhouse gas emissions (and the establishment of enhanced internal processes or systems to track them), policies mandating or promoting the use of renewable or zero-carbon energy and sustainability initiatives, and additional taxes on fuel and energy. If legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated in the United States or in any other jurisdiction in which we do business that impose more stringent restrictions and requirements than our current legal or regulatory obligations, we and companies in our supply chain may experience increased compliance burdens and costs to meet the regulatory obligations, which could cause disruption in the sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Additionally, the impacts of climate change may further influence customer preferences and requirements, such as increased demand for products with lower environmental footprints, and for companies to produce and demonstrate progress against GHG reduction plans and targets. Failure to provide climate-friendly products or demonstrate GHG reductions could potentially result in loss of market share.
Legal, Quality and Regulatory Risks
We are subject to lawsuits.
We are or have been a defendant in a number of lawsuits, including, among others, purported class action lawsuits for alleged antitrust violations and violations of federal securities laws, product liability claims (which may involve lawsuits seeking class action status or seeking to establish multi-district litigation proceedings, including pending claims relating to our hernia repair implant products, surgical continence and pelvic organ prolapse products for women and vena cava filter products), and suits alleging patent infringement. We have also been subject to government subpoenas and civil investigative demands seeking information with respect to alleged violations of law, including in connection with federal and/or state healthcare programs (such as Medicare or Medicaid), federal contracting requirements and/or sales and marketing practices. A more detailed description of certain litigation to which we are a party is contained in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We could be subject to additional lawsuits, governmental investigations, subpoenas and civil investigative demands in the future. Any such lawsuits, governmental investigations, subpoenas and civil investigative demands could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could distract management from the operations of the business.
Reserves established for estimated losses with respect to legal proceedings do not represent an exact calculation of our actual liability, but instead represent our estimate of the probable loss at the time the reserve is established. Due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation and our underlying loss reserve estimates, additional reserves may be established or current reserves may be significantly increased from time-to-time. Also, in some instances, we are not able to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges materially in

19

Table of Contents
excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. Any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.
With respect to certain litigation, we believe that some settlements and judgments, as well as legal defense costs, may be covered in whole or in part under applicable insurance policies with a limited number of insurance companies, or, in some circumstances, indemnification obligations owed to us by other parties. However, amounts recovered under these arrangements may be less than the stated coverage limits or less than otherwise expected and may not be adequate to cover damages and/or costs. In addition, there is no guarantee that insurers or other parties will pay claims or that coverage or indemnity will be otherwise available. Also, for certain product liability claims or lawsuits, BD does not maintain or has limited remaining insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain additional insurance on acceptable terms or at all that will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities.
We are subject to extensive regulation.
Our operations are global and are affected by complex state, federal and international laws relating to healthcare, environmental protection, occupational health and safety, antitrust, anti-corruption, marketing, fraud and abuse (including anti-kickback and false claims laws), export control, product safety and efficacy, employment, privacy and other areas. Violations of these laws can result in criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines and, in some cases, exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Environmental laws, particularly with respect to climate change and the emission of greenhouse gases, are also becoming more stringent throughout the world, which may increase our costs of operations or necessitate closures of, or changes to, our manufacturing plants or processes or those of our suppliers, or result in liability to BD. The enactment of additional laws in the future may increase our compliance costs or otherwise adversely impact our operations and financial performance.
We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Most of our products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or counterpart regulatory agencies in other countries before they can be marketed or sold. The process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may require us to incur significant costs in terms of time and resources, and these costs have been increasing due to increased requirements from the FDA and comparable governing bodies for supporting data for submissions. The regulatory process may also require changes to our products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of our products. Governmental agencies may also impose new requirements regarding registration, including, but not limited to, labeling updates or changes to prohibited materials that require us to modify or re-register products already on the market or otherwise impact our ability to market our products in those countries.
Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting and other post market requirements of these agencies could delay or prevent the production, marketing or sale of our products and result in delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, warning letters or consent decrees, closure of manufacturing sites, import bans, seizures or recalls of products, civil or criminal sanctions and damage to our reputation. More stringent oversight by the FDA and other agencies in recent years has resulted in increased enforcement activity, which increases our compliance risk.
We are operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA, entered into by CareFusion in 2007 and amended in 2009, that affects our BD Alaris™ infusion pump business in the U.S. We are also currently operating under a warning letter issued by the FDA. For more information regarding the consent decree and warning letter, see “Regulation” under Item 1. Business.
As previously disclosed, we are undertaking certain remediation of our BD Alaris™ System, and are currently shipping the product in the U.S. only in cases of medical necessity and to remediate recalled software versions. We will not be able to fully resume commercial operations for the BD Alaris™ System in the U.S. until a 510(k) submission relating to the product has been cleared by the FDA. No assurance can be given as to when or if clearance will be obtained from the FDA.

20

Table of Contents
In addition, the European Union (“EU”) has adopted the EU Medical Device Regulation (the “EU MDR”) and the In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (the “EU IVDR”), each of which impose stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the area of clinical evidence requirements, quality systems and post-market surveillance. The EU MDR has been fully operational for previously approved self-certified medical devices since May 2021, and companies have until May 2024 to meet the requirements for medical devices with a valid conformity assessment certificate. The EU IVDR has been fully applicable for manufacturers of in vitro diagnostic medical devices since May 2022. Complying with and maintaining devices under these regulations requires us to incur significant expenditures. Additionally, the availability of EU notified body services certified to the new requirements is limited, which may delay the marketing approval for some of our products under the EU MDR. Any such delays, or any failure to meet these requirements could adversely impact our business in the EU and other regions that tie their product registrations to EU conformity requirements.
We are also subject to complex and frequently changing privacy and data protection laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. as well as in all other regions where BD operates, regarding the collection, use, storage, transfer and other processing of personal information. These privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our policies, practices, and processes and in some cases impose restrictions on our use or storage of personal information. These limitations and restrictions could require us to modify current or future products or services, which may harm our future financial results. Any actual or perceived noncompliance with these laws, rules and regulations, our internal policies and procedures or our contracts governing the processing of personal information could result in significant consequences for BD, including, among other things, business interruption, sanctions and significant pecuniary fines, regulatory inquiries and investigations, adverse publicity, loss of competitive advantage and customer trust, as well as privacy litigation and civil lawsuits with damages.
The importance of privacy laws, rules and regulations for the healthcare and med-tech industry specifically is constantly growing, as personal data has become an integral part of doing business in our sector, and the legal standards are evolving and becoming more complex worldwide. For instance, the European General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”), applicable as of 2018 and still one of the strictest and most comprehensive privacy laws in the world, is being continuously enforced, and increasingly heavy fines are now being levied on businesses. Fines for noncompliance with the GDPR can amount to up to €20 million or 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover from the preceding financial year (whichever is higher) and may be imposed in conjunction with the exercise of the authority’s investigatory and corrective powers. The GDPR’s extraterritorial scope makes it applicable to our U.S.-based legal entities whenever our business activities, systems and products process the personal data of EU residents. Additionally, privacy laws, rules and regulations are also rapidly developing in other regions, including China, Brazil, South Korea, and is expanding through the U.S., state by state (e.g., California, Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut, Utah), in parallel with federal privacy laws protecting sensitive health information. These varying laws, rules, regulations and industry standards impact BD businesses to the extent they rely on the use of personal data and create significant compliance challenges while maintaining our global reach. In addition, certain privacy and data protection laws may apply to us indirectly through our customers, manufacturers, suppliers or other third-party partners. For example, non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations by a third-party partner that is processing personal data on our behalf may be deemed non-compliance by us or a failure by us to conduct proper due diligence on the third party. We also could be subject to additional expenses and liabilities in the event of an information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, or the failure of an information technology system owned or operated by us or a third party with which we partner or its vendor.
Defects or quality issues associated with our products could adversely affect the results of our operations.
The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, component failures, unapproved or improper use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks or other information relating to the use of our products can lead to injury or other serious adverse events. Such events have in the past and could in the future lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or as required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. A recall could result

21

Table of Contents
in significant costs and lost sales and customers, enforcement actions and/or investigations by state and federal governments or other enforcement bodies, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce future demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in significant product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in regulatory approval of new products or the imposition of post-market approval requirements.
Our operations are dependent in part on patents and other intellectual property assets.
Many of our businesses rely on patent, trademark and other intellectual property assets. These intellectual property assets, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business. We can lose the protection afforded by these intellectual property assets through patent expirations, legal challenges or governmental action. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, competitors may seek to invalidate patents on our products or claim that our products infringe upon, misappropriate or otherwise violate their intellectual property, which could result in a loss of competitive advantage or the payment of significant legal fees, damage awards and past or future royalties, as well as injunctions against future sales of our products. We also operate in countries that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to compete with us in those countries.
We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by confidentiality agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties. These agreements may not adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors.
The loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual property assets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.
Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness
We may not be able to service all of our indebtedness.
We depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled debt payments. However, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations of the combined Company and to utilize other methods to make scheduled payments will depend on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that these sources will be adequate. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital, sell assets or refinance our indebtedness. Any such action may not be successful and we may be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we may not be able to refinance existing debt on favorable or comparable terms.
The agreements that govern our indebtedness impose restrictions that may affect our ability to operate our businesses.
The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain various affirmative and negative covenants that may, subject to certain significant exceptions, restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur debt and the ability of us and certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, have liens on our property, and/or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or convey certain of our assets to any one person, engage in certain transactions with affiliates and change the nature of our business. In addition, the agreements also require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including financial ratios. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our repayment obligations and could result in a default and acceleration under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations.

22

Table of Contents
Risks Relating to the Spin-off of Embecta Corp.
Risks relating to spin-off of Embecta Corp.
 On April 1, 2022, we completed the spin-off of Embecta Corp. (Embecta) (NASDAQ: EMBC), which holds our former Diabetes Care business and is now one of the world’s largest pure-play diabetes management companies in the world. The spin-off is intended to be a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If any facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from BD and Embecta regarding the past and future conduct of their respective businesses and other matters are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, the spin-off may not qualify for tax-free treatment, which could result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities for BD and its shareholders. Additionally, there can be no assurances that BD will be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to result from the spin-off.
General Business Risks
We cannot guarantee that any of our strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful.
We seek to supplement our internal growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such transactions are inherently risky, and the integration of any newly-acquired business requires significant effort and management attention. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to successfully integrate any business we may acquire into our existing business. There can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful.

Natural disasters, war and other events beyond our control could disrupt our business and adversely affect our future revenues and operating income.
Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, wildfires and floods and other extreme weather events (including those caused by climate change), war, global health crises, terrorism, social or political unrest, labor disruptions and international conflicts and other events beyond our control, and actions taken by the U.S. and other governments or by our customers or suppliers in response to such events, could cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability in the U.S. and areas outside of the U.S. in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers.

23

Table of Contents
Information About our Executive Officers
The following is a list of the executive officers of BD, their ages and all positions and offices held by each of them during the past five years. There is no family relationship between any executive officer or director of BD.

------------------------- --- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name Age Position
Thomas E. Polen 49 Chairman since April 2021; Chief Executive Officer since January 2020; President since April 2017; Chief Operating Officer from October 2018 to January 2020; and Executive Vice President and President - Medical Segment from October 2014 to April 2017.
Richard Byrd 55 Executive Vice President and President, Interventional Segment since September 2022; Worldwide President, BD Medication Delivery Solutions from March 2019 to September 2022; Worldwide President, Preanalytical Systems from December 2016 to February 2019.
Christopher J. DelOrefice 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2021; Vice President, Investor Relations, Johnson & Johnson from August 2018 to September 2021; Chief Financial Officer, North America Hospital Medical Devices, Johnson & Johnson from June 2017 to August 2018; and Vice President, Finance, North America, Johnson & Johnson Consumer, March 2014 to June 2017.
Antoine C. Ezell 53 Executive Vice President, President, North America and Chief Marketing Officer since October 2020; Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from January 2020 to October 2020; Vice President, Connected Care and Insulins, Eli Lilly and Company from January 2019 to January 2020; and prior thereto, Vice President, Enterprise Capabilities and Solutions, Eli Lilly; Chief Marketing Officer, Elanco Animal Health; and Chief Customer Officer, Eli Lilly.
Michael Garrison 54 Executive Vice President and President, Medical Segment since September 2022; Worldwide President, BD Medication Management Solutions from March 2020 to September 2022; Worldwide President, BD Surgery from December 2018 to March 2020; Vice President and General Manager Worldwide Infusion Systems from July 2016 to December 2018.
Roland Goette 60 Executive Vice President and President, EMEA since May 2017; and President, Europe from October 2014 to May 2017.
David B. Hickey 60 Executive Vice President and President, Life Sciences Segment since January 2021; President, Integrated Diagnostics Solutions from October 2019 to January 2021; and President, Diagnostic Systems from July 2016 to September 2019.
Samrat S. Khichi 55 Executive Vice President, Corporate Development, Public Policy, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel since September 2021; Executive Vice President, Public Policy, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel from May 2019 to September 2021; Executive Vice President and General Counsel from December 2017 to May 2019; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, C.R. Bard, Inc. from July 2014 to December 2017.
Pavan Mocherla 53 Executive Vice President and President, Greater Asia since July 2022; Country General Manager, South Asia/Managing Director from December 2017 to June 2022; Vice President of Strategic Innovation for Greater Asia from August 2017 to December 2017.
Shana Neal 57 Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer since April 2022; Chief Human Resources Officer of Owens & Minor from April 2018 to March 2022; Senior Vice President, Human Resources of BD from January 2017 to March 2018.

24

Table of Contents

Item  1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
None.

Item 2.    Properties.
BD’s executive offices are located in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey. As of September 30, 2022, BD owned or leased 334 facilities throughout the world, comprising approximately 25,651,266 square feet of manufacturing, warehousing, administrative, and research facilities. The U.S. facilities, including those in Puerto Rico, comprise approximately 8,020,022 square feet of owned and 4,666,986 square feet of leased space. The international facilities comprise approximately 9,556,871 square feet of owned and 3,407,387 square feet of leased space. Sales offices and distribution centers included in the total square footage are also located throughout the world.
Operations in each of BD’s business segments are conducted at both U.S. and international locations. Particularly in the international marketplace, facilities often serve more than one business segment and are used for multiple purposes, such as administrative/sales, manufacturing and/or warehousing/distribution. BD generally seeks to own its manufacturing facilities, although some are leased.
BD believes that its facilities are of good construction and in good physical condition, are suitable and adequate for the operations conducted at those facilities, and are, with minor exceptions, fully utilized and operating at normal capacity.
The U.S. facilities are located in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington D.C., Washington, Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico.
The international facilities are as follows:
- Europe, Middle East, Africa, which includes facilities in Austria, Belgium, Bosnia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, England, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Kenya, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and Zambia.
- Greater Asia, which includes facilities in Australia, Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
- Latin America, which includes facilities in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay.
- Canada.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to certain legal proceedings is included in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.

25

Table of Contents
PART II

 Item 5.    Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
BD’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "BDX". As of October 31, 2022, there were approximately 11,400 shareholders of record.
The table below sets forth certain information regarding BD’s purchases of its common stock during the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2022.

-------------------- --------------------------------- ------------------------- ------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------- ----------
Period Total Number ofSharesPurchased(1) AveragePricePaidper Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedPlans or Programs (2) Maximum Numberof Shares thatMay Yet bePurchased Under thePlans or Programs (2)
July 1-31, 2022 — — — 10,753,131
August 1-31, 2022 1,573,378 $256.00 1,573,378 9,179,753
September 1-30, 2022 379,755 $256.00 379,755 8,799,998
Total 1,953,133 $256.00 1,953,133 8,799,998

(1)Shares purchased includes an initial delivery of 1,573,378 shares of our common stock received in August 2022 upon payment of $500 million under an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreement, which was executed in August 2022, and an additional 379,755 shares in September 2022 based upon final settlement of the ASR agreement. The total average price paid per share in the table above reflects the volume weighted average price of BD's shares over the term of the ASR agreement. Additional disclosures regarding our share repurchase transactions are provided in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(2)The repurchases were made pursuant to the repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on September 24, 2013 for 10 million shares, which has been fully utilized as of September 30, 2022, and a repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in November 2021 for up to an additional 10 million shares of BD common stock, for which there is no expiration date.

Item 6.    (Reserved)

26

Table of Contents

Item 7.     Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes presented in this report. Within the tables presented throughout this discussion, certain columns may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages and earnings per share amounts presented are calculated from the underlying amounts. References to years throughout this discussion relate to our fiscal years, which end on September 30.
Company Overview
Description of the Company and Business Segments
Becton, Dickinson and Company (“BD”) is a global medical technology company engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products used by healthcare institutions, physicians, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. The Company's organizational structure is based upon three principal business segments, BD Medical (“Medical”), BD Life Sciences (“Life Sciences”) and BD Interventional (“Interventional”).
BD’s products are manufactured and sold worldwide. Our products are marketed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels and directly to end-users by BD and independent sales representatives. We organize our operations outside the United States as follows: EMEA (which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa); Greater Asia (which includes countries in Greater China, Japan, South Asia, Southeast Asia, Korea, Australia and New Zealand); Latin America (which includes Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and South America); and Canada. We continue to pursue growth opportunities in emerging markets, which include the following geographic regions: Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and certain countries within Greater Asia. We are primarily focused on certain countries whose healthcare systems are expanding.
Strategic Objectives
BD remains focused on delivering durable growth, creating shareholder value and making appropriate investments for the future. BD 2025, our vehicle for value creation, is anchored in three key pillars: grow, simplify and empower. BD's management team aligns our operating model and investments with these key strategic pillars through continuous focus on the following underlying objectives:
Grow
•Developing and maintaining a strong portfolio of leading products and solutions that address significant unmet clinical needs, improve outcomes, and reduce costs;
•Focusing on our core products, services and solutions that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers;
•Investing in research and development that leads to and expands category leadership, as well as results in a robust product pipeline;
•Accelerating innovation in smart connected care, enabling new care settings and improving chronic disease outcomes;
•Leveraging our global scale to expand our reach in providing access to affordable medical technologies around the world, including emerging markets;
•Supplementing our internal growth through strategic acquisitions in faster growing market segments;
•Driving an efficient capital structure and strong shareholder returns.

27

Table of Contents
Simplify
•Driving operating effectiveness and margin expansion by increasing factory productivity and asset efficiencies;
•Reducing complexity and improving customer experience by rationalizing our product portfolio and through the simplification and optimization of our operating model;
•Making strategic investments to advance quality culture and our core quality management system to serve our patients and ensure we are a best-in-class, proactive quality-driven organization;
•Working across our supply chain to responsibly source materials and goods, as well as to reduce environmental impacts;
•Creating more resilient operations through investments in an enterprise-wide renewable energy strategy;
•Focusing on cash management in order to improve balance sheet productivity.
Empower
•Fostering a purpose-driven culture with a focus on positive impact to all stakeholders–customers, patients, employees and communities;
•Improving our ability to serve customers and enhance customer experiences through the digitalization of internal processes and go-to-market approaches;
•Driving sustainability initiatives within our organizational units to support enterprise-wide collaboration towards our sustainability strategy;
•Cultivating an inclusive work environment that welcomes and celebrates diverse talent and perspectives;
•Growing and enabling talent through training, development and reskilling strategies.
In assessing the outcomes of these strategies as well as BD’s financial condition and operating performance, management generally reviews forecast data, monthly actual results, including segment sales, and other similar information. We also consider trends related to certain key financial data, including gross profit margin, selling and administrative expense, investment in research and development, return on invested capital, and cash flows.
BD’s Spin-Off of Diabetes Care
On April 1, 2022, BD completed the separation and distribution of Embecta, formerly BD's Diabetes Care business, into a separate, publicly-traded company. The historical results of the Diabetes Care business (previously included in BD’s Medical segment), as well as interest expense related to indebtedness incurred by Embecta prior to the spin-off date, have been reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods prior to the spin-off date of April 1, 2022. Additional disclosures regarding our spin-off of the Diabetes Care business are provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Key Trends Affecting Results of Operations
As noted above, our products are manufactured and sold worldwide, which exposes our operations, supply chain and suppliers to various global macroeconomic factors. The factors which were most impactful to our fiscal year 2022 results and that continue to be impactful to our operating results include the following:
•Inflation, which has increased the costs of raw materials, components, labor, energy, and logistical services;
•Availability of skilled labor (especially in North America), global energy sources, raw materials and electronic components; and
•Constrained logistics capacity related to the movement of goods around the globe.
During fiscal year 2022, the shortages of certain raw materials and components, delays in global transportation and labor shortages in our manufacturing facilities increased lead times for some of our product

28

Table of Contents
offerings. Also, significant inflationary pressures impacted our supply chain costs in certain areas throughout 2022. We experienced higher costs for raw materials, particularly resins, as well as for electronic components and freight. These increased costs put pressure on our operating expenses and the costs of our investments. We have been mitigating these inflationary pressures through the following:
•Driving strategic procurement initiatives to leverage alternative sources of raw material and transportation;
•Implementing cost-containment measures, as well as intensifying continuous improvement and restructuring programs in our manufacturing and distribution facilities;
•Continuing strategic product line rationalization programs as part of our simplification strategy; and
•Optimizing our sales through product allocation and customer management.
The COVID-19 pandemic continued to drive volatile global economic conditions during our fiscal year 2022. Utilization rates for most of our products have recovered compared to pre-pandemic levels; however, future resurgences in COVID-19 infections or new strains of the virus may affect the prioritization of non-acute versus acute healthcare utilization, which may temporarily weaken future demand for certain of our products and increase the demand for other of our products. The pandemic has contributed to the inflationary pressures and supply chain disruptions discussed above and these challenges could persist if governments impose lockdowns, quarantine requirements and other restrictions in order to control rates of COVID-19 infections, such as in China.
Additionally, the pandemic has escalated challenges that existed for global healthcare systems prior to the pandemic, including budget constraints and staffing shortages, particularly shortages of nursing staff. Changes in the ways healthcare services are delivered, including the transition of more care from acute to non-acute settings and increased focus on chronic disease management, may place additional financial pressure on hospitals and the broader healthcare system. Healthcare institutions may take actions to mitigate any persistent pressures on their budgets and such actions could impact the future demand for our products and services. Additionally, staffing shortages within healthcare systems may affect the prioritization of healthcare services, which could also impact the demand for certain of our products.
Geopolitical conditions may also impact our operations. Our operations in Russia and Ukraine are not material to our financial results, and as such, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine did not materially impact our results of operations in 2022. However, the continuation of the Russia-Ukraine military conflict and/or an escalation of the conflict beyond its current scope may further weaken the global economy and could result in additional inflationary pressures and supply chain constraints, including the unavailability and cost of energy. Due to the significant uncertainty that exists relative to the duration and overall impact of the macroeconomic factors discussed above, our future operating performance, particularly in the short-term, may be subject to volatility. The impacts of macroeconomic conditions on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows are dependent on certain factors, including those discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Summary of Financial Results
Worldwide revenues in 2022 of $18.870 billion decreased 1.4% from the prior-year period. This decrease reflected the following impacts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -
 Increase (decrease) in current-period revenues
Volume 6.2 %
Period-over-period decline in revenues related to COVID-19-only testing (7.5) %
Pricing 2.2 %
Foreign currency translation (2.3) %

Decrease in revenues from the prior-year period (1.4) %

29

Table of Contents
While resurgences of COVID-19 infections have continued to occur in various countries around the world, demand for our SARS-CoV-2 diagnostics tests and injection devices used for COVID-19 vaccinations has declined from the peak testing and vaccination levels reached earlier in the pandemic. As such, our fiscal year 2022 revenues in our Life Sciences segment reflected sales related to COVID-19-only diagnostic testing on the BD VeritorTM Plus, BD VeritorTM At-Home and BD MaxTM Systems of $511 million, compared with revenues from such testing products in 2021 of $1.956 billion.
Volume in 2022 was driven by demand for our core products and reflected strong demand across all of our segments’ units, particularly in the Medical segment’s Medication Delivery Solutions and Pharmaceutical Systems units, as well as in the Life Sciences segment’s Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit.
We continue to invest in research and development, strategic tuck-in acquisitions, geographic expansion, and new product programs to drive further revenue and profit growth. Our ability to sustain our long-term growth will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to expand our core business (including geographical expansion), develop innovative new products, and continue to improve operating efficiency and organizational effectiveness. As further discussed above, current global economic conditions have been relatively volatile due to various macroeconomic factors. We are mitigating the inflationary pressures on our businesses through the various strategies discussed above. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively mitigate such inflationary pressures in future periods, and an inability to offset inflationary pressures, at least in part, through the strategies discussed above could adversely impact our results of operations.
Our financial position remains strong, with cash flows from continuing operating activities totaling $2.471 billion in 2022. At September 30, 2022, we had $1.167 billion in cash and equivalents and short-term investments, including restricted cash. We continued to return value to our shareholders in the form of dividends. During fiscal year 2022, we paid cash dividends of $1.082 billion, including $992 million paid to common shareholders and $90 million paid to preferred shareholders. We also repurchased approximately $500 million of our common stock during fiscal year 2022.
Each reporting period, we face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that fluctuate from the beginning of such period. A stronger U.S. dollar, compared to the prior-year period, resulted in an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact to our revenues during 2022. The flow of foreign currency impacts to our earnings depends on various factors including our inventory turnover, our ability to leverage our global supply chain and the current-period mix of our sales, from both a product and geographic perspective. These factors resulted in a favorable foreign currency impact to earnings during 2022.
We evaluate our results of operations on both a reported and a foreign currency-neutral basis, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results on a foreign currency-neutral basis in addition to reported results helps improve investors’ ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. Foreign currency-neutral ("FXN") information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period. We use results on a foreign currency-neutral basis as one measure to evaluate our performance. We calculate foreign currency-neutral percentages by converting our current-period local currency financial results using the prior-period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current-period results. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Results on a foreign currency-neutral basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not measures of performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

30

Table of Contents
Results of Operations
Medical Segment
The following summarizes Medical revenues by organizational unit:

--------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------- - ----------------- ----- ---------- ----- - ---- - ----- - ---- -
 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change
Medication Delivery Solutions (a) $ 4,308 $ 4,101 $ 3,596 5.0 % (1.8) % 6.8 % 14.0 % 2.3 % 11.7 %
Medication Management Solutions 2,533 2,432 2,454 4.1 % (1.5) % 5.6 % (0.9) % 1.4 % (2.3) %
Pharmaceutical Systems (a) 2,001 1,828 1,587 9.5 % (5.0) % 14.5 % 15.2 % 4.2 % 11.0 %
Total Medical revenues $ 8,841 $ 8,361 $ 7,637 5.7 % (2.4) % 8.1 % 9.5 % 2.5 % 7.0 %

(a)Prior-period amounts were recast to reflect former intercompany transactions with Embecta.

The Medication Delivery Solutions unit’s revenue growth in 2022 reflected strong global sales of catheters and vascular care products, which were particularly driven by competitive gains for peripherally inserted intravenous catheter and flush products. Fiscal year 2022 revenues in the Medication Management Solutions unit reflected strong growth in global placements of dispensing systems, partially offset by an unfavorable comparison to the prior-year period, which benefited from pandemic-related demand for infusion pumps and sets. Our acquisition of Parata Systems in 2022 also contributed to revenue growth in the Medication Management Solutions unit. The Pharmaceutical Systems unit’s strong revenue growth in 2022 reflected continued high demand for our prefillable solutions in the high-growth markets for biologic drugs and vaccines.

The Medical segment’s revenue growth in 2021 was aided by a favorable comparison to 2020, which was impacted by COVID-19 pandemic-related declines, particularly in the United States and China. These prior-year pandemic-related declines impacted our Medication Delivery Solutions unit. Fiscal year 2021 revenue growth in the Medication Delivery Solutions unit reflected strong demand for our core offerings, including U.S. demand for catheters and vascular care products, as well as strong global demand for syringes resulting from COVID-19 vaccination efforts. In the Medication Management Solutions unit, lower revenues in 2021 reflected an unfavorable comparison to 2020, which benefited from global pandemic-related infusion pump orders. The Pharmaceutical Systems unit’s revenue growth in 2021 was enabled by capacity expansion efforts and was driven by continued strong demand for our pre-filled devices, which reflected the vial to pre-filled device conversion for biologics, vaccines, and other injectable drugs.
Medical segment operating income was as follows:

------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- - - -----
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Medical segment operating income $ 2,215 $ 1,985 $ 1,675

Segment operating income as % of Medical revenues 25.1 % 23.7 % 21.9 %

The Medical segment's operating income in 2022 was driven by improved gross profit margin and lower operating expenses. Operating income in 2021 was primarily driven by improved gross profit margin.
•The Medical segment’s higher gross profit margin in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily reflected the following:

31

Table of Contents
◦Favorable product mix with higher sales of high value-added products in the Medication Delivery Systems and Medication Management Solutions units.
◦Lower manufacturing costs resulting from continuous improvement projects which enhanced the efficiency of our operations, as well as favorable impacts from price and foreign currency translation; partially offset by
◦Higher raw material and freight costs, a noncash asset impairment charge of $54 million recorded to write down the carrying value of certain fixed assets, as well as charges of $72 million recorded in 2022 for estimated future costs within the Medication Management Solutions unit associated with remediation efforts related to AlarisTM infusion pumps, compared with charges of $56 million in 2021.
•The Medical segment’s higher gross profit margin in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily reflected the following:
◦A favorable comparison to 2020, which was unfavorably impacted by increased levels of manufacturing overhead costs that were recognized in the period because of the COVID-19 pandemic, rather than capitalized within inventory, and $244 million of net charges recorded in 2020, compared with charges of $56 million in 2021, for remediation efforts related to AlarisTM infusion pumps, as also discussed above;
◦Lower manufacturing costs resulting from continuous improvement projects which enhanced the efficiency of our operations;
◦The unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation, investments in simplification and other cost saving initiatives, higher raw material and freight costs, as well as product quality remediation expenses.
•Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2022 was lower compared with 2021, which reflected efforts to contain certain selling, travel and other administrative activities, partially offset by higher shipping costs. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was flat compared with 2020 primarily due to the increase in revenues in 2021, offset by higher travel and other administrative costs compared with 2020, which benefited from cost containment measures enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
•Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues was lower in 2022 compared with 2021, which reflected revenue growth that outpaced the timing of project spending. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues was higher in 2021 compared with 2020, which reflected our commitment to research and development through continued reinvestment into our growth initiatives.

Life Sciences Segment
The following summarizes Life Sciences revenues by organizational unit:

------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------- - ----------------- ----- ---------- ------ - ---- - ---- - ---- -
 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change
Integrated Diagnostic Solutions $ 4,185 $ 5,225 $ 3,532 (19.9) % (2.2) % (17.7) % 47.9 % 3.8 % 44.1 %
Biosciences 1,379 1,305 1,143 5.7 % (3.3) % 9.0 % 14.2 % 3.1 % 11.1 %
Total Life Sciences revenues $ 5,564 $ 6,530 $ 4,675 (14.8) % (2.4) % (12.4) % 39.7 % 3.6 % 36.1 %

32

Table of Contents
The Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit’s revenues related to COVID-19-only diagnostic testing on the BD VeritorTM Plus, BD VeritorTM At-Home and BD MaxTM Systems in 2022 of $511 million, were lower as compared with revenues from such testing products in 2021 of $1.956 billion. The Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit’s fiscal year 2022 revenues benefited from wide clinical adoption of our broader respiratory panel and the expanded base of instruments we installed during the peak levels of the pandemic to facilitate COVID-19-only testing. The Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit’s revenues also reflected growth in sales of our specimen management products due to a recovery of routine lab testing to pre-pandemic levels. The Biosciences unit's revenue growth in 2022 was driven by strong growth in sales of our reagents and instruments, including our recently launched research instruments. Demand for the Biosciences unit’s research reagents was favorably impacted by continued adoption of the unit’s e-commerce platform.
The Life Sciences segment's revenues in 2021 primarily reflected a favorable comparison to 2020, which was significantly impacted by pandemic-related declines in both units. Revenue growth in the Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit was also driven by sales related to COVID-19-only diagnostic testing on the BD VeritorTM Plus and BD MaxTM Systems. Routine diagnostic testing levels in the Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit continued to improve over the course of 2021 and the unit benefited from high demand for our specimen management portfolio, automated blood cultures and ID/AST testing solutions. The Biosciences unit's revenue growth in 2021 benefited from strong demand for instruments and reagents as lab utilization returned to normal levels.
Life Sciences segment operating income was as follows:

------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- - - -----
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Life Sciences segment operating income $ 1,710 $ 2,391 $ 1,405

Segment operating income as % of Life Sciences revenues 30.7 % 36.6 % 30.0 %

The Life Sciences segment's operating income in 2022 was driven by lower gross profit margin and higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues. Operating income in 2021 reflected improved gross profit margin and operating expense performance.
•The Life Sciences segment’s lower gross profit margin in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily reflected the following:
◦The decline in COVID-19-only testing revenues compared with the prior-period, as well as higher raw material and freight costs; partially offset by
◦A favorable comparison to the prior-year period, which reflected approximately $93 million of excess and obsolete inventory expenses related to COVID-19-only testing inventory, as well as favorable impacts in 2022 from continuous improvement projects in our manufacturing facilities, price, product mix, foreign currency translation and a one-time benefit from licensing income.
•The Life Sciences segment’s higher gross profit margin in fiscal year 2021 compared with 2020 primarily reflected the following:
◦A favorable impact on product mix from the Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit's sales related to COVID-19 testing and the recovery of demand for other products with higher margins;
◦A favorable comparison to the prior-year period which was unfavorably impacted by increased levels of manufacturing overhead costs that were recognized in the period because of the COVID-19 pandemic, rather than capitalized within inventory;
◦The unfavorable impacts of foreign currency translation and the recognition of approximately $93 million of excess and obsolete inventory expenses, as noted above.

33

Table of Contents
•Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2022 was higher compared with 2021 primarily due to the current-period decline in revenues. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Life Sciences revenues in 2021 was lower compared with 2020 primarily due to the increase in revenues in 2021, partially offset by higher travel and other administrative costs compared with 2020, which benefited from cost containment measures enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as higher shipping costs and selling costs in 2021 associated with COVID-19 testing solutions.
•Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues was higher in 2022 compared with 2021, primarily due to the current-period decline in revenues. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was lower compared with 2020, primarily due to the increase in revenues in 2021, partially offset by additional investments in COVID-19 testing solutions.
Interventional Segment
The following summarizes Interventional revenues by organizational unit:

----------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------- - ----------------- ----- ---------- ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- -
 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change
Surgery $ 1,400 $ 1,296 $ 1,121 8.0 % (1.3) % 9.3 % 15.7 % 1.3 % 14.4 %
Peripheral Intervention 1,759 1,711 1,511 2.8 % (2.0) % 4.8 % 13.2 % 3.0 % 10.2 %
Urology and Critical Care 1,305 1,232 1,130 5.9 % (1.9) % 7.8 % 9.0 % 1.4 % 7.6 %
Total Interventional revenues $ 4,464 $ 4,239 $ 3,762 5.3 % (1.8) % 7.1 % 12.7 % 2.0 % 10.7 %

The Surgery unit’s revenues in 2022 reflected strong global sales of our advanced repair and reconstruction platforms, as well as a benefit from the unit’s fiscal year 2021 acquisition of Tepha, Inc. Fiscal year 2022 revenues in the Peripheral Intervention unit reflected strong sales of our oncology products and growth attributable to the unit’s fiscal year 2022 acquisition of Venclose, Inc. and the relaunch of our VenovoTM system. The Peripheral Intervention unit’s revenues in 2022 were unfavorably impacted during the second half of the fiscal year by supply constraints and hospital labor shortages. The Urology and Critical Care unit’s revenue growth in 2022 was driven by strong demand for acute urology products.
The Interventional segment's revenues in 2021 reflected a favorable comparison to 2020, which was significantly impacted by pandemic-related declines in our Surgery and Peripheral Intervention units. Fiscal year 2021 revenue growth in the Interventional segment was also driven by stronger market demand for the Surgery unit’s infection prevention platform and the Peripheral Intervention unit's oncology products. Revenues in the Peripheral Intervention unit additionally benefited from sales attributable to its fiscal year 2020 acquisition of Straub Medical AG. Fiscal year 2021 revenue growth in our Surgery and Peripheral Intervention units was unfavorably impacted by resurgences in COVID-19 infections. The Urology and Critical Care unit’s growth in 2021 showed strong demand for acute urology products and the unit's targeted temperature management portfolio.

34

Table of Contents
Interventional segment operating income was as follows:

-------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- - - ---
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Interventional segment operating income $ 1,081 $ 933 $ 724

Segment operating income as % of Interventional revenues 24.2 % 22.0 % 19.2 %

The Interventional segment's operating income in 2022 and 2021 was primarily driven by improved gross profit margin.
•The Interventional segment’s higher gross profit margin in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily reflected favorable impacts from price, favorable product mix and foreign currency translation, which were partially offset by higher freight costs.
•The Interventional segment’s higher gross profit margin in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily reflected the recovery of demand for products with higher margins and a favorable comparison to the prior-year period, which was unfavorably impacted by increased levels of manufacturing overhead costs that were recognized in the period because of the COVID-19 pandemic, rather than capitalized within inventory.
•Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues was higher in 2022 compared with 2021, as the prior-year period benefited from the curtailment of certain selling, travel and other administrative activities due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was lower compared with 2020 primarily due the recovery of segment revenues.
•Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues was lower in 2022 compared with 2021, as the increase in current-period revenues outpaced the timing of project spending. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues was higher in 2021 compared with 2020 which primarily reflected reinvestment into our growth initiatives.
Geographic Revenues
BD’s worldwide revenues by geography were as follows:

--------------------- ----- ------ ---- ----- ---- ------ ------------- ----------------- ------ ---------- ----------- - ----------------- ----- ---------- ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- -
 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change
United States $ 10,722 $ 10,371 $ 9,161 3.4 % — 3.4 % 13.2 % — 13.2 %
International 8,148 8,760 6,912 (7.0) % (4.9) % (2.1) % 26.7 % 6.2 % 20.5 %
Total revenues $ 18,870 $ 19,131 $ 16,074 (1.4) % (2.3) % 0.9 % 19.0 % 2.7 % 16.3 %

U.S. revenue growth in 2022 was driven by strong sales in all of the Medical segment’s units, as well as in the Interventional segment’s Surgery and Urology and Critical Care units. U.S. revenue growth in 2022 was unfavorably impacted by a comparison to 2021, which substantially benefited from sales in the Life Sciences segment's Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit related to COVID-19-only diagnostic testing, as further discussed above.
U.S. revenue growth in 2021 was primarily driven by sales related to COVID-19-only diagnostic testing in the Life Sciences segment's Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit. Strong fiscal year 2021 U.S. revenue growth in the Medical segment’s Medication Delivery Solutions unit and the Interventional segment’s Surgery and Peripheral Intervention units reflected favorable comparisons to prior-year period results, which were impacted

35

Table of Contents
by COVID-19 pandemic-related declines, as well as growth attributable to core products. U.S. revenue growth in 2021 also reflected strong demand in the Interventional segment’s Urology and Critical Care unit.
The decline in international revenues in 2022 was primarily driven by an unfavorable comparison to 2021, which substantially benefited from sales in the Life Sciences segment's Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit related to COVID-19-only diagnostic testing, as further discussed above. This fiscal year 2022 decline in international revenues was partially offset by strong sales in all of the Medical segment’s units, as well as in the Life Sciences segment’s Biosciences unit and the Interventional segment’s Surgery and Peripheral Intervention units.
International revenue growth in 2021 was largely driven by COVID-19-only diagnostic testing-related sales in the Life Sciences segment's Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit, as discussed further above, and by demand in the Medical segment’s Pharmaceutical Systems unit. Fiscal year 2021 international revenue growth was also driven by results in the Medical segment’s Medication Delivery Solutions and the Interventional segment’s Peripheral Intervention unit due to favorable comparisons to prior-year period results, which were impacted by COVID-19 pandemic-related declines, and growth attributable to core products. Fiscal year 2021 international revenue growth was unfavorably impacted by a decline in the Medical segment’s Medication Management Solutions unit, as further discussed above.
Emerging market revenues were as follows:

--------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ------------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------- - ----------------- ----- ---------- ---- - ---- - --- - ---- -
 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change
Emerging markets $ 2,904 $ 2,677 $ 2,240 8.5 % (1.7) % 10.2 % 19.5 % 3.0 % 16.5 %

Emerging market revenues in 2022 primarily reflected strong growth in Latin America and China, despite an unfavorable impact from pandemic-related lockdowns in China during 2022. Revenues in emerging markets in 2021 benefited from a favorable comparison to 2020 which was impacted by COVID-19 pandemic-related declines.
Specified Items
Reflected in the financial results for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were the following specified items:

----------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Integration costs (a) $ 68 $ 135 $ 214
Restructuring costs (a) 123 44 84

Separation-related items (b) 20 — —
Purchase accounting adjustments (c) 1,431 1,405 1,355
Transaction gain/loss, product and other litigation-related matters (d) 174 272 631
Investment gains/losses and asset impairments (e) 94 (46) 100
European regulatory initiative-related costs (f) 146 134 105
Impacts of debt extinguishment 24 185 8

Total specified items 2,082 2,128 2,497
Less: tax impact of specified items 366 348 392
After-tax impact of specified items $ 1,716 $ 1,780 $ 2,105

(a)Represents amounts associated with integration and restructuring activities which are primarily recorded in Acquisition-related integration and restructuring expense and are further discussed below.

36

Table of Contents
(b)Represents costs recorded to Other operating expense, net and incurred in connection with the separation of BD's former Diabetes Care business.
(c)Includes amortization and other adjustments related to the purchase accounting for acquisitions. BD’s amortization expense is recorded in Cost of products sold.
(d)Includes certain amounts recorded to Other operating expense, net which are detailed further below. The amounts in 2022, 2021 and 2020 also included net charges of $72 million, $56 million and $244 million, respectively, which were recorded within Cost of products sold related to the estimate of probable future product remediation costs, as further discussed below. The amount in 2022 additionally includes pension settlement costs of $73 million which were recorded to Other (expense) income, net.
(e)Includes non-cash (gains) losses recorded within Other (expense) income, net relating to certain investments. The amounts in 2022 and 2020 included total charges of $54 million and $98 million, respectively, recorded in Cost of products sold to write down the carrying value of certain assets.
(f)Represents costs incurred to develop processes and systems to establish initial compliance with the European Union Medical Device Regulation and the European Union In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Device Regulation, which represent a significant, unusual change to the existing regulatory framework. We consider these costs to be duplicative of previously incurred costs and/or one-off costs, which are limited to a specific period of time. These expenses, which are recorded in Cost of products sold and Research and development expense, include the cost of labor, other services and consulting (in particular, research and development and clinical trials) and supplies, travel and other miscellaneous costs.
Gross Profit Margin
The comparison of gross profit margins in 2022 and 2021 and the comparison of gross profit margins in 2021 and 2020 reflected the following impacts:

------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- - ---- ----- -
 2022 2021
Gross profit margin % prior-year period 45.1 % 42.3 %
Impact of purchase accounting adjustments and other specified items (0.5) % 2.9 %

Operating performance (0.4) % 0.4 %
Foreign currency translation 0.7 % (0.5) %
Gross profit margin % current-year period 44.9 % 45.1 %

The impact of other specified items on gross profit margin in 2022 included a non-cash asset impairment charge of $54 million in the Medical segment, as well as net charges of $72 million, compared with charges of $56 million in 2021, recorded for estimated future costs within the Medication Management Solutions unit associated with remediation efforts related to AlarisTM infusion pumps.
Operating performance in 2022 and 2021 reflected favorable impacts attributable to our ongoing continuous improvement projects. Operating performance in 2022 and 2021 were unfavorably impacted by higher raw material costs. Operating performance in 2022 was also impacted by higher labor costs, as well as by the following:
•Favorable impacts attributable to price, the optimization of our product mix, and the recovery of pre-pandemic demand for products with higher margins;
•A favorable comparison to 2021, which included approximately $93 million of excess and obsolete inventory expenses related to COVID-19-only testing inventory which were recognized by the Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit.
Operating performance in 2021 additionally reflected the following:

37

Table of Contents
•The recovery of demand for products with higher margins and the Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit's COVID-19-only testing sales. We re-invested over $200 million of the profits from these sales into our BD 2025 strategy focus on growth, simplification and empowerment.
•A favorable comparison to 2020 which was unfavorably impacted by increased levels of manufacturing overhead costs that were recognized in the period because of the COVID-19 pandemic, rather than capitalized within inventory; partially offset by
•The $93 million of excess and obsolete inventory expenses related to COVID-19-only testing inventory noted above.

Operating Expenses
Operating expenses in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- ----------------------------------- - ------------- ----- -----
 Increase (decrease) in basis points
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Selling and administrative expense $ 4,709 $ 4,719 $ 4,185
% of revenues 25.0 % 24.7 % 26.0 % 30 (130)

Research and development expense $ 1,256 $ 1,279 $ 1,039
% of revenues 6.7 % 6.7 % 6.5 % — 20

Acquisition-related integration and restructuring expense $ 192 $ 179 $ 299

Other operating expense, net $ 37 $ 203 $ 363

Selling and administrative
Higher selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily reflected higher shipping and selling costs in the current-year period, partially offset by a decrease in our deferred compensation plan liability due to market performance and favorable foreign currency translation. The investment losses on deferred compensation plan assets were recorded to Other (expense) income, net.
Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was lower compared with 2020 due to the recovery of revenues in 2021. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was unfavorably impacted by foreign currency translation and higher shipping costs as a result of expedited shipments relating to COVID-19, as well as by higher selling, travel and other administrative costs compared with 2020, which benefited from cost containment measures enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Research and development
Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues in 2022 primarily reflected the timing of project spending. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was higher compared with 2020 which reflected our reinvestment of COVID-19 testing-related sales profits into our growth initiatives and additional investments in COVID-19 testing solutions, as further discussed above. Spending in 2022, 2021 and 2020 reflected our continued commitment to invest in new products and platforms.
Acquisitions and other restructurings
Acquisition-related integration and restructuring expense in 2022 included restructuring costs related to simplification and other cost saving initiatives, as well as system integration costs. Restructuring expenses in 2022 included non-cash asset impairment charges of $19 million, as further discussed in Note 15 to the

38

Table of Contents
consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Costs in 2021 and 2020 included restructuring costs related to simplification and other cost saving initiatives, as well as restructuring and integration costs incurred due to our acquisition of C.R. Bard, Inc. in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. For further disclosures regarding the costs relating to restructurings, refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Other operating expense, net
Other operating expense in 2022, 2021 and 2020 included the following items which are further discussed in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- -- ---- ----- ---- --- ---- - ---
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Charges to record product liability reserves, including related defense costs (See Note 6) $ 21 $ 361 $ 378
Gains on sale-leaseback transactions (See Note 18) — (158) —
Separation-related items 20 — —

Other (4) — (15)
Other operating expense, net $ 37 $ 203 $ 363

Net Interest Expense

--------------------- ---- ----- ---- - ---- ----- - - -----
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Interest expense $ (398) $ (469) $ (528)
Interest income 16 9 7
Net interest expense $ (382) $ (460) $ (521)

Lower interest expense in 2022 and 2021 compared with the prior-year periods reflected lower overall interest rates on debt outstanding during 2022 and 2021, as well as the impact of debt repayments, particularly in 2021. Additional disclosures regarding our financing arrangements and debt instruments are provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Income Taxes
The income tax rates for continuing operations in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------------- ----- - ---- ----- ---- ---- -
 2022 2021 2020
Effective income tax rate for continuing operations 8.3 % 5.2 % 14.9 %

Impact, in basis points, from specified items (500) (620) (70)

The effective income tax rate for continuing operations in 2022 primarily reflected a tax impact from specified items that was less favorable compared with the benefits associated with specified items recognized in 2021. The effective income tax rate for continuing operations in 2021 reflected the impact of discrete tax items, as well as an impact from specified items in 2021 that was more favorable compared with the benefit associated with specified items in 2020.

39

Table of Contents
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations
Net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ------ - ------
 2022 2021 2020
Net income from continuing operations (Millions of dollars) $ 1,635 $ 1,604 $ 352
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 5.38 $ 5.18 $ 0.87

Unfavorable impact-specified items $ 5.97 $ 6.10 $ 7.45
Favorable (unfavorable) impact-foreign currency translation $ 0.14 $ (0.02) $ (0.16)

Financial Instrument Market Risk
We selectively use financial instruments to manage market risk, primarily foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk relating to our ongoing business operations. The counterparties to these contracts are highly rated financial institutions. We do not enter into financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Foreign Exchange Risk
BD and its subsidiaries transact business in various foreign currencies throughout Europe, Greater Asia, Canada and Latin America. We face foreign currency exposure from the effect of fluctuating exchange rates on payables and receivables relating to transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our functional currency. These payables and receivables primarily arise from intercompany transactions. We hedge substantially all such exposures, primarily through the use of forward contracts. We have also hedged the currency exposure associated with investments in certain foreign subsidiaries with instruments such as foreign currency-denominated debt and cross-currency swaps, which are designated as net investment hedges, as well as currency exchange contracts. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations, including sales, to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of a reporting period. We did not enter into contracts to hedge cash flows against these foreign currency fluctuations in fiscal year 2022 or 2021.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value. For foreign currency derivatives, market risk is determined by calculating the impact on fair value of an assumed change in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Fair values were estimated based upon observable inputs, specifically spot currency rates and foreign currency prices for similar assets and liabilities.
With respect to the foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding at September 30, 2022 and 2021, the impact that changes in the U.S. dollar would have on pre-tax earnings was estimated as follows:

------------------------------- ------------------- ---- ---- - ----
 Increase (decrease)
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
10% appreciation in U.S. dollar $ (63) $ (66)
10% depreciation in U.S. dollar $ 63 $ 66

These calculations do not reflect the impact of exchange gains or losses on the underlying transactions that would substantially offset the results of the derivative instruments.

Interest Rate Risk
When managing interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed and floating rate instruments. We may enter into interest rate swaps to help maintain this balance and manage debt and interest-bearing investments in tandem, since these items have an offsetting impact on interest rate exposure. For interest rate derivative instruments, fair values are measured based upon the present value of expected future cash flows using market-based observable inputs including credit risk and interest rate yield

40

Table of Contents
curves. Market risk for these instruments is determined by calculating the impact to fair value of an assumed change in interest rates across all maturities.
The impact that changes in interest rates would have on interest rate derivatives outstanding at September 30, 2022 and 2021, as well as the effect that changes in interest rates would have on our earnings or cash flows over a one-year period, based upon our overall interest rate exposure, were estimated as follows:

------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- --------------------------------------------- ---- --- ---- - --- - -
 Increase (decrease) to fair value of interest rate derivatives outstanding Increase (decrease) to earnings or cash flows
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2022 2021
10% increase in interest rates $ (4) $ 7 $ (1) $ —
10% decrease in interest rates $ 4 $ (7) $ 1 $ —

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our strong financial position and cash flow performance have provided us with the capacity to accelerate our innovation pipeline through investments in research and development, as well as through strategic acquisitions. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, our ability to generate operating cash flow, and if needed, our access to borrowings from our financing facilities provide us with sufficient liquidity to satisfy our foreseeable operating needs. The following table summarizes our consolidated statement of cash flows in 2022, 2021 and 2020:

----------------------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- ---- ------- - -------
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Net cash provided by (used for) continuing operations
Operating activities $ 2,471 $ 4,126 $ 2,937
Investing activities $ (3,220) $ (1,843) $ (1,190)
Financing activities $ (736) $ (3,306) $ 22

Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities
Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2022 reflected net income, adjusted by a change in operating assets and liabilities that was a net use of cash. This net use of cash primarily reflected higher levels of inventory and prepaid expenses, as well as lower levels of accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2022 additionally reflected a discretionary cash contribution of $134 million to fund our pension obligation.
Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2021 reflected higher net income, which was driven by strong revenue performance, adjusted by a change in operating assets and liabilities that was a net source of cash. This net source of cash primarily reflected higher levels of accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by higher levels of prepaid expenses, inventory and trade receivables. Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2021 additionally reflected a $16 million discretionary cash contribution to fund our pension obligation.
Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2020 reflected net income, adjusted by a change in operating assets and liabilities that was a net source of cash. This net source of cash primarily reflected higher levels of accounts payable and accrued expenses and lower levels of prepaid expenses, partially offset by higher levels of inventory and trade receivables.
Net Cash Flows from Continuing Investing Activities
Capital expenditures
Our investments in capital expenditures are focused on projects that enhance our cost structure and manufacturing capabilities, as well as support our BD 2025 strategy for growth and simplification. Capital

41

Table of Contents
expenditures of $973 million, $1.194 billion and $769 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, primarily related to manufacturing capacity expansions. Details of spending by segment are contained in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Acquisitions
Cash outflows for acquisitions in 2022 included a cash payment of $1.548 billion associated with our acquisition of Parata Systems in the fourth quarter of 2022, as well as cash payments relating to various strategic acquisitions we have executed as part of our growth strategy, including our acquisitions of MedKeeper, Scanwell Health, Inc, Tissuemed, Ltd., and Venclose, Inc. Cash outflows for acquisitions in 2021 and 2020 included cash payments relating to the strategic acquisitions of Tepha, Inc. and Straub Medical AG, respectively.
Net Cash Flows from Continuing Financing Activities
Net cash from continuing financing activities in 2022, 2021 and 2020 included the following significant cash flows:

--------------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- ---- ------- - -------
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Cash inflow (outflow)
Change in short term debt $ 230 $ — $ —
Change in credit facility borrowings $ — $ — $ (485)
Proceeds from long-term debt and term loans $ 497 $ 4,869 $ 3,389
Distribution from Embecta Corp. (see Note 2) $ 1,266 $ — $ —
Net transfer of cash to Embecta upon spin-off $ (265) $ — $ —
Payments of debt and term loans $ (805) $ (5,112) $ (4,664)
Proceeds from issuances of equity securities $ — $ — $ 2,917
Share repurchases $ (500) $ (1,750) $ —
Dividends paid $ (1,082) $ (1,048) $ (1,026)

Additional disclosures regarding the equity and debt-related financing activities detailed above are provided in Notes 4 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Debt-Related Activities

Certain measures relating to our total debt were as follows:

----------------------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- ---- ------ ---- - - ------
 2022 2021 2020
Total debt (Millions of dollars) $ 16,065 $ 17,610 $ 17,931

Weighted average cost of total debt 2.8 % 2.4 % 2.8 %
Total debt as a percentage of total capital (a) 37.3 % 41.1 % 41.3 %

(a) Represents shareholders’ equity, net non-current deferred income tax liabilities, and debt.

Additional disclosures regarding our debt instruments are provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

42

Table of Contents
Cash and Short-term Investments
At September 30, 2022, total worldwide cash and equivalents and short-term investments, including restricted cash, were $1.167 billion. Approximately half of these assets were held outside of the United States. We regularly review the amount of cash and short-term investments held outside of the United States and our historical foreign earnings are used to fund foreign investments or meet foreign working capital and property, plant and equipment expenditure needs. To fund cash needs in the United States, we rely on ongoing cash flow from U.S. operations, access to capital markets and remittances from foreign subsidiaries of earnings that are not considered to be permanently reinvested.
Financing Facilities
 We have a five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility in place which will expire in September 2026. The credit facility provides borrowings of up to $2.75 billion, with separate sub-limits of $100 million for letters of credit and swingline loans. The expiration date of the credit facility may be extended for up to two additional one year periods, subject to certain restrictions (including the consent of the lenders). The credit facility provides that we may, subject to additional commitments by lenders, request an additional $500 million of financing, for a maximum aggregate commitment under the credit facility of up to $3.25 billion. Proceeds from this facility may be used for general corporate purposes. There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility at September 30, 2022.
The agreement for our revolving credit facility contains the following financial covenants. We were in compliance with these covenants, as applicable, as of September 30, 2022.
•We are required to have a leverage coverage ratio of no more than:
◦4.25-to-1 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter following the closing of the credit facility; or
◦4.75-to-1 for the four full fiscal quarters following the consummation of a material acquisition.

We also have informal lines of credit outside the United States. We may, from time to time, access the commercial paper market as we manage working capital over the normal course of our business activities. We had $230 million commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of September 30, 2022. Also, over the normal course of our business activities, we transfer certain trade receivable assets to third parties under factoring agreements. Additional disclosures regarding sales of trade receivable assets are provided in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Access to Capital and Credit Ratings
Our corporate credit ratings with the rating agencies Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (“S&P”), Moody's Investor Service (“Moody's”) and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) were as follows at September 30, 2022:

--------------------- ------ ------- ------
 S&P Moody’s Fitch
Ratings:
Senior Unsecured Debt BBB Baa2 BBB
Commercial Paper A-2 P-2 F2
Outlook Stable Stable Stable

In June 2022, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) upgraded our senior unsecured rating to Baa2 from Baa3. Moody’s also updated BD’s commercial paper rating to P-2 from P-3 and revised its outlook on our ratings from Positive to Stable. Also in June 2022, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) upgraded our senior unsecured rating to BBB from BBB- and revised its outlook on our ratings from Positive to Stable. In addition, Fitch assigned us with a commercial paper rating of F2. Our corporate credit ratings with Standard & Poor's Ratings Services at September 30, 2022 were unchanged compared with our ratings at September 30, 2021.

43

Table of Contents
Lower corporate debt ratings and downgrades of our corporate credit ratings or other credit ratings may increase our cost of borrowing. We believe that given our debt ratings, our financial management policies, our ability to generate cash flow and the non-cyclical, geographically diversified nature of our businesses, we would have access to additional short-term and long-term capital should the need arise. A rating reflects only the view of a rating agency and is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Ratings can be revised upward or downward at any time by a rating agency if such rating agency decides that circumstances warrant such a change.
Contractual Obligations
In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. Information regarding our obligations under purchase, debt and lease arrangements are provided in Notes 6, 16 and 18, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Critical Accounting Policies
The following discussion supplements the descriptions of our accounting policies contained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex and, consequently, actual results could differ from those estimates. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. For any given estimate or assumption made by management, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Actual results that differ from management’s estimates could have an unfavorable effect on our consolidated financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements:
Revenue Recognition
Our revenues are primarily recognized when the customer obtains control of the product sold, which is generally upon shipment or delivery, depending on the delivery terms specified in the sales agreement. Revenues associated with certain instruments and equipment for which installation is complex, and therefore significantly affects the customer’s ability to use and benefit from the product, are recognized when customer acceptance of these installed products has been confirmed. For certain service arrangements, including extended warranty and software maintenance contracts, revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term. The majority of revenues relating to extended warranty contracts associated with certain instruments and equipment is generally recognized within a few years whereas deferred revenue relating to software maintenance contracts is generally recognized over a longer period.
Our agreements with customers within certain organizational units including Medication Management Solutions, Integrated Diagnostic Solutions and Biosciences, contain multiple performance obligations including both products and certain services noted above. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately may require judgment. The transaction price for these agreements is allocated to each performance obligation based upon its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling price is the amount at which we would sell a promised good or service separately to a customer. We generally estimate standalone selling prices using list prices and a consideration of typical discounts offered to customers. The use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of revenue deferral.
Our gross revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which include rebates and sales discounts. These deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and judgment is required when determining the impact

44

Table of Contents
on gross revenues for a reporting period. Additional factors considered in the estimate of our rebate liability include the quantification of inventory that is either in stock at or in transit to our distributors, as well as the estimated lag time between the sale of product and the payment of corresponding rebates.
Impairment of Assets
Goodwill assets are subject to impairment reviews at least annually, or whenever indicators of impairment arise. Intangible assets with finite lives, including developed technology, and other long-lived assets, are periodically reviewed for impairment when impairment indicators are present.
We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. Our reporting units generally represent one level below reporting segments. Our review of goodwill for each reporting unit compares the fair value of the reporting unit, estimated using an income approach, with its carrying value. Our annual goodwill impairment test performed on July 1, 2022 did not result in any impairment charges, as the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value.
We generally use the income approach to derive the fair value for impairment assessments. This approach calculates fair value by estimating future cash flows attributable to the assets and then discounting these cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. We selected this method because we believe the income approach most appropriately measures the value of our income producing assets. This approach requires significant management judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, appropriate discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with BD’s business plans. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the asset. Actual results may differ from management’s estimates.
Income Taxes
BD maintains valuation allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, management evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset.
BD conducts business and files tax returns in numerous countries and currently has tax audits in progress in a number of tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, we record accruals for uncertain tax positions based on the technical support for the positions, our past audit experience with similar situations, and the potential interest and penalties related to the matters. BD’s effective tax rate in any given period could be impacted if, upon resolution with taxing authorities, we prevailed in positions for which reserves have been established, or we were required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves.
We have reviewed our needs in the United States for possible repatriation of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and we continue to invest foreign subsidiaries earnings outside of the United States to fund foreign investments or meet foreign working capital and property, plant and equipment expenditure needs. As a result, we are permanently reinvested with respect to all of our historical foreign earnings as of September 30, 2022. Additional disclosures regarding our accounting for income taxes are provided in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Contingencies
We are involved, both as a plaintiff and a defendant, in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including, without limitation, product liability and environmental matters, as further discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. We establish accruals to the extent probable future losses are estimable (in

45

Table of Contents
the case of environmental matters, without considering possible third-party recoveries). A determination of the amount of accruals for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual matter. When appropriate, the accrual is developed with the consultation of outside counsel and, as in the case of certain mass tort litigation, the expertise of an actuarial specialist regarding the nature, timing and extent of each matter. The accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in our litigation strategy. We record expected recoveries from product liability insurance carriers or other parties when realization of recovery is deemed probable.
Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, liability insurance. In the opinion of management, any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on BD’s consolidated results of operations and consolidated net cash flows.
Benefit Plans
We have significant net pension and other postretirement and postemployment benefit obligations that are measured using actuarial valuations which include assumptions for the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion.
The discount rate is selected each year based on investment grade bonds and other factors as of the measurement date (September 30). Specifically for the U.S. plans, we will use a discount rate of 5.62% for 2023, which was based on an actuarially-determined, company-specific yield curve to measure liabilities as of the measurement date. To calculate the pension expense in 2023, we will apply the individual spot rates along the yield curve that correspond with the timing of each future cash outflow for benefit payments in order to calculate interest cost and service cost. Additional disclosures regarding the method to be used in calculating the interest cost and service cost components of pension expense for 2023 are provided in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, although reviewed each year, changes less frequently due to the long-term nature of the assumption. This assumption does not impact the measurement of assets or liabilities as of the measurement date; rather, it is used only in the calculation of pension expense. To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider many factors, including our historical assumptions compared with actual results; benchmark data; expected returns on various plan asset classes, as well as current and expected asset allocations. We will use a long-term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption of 7.25% for the U.S. pension plan in 2023. We believe our discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions are appropriate based upon the above factors.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions for our U.S. pension and other postretirement and postemployment plans are as follows:
•Discount rate — A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $7 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the total U.S. net pension and other postretirement and postemployment benefit plan costs. This estimate assumes no change in the shape or steepness of the company-specific yield curve used to plot the individual spot rates that will be applied to the future cash outflows for future benefit payments in order to calculate interest and service cost.
•Expected return on plan assets — A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $4 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on U.S. pension plan costs.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. BD and its representatives may also, from time to time, make certain forward-looking statements in publicly released

46

Table of Contents
materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, and our reports to shareholders. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as “plan,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “will,” “may,” “anticipate,” “estimate” and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and financial performance (including volume growth, pricing, sales and earnings per share growth, and cash flows) and statements regarding our strategy for growth, future product development, regulatory approvals, competitive position and expenditures. All statements that address our future operating performance or events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future are forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are, and will be, based on management’s then-current views and assumptions regarding future events, developments and operating performance, and speak only as of their dates. Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from our expectations and projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Furthermore, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise, except as required by applicable law or regulations.
The following are some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements. The Russia and Ukraine conflict may also heighten the impact of certain of these factors described below and the Risk Factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. For further discussion of certain of these factors, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
•The impact of inflation and disruptions in our global supply chain on BD and our suppliers (particularly sole-source suppliers and providers of sterilization services), including fluctuations in the cost and availability of oil-based resins and other raw materials, as well as certain components, used in the production or sterilization of our products, transportation constraints and delays, product shortages, energy shortages or increased energy costs, labor shortages in the United States and elsewhere, and increased operating and labor costs.
•Any impact the COVID-19 pandemic, including resurgences in COVID-19 infections or new strains of the virus or additional or extended lockdowns or other restrictions imposed by government entities, may have on our business, the global economy and the global healthcare system. This may include decreases in the demand for our products, disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers and customers (including employee absenteeism) or disruptions to our supply chain.
•Factors such as the rate of vaccination, the effectiveness of vaccines against different strains, the rate of infections, and competitive factors that could impact the demand and pricing for our COVID-19 diagnostics testing.
•General global, regional or national economic downturns and macroeconomic trends, including heightened inflation, capital market volatility, interest rate and currency rate fluctuations, and economic slowdown or recession, that may result in unfavorable conditions that could negatively affect demand for our products and services, impact the prices we can charge for our products and services, or impair our ability to produce our products.
•Changes in the way healthcare services are delivered, including transition of more care from acute to non-acute settings and increased focus on chronic disease management, which may affect the demand for our products and services. Additionally, budget constraints and staffing shortages, particularly shortages of nursing staff may affect the prioritization of healthcare services, which could also impact the demand for certain of our products and services.
•Competitive factors that could adversely affect our operations, including new product introductions and technologies (for example, new forms of drug delivery) by our current or future competitors, consolidation or strategic alliances among healthcare companies, distributors and/or payers of healthcare to improve their competitive position or develop new models for the delivery of healthcare, increased

47

Table of Contents
pricing pressure due to the impact of low-cost manufacturers, patents attained by competitors (particularly as patents on our products expire), new entrants into our markets and changes in the practice of medicine.
•Risks relating to our overall level of indebtedness, including our ability to service our debt and refinance our indebtedness, which is dependent upon the capital markets and the overall macroeconomic environment and our financial condition at such time.
•The adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
•Our ability to achieve our projected level or mix of product sales, as our earnings forecasts are based on projected sales volumes and pricing of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others.
•Changes in reimbursement practices of governments or third-party payers, or adverse decisions relating to our products by such payers, which could reduce demand for our products or the price we can charge for such products.
•Cost-containment efforts in the U.S. or in other countries in which we do business, such as alternative payment reform and increased use of competitive bidding and tenders, including, without limitation, any expansion of the volume-based procurement process in China or implementation of similar cost-containment efforts.
•Changes in the domestic and foreign healthcare industry or in medical practices that result in a reduction in procedures using our products or increased pricing pressures, including cost-reduction measures instituted by and the continued consolidation among healthcare providers.
•Changing customer preferences and requirements, such as increased demand for products with lower environmental footprint, and for companies to produce and demonstrate progress against GHG reduction plans and targets.
•The impact of changes in U.S. federal laws and policies that could affect fiscal and tax policies, healthcare and international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements. In particular, tariffs or other trade barriers imposed by the U.S. or other countries could adversely impact our supply chain costs or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations.
•The risks associated with the spin-off of our former Diabetes Care business, including factors that could adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits of the spin-off, or the qualification of the spin-off as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
•Security breaches of our information systems or our products, which could impair our ability to conduct business, result in the loss of BD trade secrets or otherwise compromise sensitive information of BD or its customers, suppliers and other business partners, or of customers' patients, including sensitive personal data, or result in product efficacy or safety concerns for certain of our products, and result in actions by regulatory bodies or civil litigation.
•Difficulties inherent in product development, including the potential inability to successfully continue technological innovation, successfully complete clinical trials, obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and registrations in the United States and abroad, obtain intellectual property protection for our products, obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement for new products, or gain and maintain market approval of products, as well as the possibility of infringement claims by competitors with respect to patents or other intellectual property rights, all of which could preclude or delay commercialization of a product. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals or clearances from the FDA or other regulatory agencies or changes in the regulatory process may also delay product launches and increase development costs.
•The impact of business combinations or divestitures, including any volatility in earnings relating to acquisition-related costs, and our ability to successfully integrate any business we may acquire.

48

Table of Contents
•Our ability to penetrate or expand our operations in emerging markets, which depends on local economic and political conditions, and how well we are able to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities and distribution networks.
•Conditions in international markets, including social and political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activity, governmental changes, restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders, tariffs and other protectionist measures, difficulties in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights and governmental expropriation of assets. Our international operations also increase our compliance risks, including risks under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as regulatory and privacy laws.
•Deficit reduction efforts or other actions that reduce the availability of government funding for healthcare and research, which could weaken demand for our products and result in additional pricing pressures, as well as create potential collection risks associated with such sales.
•Fluctuations in university or U.S. and international governmental funding and policies for life sciences research.
•Fluctuations in the demand for products we sell to pharmaceutical companies that are used to manufacture, or are sold with, the products of such companies, as a result of funding constraints, consolidation or otherwise.
•The effects of regulatory or other events that adversely impact our supply chain, including our ability to manufacture (including sterilize) our products (particularly where production of a product line or sterilization operations are concentrated in one or more plants), source materials or components or services from suppliers (including sole-source suppliers) that are needed for such manufacturing (including sterilization), or provide products to our customers, including events that impact key distributors.
•Natural disasters, including the impacts of climate change, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, fires, earthquakes and floods and other extreme weather events, global health pandemics, war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts that could cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability, resulting in decreased demand for our products, or adversely affecting our manufacturing and distribution capabilities or causing interruptions in our supply chain.
•Pending and potential future litigation or other proceedings asserting, and/or investigations concerning and/or subpoenas and requests seeking information with respect to, alleged violations of law (including in connection with federal and/or state healthcare programs (such as Medicare or Medicaid) and/or sales and marketing practices (such as investigative subpoenas and the civil investigative demands received by BD)), potential anti-corruption and related internal control violations under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, antitrust claims, securities law claims, product liability (which may involve lawsuits seeking class action status or seeking to establish multi-district litigation proceedings, including pending claims relating to our hernia repair implant products, surgical continence products for women and vena cava filter products), claims with respect to environmental matters, data privacy breaches and patent infringement, and the availability or collectability of insurance relating to any such claims.
•New or changing laws and regulations affecting our domestic and foreign operations, or changes in enforcement practices, including laws relating to trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxation (including tax reforms that could adversely impact multinational corporations), sales practices, environmental protection, price controls, and licensing and regulatory requirements for new products and products in the post-marketing phase. In particular, the U.S. and other countries may impose new requirements regarding registration, labeling or prohibited materials that may require us to re-register products already on the market or otherwise impact our ability to market our products. Environmental laws, particularly with respect to the emission of greenhouse gases, are also becoming more stringent throughout the world, which may increase our costs of operations or necessitate changes in our manufacturing plants or processes or those of our suppliers, or result in liability to BD.

49

Table of Contents
•Product efficacy or safety concerns regarding our products resulting in product holds or recalls, regulatory action on the part of the FDA or foreign counterparts (including restrictions on future product clearances and civil penalties), declining sales and product liability claims, and damage to our reputation. As a result of the CareFusion acquisition, our U.S. infusion pump business is operating under a Consent Decree with the FDA. The Consent Decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order our U.S. infusion pump business to cease manufacturing and distributing products, recall products or take other actions, and order the payment of significant monetary damages if the business subject to the decree fails to comply with any provision of the Consent Decree. We are undertaking certain remediation of our BD AlarisTM System, and are currently shipping the product in the U.S., only in cases of medical necessity and to remediate recalled software versions. We will not be able to fully resume commercial operations for the BD Alaris System in the U.S. until BD’s 510(k) submission relating to the product has been cleared by the FDA. No assurances can be given as to when or if clearance will be obtained from the FDA.
•The effect of adverse media exposure or other publicity regarding BD’s business or operations, including the effect on BD’s reputation or demand for its products.
•The effect of market fluctuations on the value of assets in BD’s pension plans and on actuarial interest rate and asset return assumptions, which could require BD to make additional contributions to the plans or increase our pension plan expense.
•Our ability to obtain the anticipated benefits of restructuring programs, if any, that we may undertake.
•Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the FASB or the SEC.
The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors that could impact our ability to achieve results described in any forward-looking statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[refer to Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements]:
 certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional expense, net, and accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[Notes 4 and 16]:
(4)As equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[PART II

 Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37

[discussed in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

['s political and economic policies and inflationary conditions. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may also affect the reported value of BD’s assets and liabilities, as well as our cash flows. A discussion of the financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we may attempt to address any impact is contained in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any exchange rate hedging activities we engage in may only offset a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can effectively mitigate these risks.
Changes in reimbursement practices of third-party payers or other cost containment measures could affect the demand for our products and the prices at which they are sold.
Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities (including Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs) and private insurers for the costs of our products. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, which can vary among public and private sources and by country, may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products in a particular jurisdiction. Reimbursement rates can also affect the market acceptance rate of new technologies and products. Reforms to reimbursement systems in the U.S. or abroad, changes in coverage or reimbursement rates by private payers, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our products or result in denial of reimbursement for those products, which could adversely affect customer demand or the price customers are willing to pay for such products. See “Third-Party Reimbursement” under Item 1. Business.
Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs in the U.S. and other countries where we do business may also put industry-wide pressure on medical device or clinical diagnostic pricing. In the U.S., these include, among others, value-based purchasing and managed care arrangements. Governments in China and other countries are also using various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, including increased use of competitive bidding and tenders as well as price regulation.

14

Table of Contents

Our future growth is dependent in part upon the development of new products, and there can be no assurance that such products will be developed.
A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on innovation and new product development. New product development customer needs, innovate and develop new products and technologies, successfully complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the U.S. and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain appropriate intellectual property protections, and gain and maintain market acceptance of our products. In addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay our commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development, or that we may seek to develop in the future, will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and launch new products, our ability to maintain or expand our market position in the markets in which we participate may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the ongoing global semiconductor chip and component shortage could impact certain critical components of our R&D process, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our international operations subject us to certain business risks.
A substantial amount of our sales come from our operations outside the U.S., and we intend to continue to currency exchange (discussed above), our business in these foreign markets is subject to general political conditions, including any political instability (such as those resulting from war, terrorism with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate, changes to international trade agreements and treaties, increases in trade protectionism, or the weakening or loss of certain intellectual and labeling of products and import or export licensing requirements, could affect the availability of our products in these markets. In addition to these broader market conditions, our operations may systems. We also experience longer payment terms for account receivables in foreign jurisdictions than we experience in the U.S., and we face increased difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing our foreign operations.
The success of our operations outside the U.S. also depends, in part, on our ability to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to, among other things, our production facilities and sales and distribution networks. These and other factors may adversely impact our ability to pursue our growth strategy in these markets.
In addition, our international operations are governed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more enforcement proceedings reputation.

15

Table of Contents
Reductions in customers’ research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our business.
We sell products to researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products.
We need to attract and retain key employees to be competitive.
Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to attract effectively recruit and retain qualified executives and skilled employees, we could encounter operational disruptions or other negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The military conflict between Russia and Ukraine may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The military conflict in Ukraine has increased global economic and capital markets.

Operational Risks
Breaches or breakdowns of our information and technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
We are increasingly reliant upon a number of information and technology systems to operate our business. We process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations, including

16

Table of Contents
sensitive personal or proprietary information. In addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, cloud and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) solutions, data hosting and processing facilities, tools and purposes.
Cyberattacks continue to increase in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect for periods of time, especially as they relate to attacks on third-party providers or their vendors. Such attacks are often carried out by motivated and highly skilled actors, who are increasingly well-resourced. Our information systems, as well as those of attacks. We have also experienced instances of unauthorized access to our systems in the past and expect to be subject to similar cyberattacks in the future. In this increasingly hostile environment, being accessed, destroyed or stolen, which could adversely affect our competitive position in the market. Likewise, we or our third-party providers could suffer disruption of our operations and other damage, litigation and damage to our relationships with vendors, business partners and customers.
Unauthorized tampering, adulteration or interference with our products may also create issues with product could also impact our compliance with privacy and other laws and regulations and could result in actions by regulatory bodies or civil litigation.
While we have made investments to address these threats that could have a material adverse impact on our business.
Cost volatility could adversely affect our operations.
Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by volatility in the cost of raw pressures in our supply chain, we may not be able to completely offset all the increases in our operational costs.

17

Table of Contents
A reduction or interruption in the supply of certain raw materials and components could adversely affect our operating results.
We purchase many different types of raw materials and components used in our products, some of which are not available from multiple sources. global supply chain network, including to the cost and availability of raw materials and components due to shortages and cost inflation.
The U.S. and other governments may enact or use laws and regulations, such as the Defense Production Act or export restrictions, to ensure availability of needed COVID-19 testing and vaccination delivery devices or to address other national emergencies. Any such action or interruption in supply of these raw materials and components could adversely impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Interruption of our manufacturing or sterilization operations could adversely affect our business.
We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In some with customers.
In addition, many of our products require sterilization prior to sale, and we utilize both BD facilities and third parties for this process. In some instances, only a few facilities are qualified under applicable regulations to conduct this sterilization. To the extent we or our third-party providers are unable to sterilize our products, whether due to lack of capacity, availability or at all, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.
At a broader level, there is increased focus on the use and emission of ethylene oxide by the U.S. Environmental fugitive emissions control technology, limit the use of ethylene oxide or take other actions, which would impact BD’s operations and further reduce the available capacity to sterilize medical devices and healthcare products, and could also result in additional costs. Governmental agencies may also regulate the use and emission of ethylene oxide. If any existing regulatory requirements or any such in place to mitigate the impact of any such disruption, although these plans may not be able to fully offset such impact, for the reasons noted above. See “Item 1. Business - Regulation” for a

18

Table of Contents
discussion of the consent order BD entered into with the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the risk related to sterilization operations generally.
Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Climate change resulting from increased medical care facilities and other customers.
There has been increased focus by federal, international, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies to combat and/or limit the effects of climate change or results of operations.
Additionally, the impacts of climate change may further influence customer preferences and requirements, such as increased demand for products with lower environmental footprints, of market share.
Legal, Quality and Regulatory Risks
We are subject to lawsuits.
We are or have been a defendant in a number of lawsuits, including, among others, purported class action lawsuits for alleged Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We could be subject to additional lawsuits, governmental investigations, subpoenas and financial condition and liquidity, and could distract management from the operations of the business.
Reserves established for estimated losses with respect to legal proceedings do not represent an exact of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges materially in

19

Table of Contents
excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. Any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.
With respect to certain litigation, we believe that some settlements and judgments, as well as legal defense costs, may be covered in whole or in part and we may not be able to obtain additional insurance on acceptable terms or at all that will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities.
We are subject to extensive regulation.
Our operations 
 impact our ability to market our products in those countries.
Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our 
 operating under a warning letter issued by the FDA. For more information regarding the consent decree and warning letter, see “Regulation” under Item 1. Business.
As previously disclosed, we are undertaking certain remediation of our BD Alaris™ System, and are currently shipping the product in the U.S. only in cases of medical necessity and to remediate recalled software versions. We will not be able to will be obtained from the FDA.

20

Table of Contents
In addition, the European Union (“EU”) has adopted the EU Medical Device Regulation (the “EU MDR”) and the In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (the “EU IVDR”), each of which impose stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the area of clinical evidence requirements, quality systems and post-market surveillance. The EU 
We are also subject to complex and frequently changing privacy and data protection laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. as well as in all other regions where BD operates, regarding the collection, and investigations, adverse publicity, loss of competitive advantage and customer trust, as well as privacy litigation and civil lawsuits with damages.
The importance of privacy laws, rules and regulations and create significant compliance challenges while maintaining our global reach. In addition, certain privacy and data protection laws may apply to us indirectly through our customers, manufacturers, a cybersecurity breach, or the failure of an information technology system owned or operated by us or a third party with which we partner or its vendor.
Defects or quality issues associated with our products could adversely affect the results of our operations.
The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, component failures, unapproved or improper use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks or other information relating to the use of our products can lead to injury or other serious adverse events. Such events have in the in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. A recall could result

21

Table of Contents
in significant costs and lost sales and customers, enforcement actions and/or investigations by or the imposition of post-market approval requirements.
Our operations are dependent in part on patents and other intellectual property assets.
Many of our businesses rely on patent, trademark and other that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to compete with us in those countries.
We also rely on trade secrets and developed by our competitors.
The loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual property assets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.
Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness
We may not be able to service all of our indebtedness.
We depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled debt payments. However, our ability to generate sufficient adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we may not be able to refinance existing debt on favorable or comparable terms.
The agreements that govern our indebtedness impose restrictions that may affect our ability to operate our businesses.
The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain various affirmative and negative covenants that may, subject and acceleration under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations.

22

Table of Contents
Risks Relating to the Spin-off of Embecta Corp.
Risks relating to spin-off of Embecta Corp.
 On April 1, 2022, we completed the spin-off of Embecta Corp. (Embecta) (NASDAQ: EMBC), which holds otherwise satisfied, the spin-off may not qualify for tax-free treatment, which could result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities for BD and its shareholders. Additionally, there can be no assurances that BD will be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to result from the spin-off.
General Business Risks
We cannot guarantee that any of our strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful.
We seek to supplement our internal growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such transactions are inherently risky, and the integration of any newly-acquired business requires significant effort and management attention. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, any past or future transaction will be successful.

Natural disasters, war and other events beyond our control could disrupt our business and adversely affect our future revenues and operating income.
Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, wildfires and floods and other extreme weather events (including those caused by climate change), war, global health crises, decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers.

23

Table of Contents
Information About our Executive Officers
The following is a list of the executive officers of BD, their ages and all positions and offices held by each of them during the past five years. There is no family relationship between any executive officer or director of BD.

------------------------- --- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name Age Position
Thomas E. Polen 49 Chairman since April 2021; Chief Executive Officer since January 2020; President since April 2017; Chief Operating Officer from October 2018 to January 2020; and Executive Vice President and President - Medical Segment from October 2014 to April 2017.
Richard Byrd 55 Executive Vice President and President, Interventional Segment since September 2022; Worldwide President, BD Medication Delivery Solutions from March 2019 to September 2022; Worldwide President, Preanalytical Systems from December 2016 to February 2019.
Christopher J. DelOrefice 51 Executive Vice President Johnson & Johnson from June 2017 to August 2018; and Vice President, Finance, North America, Johnson & Johnson Consumer, March 2014 to June 2017.
Antoine C. Ezell 53 Executive Vice President, President, Eli Lilly.
Michael Garrison 54 Executive Vice President and President, Medical Segment since September 2022; Worldwide President, BD Medication Management Solutions from March 2020 to September 2022; Worldwide President, BD Surgery from December 2018 to March 2020; Vice President and General Manager Worldwide Infusion Systems from July 2016 to December 2018.
Roland Goette 60 Executive Vice President and President, EMEA since May 2017; and President, Europe from October 2014 to May 2017.
David B. Hickey 60 Executive Vice President and President, Life Sciences Segment since January 2021; President, Integrated Diagnostics Solutions from October 2019 to January 2021; and President, Diagnostic Systems from July 2016 to September 2019.
Samrat S. Khichi 55 Executive Vice President, Corporate Development, President and General Counsel from December 2017 to May 2019; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, C.R. Bard, Inc. from July 2014 to December 2017.
Pavan Mocherla 53 Executive from August 2017 to December 2017.
Shana Neal 57 Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer since April 2022; Chief Human Resources Officer of Owens & Minor from April 2018 to March 2022; Senior Vice President, Human Resources of BD from January 2017 to March 2018.

24

Table of Contents

Item  1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
None.

Item 2.    Properties.
BD’s executive offices are located in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey. As of September 30, 2022, BD owned or leased 334 facilities throughout the world, comprising approximately 25,651,266 square feet of manufacturing, warehousing, administrative, and research facilities. The U.S. facilities, including those in Puerto Rico, comprise approximately 8,020,022 square feet of owned and 4,666,986 square feet of leased space. The international facilities the world.
Operations in each of BD’s business segments are conducted at both U.S. and international locations. Particularly in the international marketplace, facilities often serve more than one business 
 utilized and operating at normal capacity.
The U.S. facilities are located in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, Rico.
The international facilities are as follows:
- Europe, Middle East, Africa, which includes facilities in Austria, Belgium, Bosnia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, England, Finland, France, Germany, Emirates and Zambia.
- Greater Asia, which includes facilities in Australia, Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
- Latin America, which includes facilities in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay.
- Canada.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to certain legal proceedings is included in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.

25

Table of Contents
PART II

 Item 5.    Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
BD’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

['s Diabetes Care business, into a separate, publicly-traded company. The historical results of the Diabetes Care business (previously included in BD’s Medical segment), as well as interest expense related to indebtedness incurred by Embecta prior to the spin-off date, have been reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods prior to the spin-off date of April 1, 2022. Additional disclosures regarding our spin-off of the Diabetes Care business are provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Key Trends Affecting Results of Operations
As noted above, our products are manufactured and sold worldwide, which exposes our operations, supply chain and suppliers to various global macroeconomic factors. The factors which were most impactful to our fiscal year 2022 results and that continue to be impactful to our operating results include the following:
•Inflation, which has increased the costs of raw materials, components, labor, energy, and logistical services;
•Availability of skilled labor (especially in North America), global energy sources, raw materials and electronic components; and
•Constrained logistics capacity related to the movement of goods around the globe.
During fiscal year 2022, the shortages of certain raw materials and components, delays in global transportation and labor shortages in our manufacturing facilities increased lead times for some of our product

28

Table of Contents
offerings. Also, significant inflationary pressures impacted our supply chain costs in certain areas throughout 2022. We experienced higher costs for raw materials, particularly resins, as well as for electronic components and freight. These increased costs put pressure on our operating expenses and the costs of our investments. We have been mitigating these inflationary pressures through the following:
•Driving strategic procurement initiatives to leverage alternative sources of raw material and transportation;
•Implementing cost-containment measures, as well as intensifying continuous improvement and restructuring programs in our manufacturing and distribution facilities;
•Continuing strategic product line rationalization programs as part of our simplification strategy; and
•Optimizing our sales through product allocation and customer management.
The COVID-19 pandemic continued to drive volatile global economic conditions during our fiscal year 2022. Utilization rates for most of our products have recovered compared to pre-pandemic levels; however, future resurgences in COVID-19 infections or new strains of the virus may affect the prioritization of non-acute versus acute healthcare utilization, which may temporarily weaken future demand for certain of our products and increase the demand for other of our products. The pandemic has contributed to the inflationary pressures and supply chain disruptions discussed above and these challenges could persist if governments impose lockdowns, quarantine requirements and other restrictions in order to control rates of COVID-19 infections, such as in China.
Additionally, the pandemic has escalated challenges that existed for global healthcare systems prior to the pandemic, including budget constraints and staffing shortages, particularly shortages of nursing staff. Changes in the ways healthcare services are delivered, including the transition of more care from acute to non-acute settings and increased focus on chronic disease management, may place additional financial pressure on hospitals and the broader healthcare system. Healthcare institutions may take actions to mitigate any persistent pressures on their budgets and such actions could impact the future demand for our products and services. Additionally, staffing shortages within healthcare systems may affect the prioritization of healthcare services, which could also impact the demand for certain of our products.
Geopolitical conditions may also impact our operations. Our operations in Russia and Ukraine are not material to our financial results, and as such, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine did not materially impact our results of operations in 2022. However, the continuation of the Russia-Ukraine military conflict and/or an escalation of the conflict beyond its current scope may further weaken the global economy and could result in additional inflationary pressures and supply chain constraints, including the unavailability and cost of energy. Due to the significant uncertainty that exists relative to the duration and overall impact of the macroeconomic factors discussed above, our future operating performance, particularly in the short-term, may be subject to volatility. The impacts of macroeconomic conditions on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows are dependent on certain factors, including those discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Summary of Financial Results
Worldwide revenues in 2022 of $18.870 billion decreased 1.4% from the prior-year period. This decrease reflected the following impacts:

----------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -
 Increase (decrease) in current-period revenues
Volume 6.2 %
Period-over-period decline in revenues related to COVID-19-only testing (7.5) %
Pricing 2.2 %
Foreign currency translation (2.3) %

Decrease in revenues from the prior-year period (1.4) %

29

Table of Contents
While resurgences of COVID-19 infections have continued to occur in various countries around the world, demand for our SARS-CoV-2 diagnostics tests and injection devices used for COVID-19 vaccinations has declined from the peak testing and vaccination levels reached earlier in the pandemic. As such, our fiscal year 2022 revenues in our Life Sciences segment reflected sales related to COVID-19-only diagnostic testing on the BD VeritorTM Plus, BD VeritorTM At-Home and BD MaxTM Systems of $511 million, compared with revenues from such testing products in 2021 of $1.956 billion.
Volume in 2022 was driven by demand for our core products and reflected strong demand across all of our segments’ units, particularly in the Medical segment’s Medication Delivery Solutions and Pharmaceutical Systems units, as well as in the Life Sciences segment’s Integrated Diagnostic Solutions unit.
We continue to invest in research and development, strategic tuck-in acquisitions, geographic expansion, and new product programs to drive further revenue and profit growth. Our ability to sustain our long-term growth will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to expand our core business (including geographical expansion), develop innovative new products, and continue to improve operating efficiency and organizational effectiveness. As further discussed above, current global economic conditions have been relatively volatile due to various macroeconomic factors. We are mitigating the inflationary pressures on our businesses through the various strategies discussed above. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively mitigate such inflationary pressures in future periods, and an inability to offset inflationary pressures, at least in part, through the strategies discussed above could adversely impact our results of operations.
Our financial position remains strong, with cash flows from continuing operating activities totaling $2.471 billion in 2022. At September 30, 2022, we had $1.167 billion in cash and equivalents and short-term investments, including restricted cash. We continued to return value to our shareholders in the form of dividends. During fiscal year 2022, we paid cash dividends of $1.082 billion, including $992 million paid to common shareholders and $90 million paid to preferred shareholders. We also repurchased approximately $500 million of our common stock during fiscal year 2022.
Each reporting period, we face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that fluctuate from the beginning of such period. A stronger U.S. dollar, compared to the prior-year period, resulted in an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact to our revenues during 2022. The flow of foreign currency impacts to our earnings depends on various factors including our inventory turnover, our ability to leverage our global supply chain and the current-period mix of our sales, from both a product and geographic perspective. These factors resulted in a favorable foreign currency impact to earnings during 2022.
We evaluate our results of operations on both a reported and a foreign currency-neutral basis, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results on a foreign currency-neutral basis in addition to reported results helps improve investors’ ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. Foreign currency-neutral ("]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

['s sales related to COVID-19 testing and the recovery of demand for other products with higher margins;
◦A favorable comparison to the prior-year period which was unfavorably impacted by increased levels of manufacturing overhead costs that were recognized in the period because of the COVID-19 pandemic, rather than capitalized within inventory;
◦The unfavorable impacts of foreign currency translation and the recognition of approximately $93 million of excess and obsolete inventory expenses, as noted above.

33

Table of Contents
•Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2022 was higher compared with 2021 primarily due to the current-period decline in revenues. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Life Sciences revenues in 2021 was lower compared with to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as higher shipping costs and selling costs in 2021 associated with COVID-19 testing solutions.
•Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues was higher in 2022 compared with 2021, primarily due to the current-period decline in revenues. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was lower compared with 2020, primarily due to the increase in revenues in 2021, partially offset by additional investments in COVID-19 testing solutions.
Interventional Segment
The following summarizes Interventional revenues by organizational unit:

----------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------------- ----------------- ----- ---------- ----------- - ----------------- ----- ---------- ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- -
 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change TotalChange EstimatedFXImpact FXN Change
Surgery $ 1,400 $ 1,296 $ 1,121 8.0 % (1.3) % 9.3 % 15.7 % 1.3 % 14.4 %
Peripheral Intervention 1,759 1,711 1,511 2.8 % (2.0) % 4.8 % 13.2 % 3.0 % 10.2 %
Urology and Critical Care 1,305 1,232 1,130 5.9 % (1.9) % 7.8 % 9.0 % 1.4 % 7.6 %
Total Interventional revenues $ 4,464 $ 4,239 $ 3,762 5.3 % (1.8) % 7.1 % 12.7 % 2.0 % 10.7 %

The Surgery unit’s revenues in 2022 reflected strong global sales of our advanced repair and reconstruction platforms, as well as a benefit from the unit’s fiscal year 2021 acquisition of Tepha, Inc. Fiscal year 2022 revenues in the Peripheral Intervention unit reflected strong sales of our oncology products and growth attributable to the unit’s fiscal year 2022 acquisition of Venclose, Inc. and the relaunch of our VenovoTM system. The Peripheral Intervention unit’s revenues in 2022 were unfavorably impacted during the second half of the fiscal year by supply constraints and hospital labor shortages. The Urology and Critical Care unit’s revenue growth in 2022 was driven by strong demand for acute urology products.
The Interventional segment']:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

['s COVID-19-only testing sales. We re-invested over $200 million of the profits from these sales into our BD 2025 strategy focus on growth, simplification and empowerment.
•A favorable comparison to 2020 which was unfavorably impacted by increased levels of manufacturing overhead costs that were recognized in the period because of the COVID-19 pandemic, rather than capitalized within inventory; partially offset by
•The $93 million of excess and obsolete inventory expenses related to COVID-19-only testing inventory noted above.

Operating Expenses
Operating expenses in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- ----------------------------------- - ------------- ----- -----
 Increase (decrease) in basis points
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Selling and administrative expense $ 4,709 $ 4,719 $ 4,185
% of revenues 25.0 % 24.7 % 26.0 % 30 (130)

Research and development expense $ 1,256 $ 1,279 $ 1,039
% of revenues 6.7 % 6.7 % 6.5 % — 20

Acquisition-related integration and restructuring expense $ 192 $ 179 $ 299

Other operating expense, net $ 37 $ 203 $ 363

Selling and administrative
Higher selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily reflected higher shipping and selling costs in the current-year period, partially offset by a decrease in our deferred compensation plan liability due to market performance and favorable foreign currency translation. The investment losses on deferred compensation plan assets were recorded to Other (expense) income, net.
Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was lower compared with 2020 due to the recovery of revenues in 2021. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was unfavorably impacted by foreign currency translation and higher shipping costs as a result of expedited shipments relating to COVID-19, as well as by higher selling, travel and other administrative costs compared with 2020, which benefited from cost containment measures enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Research and development
Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues in 2022 primarily reflected the timing of project spending. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenues in 2021 was higher compared with 2020 which reflected our reinvestment of COVID-19 testing-related sales profits into our growth initiatives and additional investments in COVID-19 testing solutions, as further discussed above. Spending in 2022, 2021 and 2020 reflected our continued commitment to invest in new products and platforms.
Acquisitions and other restructurings
Acquisition-related integration and restructuring expense in 2022 included restructuring costs related to simplification and other cost saving initiatives, as well as system integration costs. Restructuring expenses in 2022 included non-cash asset impairment charges of $19 million, as further discussed in Note 15 to the

38

Table of Contents
consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Costs in 2021 and 2020 included restructuring costs related to simplification and other cost saving initiatives, as well as restructuring and integration costs incurred due to our acquisition of C.R. Bard, Inc. in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. For further disclosures regarding the costs relating to restructurings, refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Other operating expense, net
Other operating expense in 2022, 2021 and 2020 included the following items which are further discussed in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---- -- ---- ----- ---- --- ---- - ---
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Charges to record product liability reserves, including related defense costs (See Note 6) $ 21 $ 361 $ 378
Gains on sale-leaseback transactions (See Note 18) — (158) —
Separation-related items 20 — —

Other (4) — (15)
Other operating expense, net $ 37 $ 203 $ 363

Net Interest Expense

--------------------- ---- ----- ---- - ---- ----- - - -----
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Interest expense $ (398) $ (469) $ (528)
Interest income 16 9 7
Net interest expense $ (382) $ (460) $ (521)

Lower interest expense in 2022 and 2021 compared with the prior-year periods reflected lower overall interest rates on debt outstanding during 2022 and 2021, as well as the impact of debt repayments, particularly in 2021. Additional disclosures regarding our financing arrangements and debt instruments are provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Income Taxes
The income tax rates for continuing operations in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------------- ----- - ---- ----- ---- ---- -
 2022 2021 2020
Effective income tax rate for continuing operations 8.3 % 5.2 % 14.9 %

Impact, in basis points, from specified items (500) (620) (70)

The effective income tax rate for continuing operations in 2022 primarily reflected a tax impact impact of discrete tax items, as well as an impact from specified items in 2021 that was more favorable compared with the benefit associated with specified items in 2020.

39

Table of Contents
Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations
Net income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ------ - ------
 2022 2021 2020
Net income from continuing operations (Millions of dollars) $ 1,635 $ 1,604 $ 352
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ 5.38 $ 5.18 $ 0.87

Unfavorable impact-specified items $ 5.97 $ 6.10 $ 7.45
Favorable (unfavorable) impact-foreign currency translation $ 0.14 $ (0.02) $ (0.16)

Financial Instrument Market Risk
We selectively use rated financial institutions. We do not enter into financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Foreign Exchange Risk
BD and its subsidiaries transact business in various foreign currencies in fiscal year 2022 or 2021.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value. For foreign currency derivatives, market risk is determined by calculating the impact on for similar assets and liabilities.
With respect to the foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding at September 30, 2022 and 2021, the impact that changes in the U.S. dollar would have on pre-tax earnings was estimated as follows:

------------------------------- ------------------- ---- ---- - ----
 Increase (decrease)
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021
10% appreciation in U.S. dollar $ (63) $ (66)
10% depreciation in U.S. dollar $ 63 $ 66

These calculations do not reflect the impact of exchange gains or losses on the underlying transactions that would substantially offset the results of the derivative instruments.

Interest Rate Risk
When managing interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed and floating rate instruments. We may enter into interest rate swaps to help maintain this balance and manage debt and interest-bearing investments in tandem, since these items have an offsetting impact on interest rate exposure. For interest rate derivative instruments, fair values are measured based upon the present value of expected future cash flows using market-based observable inputs including credit risk and interest rate yield

40

Table of Contents
curves. Market risk for these instruments is determined by calculating the impact to fair value of an assumed change in interest rates across all maturities.
The impact that changes in interest rates would have on interest rate derivatives outstanding at September 30, 2022 and 2021, as well as the effect that changes in interest rates would have on our earnings or cash flows over a one-year period, based upon our overall interest rate exposure, were estimated as follows:

------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- --------------------------------------------- ---- --- ---- - --- - -
 Increase (decrease) to fair value of interest rate derivatives outstanding Increase (decrease) to earnings or cash flows
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2022 2021
10% increase in interest rates $ (4) $ 7 $ (1) $ —
10% decrease in interest rates $ 4 $ (7) $ 1 $ —

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our strong financial position and cash flow performance have provided us with the capacity to accelerate our innovation pipeline through investments in research and development, as well as through strategic acquisitions. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, our table summarizes our consolidated statement of cash flows in 2022, 2021 and 2020:

----------------------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- ---- ------- - -------
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Net cash provided by (used for) continuing operations
Operating activities $ 2,471 $ 4,126 $ 2,937
Investing activities $ (3,220) $ (1,843) $ (1,190)
Financing activities $ (736) $ (3,306) $ 22

Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities
Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2022 reflected net income, adjusted by a change in operating assets and liabilities that was a net use of cash. This net use of cash primarily reflected higher levels of inventory and prepaid expenses, as well as lower levels of accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2022 additionally reflected a discretionary cash contribution of $134 million to fund our pension obligation.
Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2021 reflected reflected a $16 million discretionary cash contribution to fund our pension obligation.
Cash flows from continuing operating activities in 2020 reflected net income, adjusted by a change in operating offset by higher levels of inventory and trade receivables.
Net Cash Flows from Continuing Investing Activities
Capital expenditures
Our investments in capital expenditures are focused on projects that enhance our cost structure and manufacturing capabilities, as well as support our BD 2025 strategy for growth and simplification. Capital

41

Table of Contents
expenditures of $973 million, $1.194 billion contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Acquisitions
Cash outflows for acquisitions in 2022 included a cash payment of $1.548 billion associated with our acquisition of Parata 
Net Cash Flows from Continuing Financing Activities
Net cash from continuing financing activities in 2022, 2021 and 2020 included the following significant cash flows:

--------------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- ---- ------- - -------
(Millions of dollars) 2022 2021 2020
Cash inflow (outflow)
Change in short term debt $ 230 $ — $ —
Change in credit facility borrowings $ — $ — $ (485)
Proceeds from long-term debt and term loans $ 497 $ 4,869 $ 3,389
Distribution from Embecta Corp. (see Note 2) $ 1,266 $ — $ —
Net transfer of cash to Embecta upon spin-off $ (265) $ — $ —
Payments of debt and term loans $ (805) $ (5,112) $ (4,664)
Proceeds from issuances of equity securities $ — $ — $ 2,917
Share repurchases $ (500) $ (1,750) $ —
Dividends paid $ (1,082) $ (1,048) $ (1,026)

Additional disclosures regarding the equity and debt-related financing activities detailed above are provided in Notes 4 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Debt-Related Activities

Certain measures relating to our total debt were as follows:

----------------------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- ---- ------ ---- - - ------
 2022 2021 2020
Total debt (Millions of dollars) $ 16,065 $ 17,610 $ 17,931

Weighted average cost of total debt 2.8 % 2.4 % 2.8 %
Total debt as a percentage of total capital (a) 37.3 % 41.1 % 41.3 %

(a) Represents shareholders’ equity, net non-current deferred income tax liabilities, and debt.

Additional disclosures regarding our debt instruments are provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

42

Table of Contents
Cash and Short-term Investments
At September 30, 2022, total worldwide cash and equivalents and short-term investments, including restricted rely on ongoing cash flow from U.S. operations, access to capital markets and remittances from foreign subsidiaries of earnings that are not considered to be permanently reinvested.
Financing Facilities
  30, 2022.
The agreement for our revolving credit facility contains the following financial covenants. We were in compliance with these covenants, as applicable, as of September 30, 2022.
•We are required to have a leverage coverage ratio of no more than:
◦4.25-to-1 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter following the closing of the credit facility; or
◦4.75-to-1 for the four full fiscal quarters following the consummation of a material acquisition.

We also have informal lines of credit outside the United States. We may, from time to time, access the commercial paper market as we manage working capital over the normal course of our business activities. We had $230 million commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of September 30, 2022. Also, over the normal course of our business activities, we transfer contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Access to Capital and Credit Ratings
Our corporate credit ratings with the rating agencies Standard & Poor']:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

['s shares over the term of the ASR agreement. Additional disclosures regarding our share repurchase transactions are provided in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(2)The repurchases were made pursuant to the repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on September 24, 2013 for 10 million shares, which has been fully utilized as of September 30, 2022, and a repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in November 2021 for up to an additional 10 million shares of BD common stock, for which there is no expiration date.

Item 6.    (Reserved)

26

Table of Contents

Item 7.     Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes presented presented are calculated from the underlying amounts. References to years throughout this discussion relate to our fiscal years, which end on September 30.
Company Overview
Description of the Company and Business Segments
Becton, Dickinson and Company (“BD”) is a global medical technology company engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products used by healthcare institutions, physicians, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. The Company']:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...