================================================================================
CIK: 0000788784
Company Name: PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC
Filing Date: 2022-02-24
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 05:41:44
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2019 Annual Report.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The following discussion of our liquidity and capital resources is on a consolidated basis, noting the uses and contributions, where material, of our two direct major operating subsidiaries.
Financing Methodology
We expect our capital requirements to be met through internally generated cash flows and external financings, consisting of short-term debt for working capital needs and long-term debt for capital investments.
PSE&G’s sources of external liquidity include a $600 million multi-year revolving credit facility. PSE&G uses internally generated cash flow and its commercial paper program to meet seasonal, intra-month and temporary working capital needs. PSE&G does not engage in any intercompany borrowing or lending arrangements. PSE&G maintains back-up facilities in an amount sufficient to cover the commercial paper and letters of credit outstanding. PSE&G’s dividend payments to/capital contributions from PSEG are consistent with its capital structure objectives which have been established to maintain investment grade credit ratings. PSE&G’s long-term financing plan is designed to replace maturities, fund a portion of its capital program and manage short-term debt balances. Generally, PSE&G uses either secured medium-term notes or first mortgage bonds to raise long-term capital.
PSEG, PSEG Power, Energy Holdings, PSEG LI and Services participate in a corporate money pool, an aggregation of daily cash balances designed to efficiently manage their respective short-term liquidity needs, which are accounted for as intercompany loans. Servco does not participate in the corporate money pool. Servco’s short-term liquidity needs are met through an account funded and owned by LIPA.
PSEG’s available sources of external liquidity may include the issuance of long-term debt securities and the incurrence of additional indebtedness under credit facilities. Our current sources of external liquidity include multi-year revolving credit facilities totaling $1.5 billion. These facilities are available to back-stop PSEG’s commercial paper program, issue letters of credit and for general corporate purposes. PSEG’s credit facilities and the commercial paper program are available to support PSEG’s working capital needs and are also available to make equity contributions or provide liquidity support to its subsidiaries. Additionally, from time to time, PSEG enters into short-term loan agreements designed to enhance its liquidity position.
PSEG Power’s sources of external liquidity include $1.9 billion of multi-year revolving credit facilities. Credit capacity is primarily used to provide collateral in support of PSEG Power’s forward energy sale and forward fuel purchase contracts as the

53

Table of Contents

market prices for energy and fuel fluctuate, and to meet potential collateral postings in the event that PSEG Power is downgraded to below investment grade by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) or Moody’s. PSEG Power’s dividend payments to PSEG are also designed to be consistent with its capital structure objectives which have been established to maintain investment grade credit ratings and provide sufficient financial flexibility.
Operating Cash Flows
We continue to expect our operating cash flows combined with cash on hand and financing activities to be sufficient to fund planned capital expenditures and shareholder dividends.
For the year ended December 31, 2021, our operating cash flow decreased $1,366 million. The net decrease was primarily due to a $780 million reduction related to net cash collateral posting requirements at PSEG Power and a net change at PSE&G, as discussed below. In addition, in 2021, there were higher tax payments at PSEG Power and lower tax refunds at the parent company, partially offset by lower tax payments at Energy Holdings.
Current economic conditions have adversely impacted residential and C&I customer payment patterns. During the moratorium, as previously discussed, PSE&G has experienced a significant decrease in cash inflow and higher Accounts Receivable aging and an associated increase in bad debt expense, which we expect will extend beyond the duration of the coronavirus pandemic.
PSE&G
PSE&G’s operating cash flow decreased $229 million from $1,953 million to $1,724 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to 2020, due primarily to a net increase in regulatory deferrals, increases in electric energy and vendor payments, and higher tax payments in 2021, partially offset by higher earnings.
Short-Term Liquidity
PSEG meets its short-term liquidity requirements, as well as those of PSEG Power, primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and, from time to time, short-term loans. PSE&G maintains its own separate commercial paper program to meet its short-term liquidity requirements. Each commercial paper program is fully back-stopped by its own separate credit facilities.
We continually monitor our liquidity and seek to add capacity as needed to meet our liquidity requirements. Each of our credit facilities is restricted as to availability and use to the specific companies as listed below; however, if necessary, the PSEG facilities can also be used to support our subsidiaries’ liquidity needs.
As part of the generation business, we hedge generation output to mitigate market price volatility. When prices increase, hedged positions could be out-of-the-money, requiring margin postings. In times of significantly rising market prices, those collateral postings could be substantial. During the second half of 2021, PSEG Power experienced a substantial increase in net cash collateral postings related to hedge positions that are out-of-the-money due to an increase in energy market prices, from $343 million at the end of June to $844 million at the end of December. PSEG issued short-term borrowings, including commercial paper, in order to satisfy the increase in collateral postings and to prepare for the PSEG Power debt redemption. In October, PSEG Power borrowed $755 million from its credit facility to support its Senior Notes redemption and additional cash collateral postings, as needed. In November, PSEG issued $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, using a portion of the funds to provide support to PSEG Power for paying off the $755 million loan from the credit facility.
In March 2020, PSEG entered into a $300 million, 364-day term loan agreement which was prepaid in January 2021. In March and May 2021, PSEG entered into two 364-day variable rate term loan agreements for $500 million and $750 million, respectively. In August 2021, PSEG entered into a $1.25 billion, 364-day variable rate term loan agreement. These term loans are not included in the credit facility amounts presented in the following table.
Our total credit facilities and available liquidity as of December 31, 2021 were as follows:

 ---------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------ --- - ----- ----- - -----

 Company/Facility As of December 31, 2021
 TotalFacility Usage AvailableLiquidity
 Millions
 PSEG $ 1,500 $ 1,022 $ 478
 PSE&G 600 18 582
 PSEG Power 2,000 145 1,855
 Total $ 4,100 $ 1,185 $ 2,915

For additional information, see Item 8. Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities.

54

Table of Contents

As of December 31, 2021, our credit facility capacity was in excess of our projected maximum liquidity requirements over our 12 month planning horizon, including access to external financing to meet redemptions. Our maximum liquidity requirements are based on stress scenarios that incorporate changes in commodity prices and the potential impact of PSEG Power losing its investment grade credit rating from S&P or Moody’s, which would represent a two level downgrade from its current Moody’s and S&P ratings. In the event of a deterioration of PSEG Power’s credit rating, certain of PSEG Power’s agreements allow the counterparty to demand further performance assurance. The potential additional collateral that we would be required to post under these agreements if PSEG Power were to lose its investment grade credit rating was approximately $1,151 million and $840 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities for additional discussion of PSEG Power’s agreements.
Long-Term Debt Financing
During the fourth quarter of 2021 PSEG:
•issued $750 million of 0.84% Senior Notes due November 2023,
•issued $750 million of 2.45% Senior Notes due November 2031, and
•retired $300 million of 2.00% Senior Notes at maturity.
In October 2021, PSEG redeemed all remaining outstanding Senior Notes of PSEG Power due to covenants that could trigger a default from the sale of PSEG Power’s fossil generating plants. This included $700 million of 3.85% Senior Notes due to mature in June 2023, $250 million of 4.30% Senior Notes due to mature in November 2023, and $404 million of 8.63% Senior Notes due to mature in April 2031. These Senior Notes were redeemed at a redemption price that included a "make-whole" premium of approximately $294 million plus any interest accrued and unpaid to the redemption date, in each case, calculated in accordance with the indenture governing the Senior Notes. The debt redemption and “make-whole” premium were funded with a short-term loan from PSEG and borrowings under PSEG Power’s credit facility. In addition, approximately $4 million of other non-cash debt extinguishment costs related to the redemption were recorded in October 2021.
During the next twelve months,
•PSEG has $700 million of 2.65% Senior Notes maturing in November 2022.
For additional information, see Item 8. Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities.
Debt Covenants
Our credit agreements contain maximum debt to equity ratios and other restrictive covenants and conditions to borrowing. We are currently in compliance with all of our debt covenants. Continued compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon our future financial position, level of earnings and cash flows, as to which no assurances can be given.
In addition, under its First and Refunding Mortgage (Mortgage), PSE&G may issue new First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds against previous additions and improvements, provided that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculated in accordance with its Mortgage is at least 2 to 1, and/or against retired Mortgage Bonds. As of December 31, 2021, PSE&G’s Mortgage coverage ratio was 4.7 to 1 and the Mortgage would permit up to approximately $8.4 billion aggregate principal amount of new Mortgage Bonds to be issued against additions and improvements to its property.
Default Provisions
Our bank credit agreements and indentures contain various, customary default provisions that could result in the potential acceleration of indebtedness under the defaulting company’s agreement.
In particular, PSEG’s bank credit agreements contain provisions under which certain events, including an acceleration of material indebtedness under PSE&G’s and PSEG Power’s respective financing agreements, a failure by PSE&G or PSEG Power to satisfy certain final judgments and certain bankruptcy events by PSE&G or PSEG Power, would constitute an event of default under the PSEG bank credit agreements. Under the PSEG bank credit agreements, it would also be an event of default if either PSE&G or PSEG Power ceases to be wholly owned by PSEG. The PSE&G and PSEG Power bank credit agreements include similar default provisions; however, such provisions only relate to the respective borrower under such agreement and its subsidiaries and do not contain cross default provisions to each other. The PSE&G and PSEG Power bank credit agreements do not include cross default provisions relating to PSEG. PSEG Power’s bank credit agreements also contain limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary debt and liens.
There are no cross-acceleration provisions in PSEG’s or PSE&G’s indentures. However, PSEG’s existing notes include a cross acceleration provision that may be triggered upon the acceleration of more than $75 million of indebtedness incurred by PSEG. Such provision does not extend to an acceleration of indebtedness by any of PSEG’s subsidiaries.

55

Table of Contents

In March 2021, each of PSEG and PSEG Power and its subsidiaries received waivers from the lenders and the administrative agent under their existing credit agreements permitting them to divest, in one or more transactions, some or all of its and its subsidiaries’ non-nuclear assets without breaching the terms of the agreements.
Ratings Triggers
Our debt indentures and credit agreements do not contain any material “ratings triggers” that would cause an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. However, in the event of a downgrade, any one or more of the affected companies may be subject to increased interest costs on certain bank debt and certain collateral requirements. In the event that we are not able to affirm representations and warranties on credit agreements, lenders would not be required to make loans.
In accordance with BPU requirements under the BGS contracts, PSE&G is required to maintain an investment grade credit rating. If PSE&G were to lose its investment grade rating, it would be required to file a plan to assure continued payment for the BGS requirements of its customers.
Fluctuations in commodity prices or a deterioration of PSEG Power’s credit rating to below investment grade could increase PSEG Power’s required margin postings under various agreements entered into in the normal course of business. PSEG Power believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet the required posting of collateral which would likely result from a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade by S&P or Moody’s at today’s market prices.
Common Stock Dividends

 --------------------------------- ------------------------ ----- ---- ---- ---- - ----

 Years Ended December 31,
 Dividend Payments on Common Stock 2021 2020 2019
 Per Share $ 2.04 $ 1.96 $ 1.88
 in Millions $ 1,031 $ 991 $ 950

On February 15, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a $0.54 per share common stock dividend for the first quarter of 2022. This reflects an indicative annual dividend rate of $2.16 per share. We expect to continue to pay cash dividends on our common stock; however, the declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our businesses, alternate investment opportunities, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that the Board of Directors deems relevant. For additional information related to cash dividends on our common stock, see Item 8. Note 24. Earnings Per Share (EPS) and Dividends.
Credit Ratings
If the rating agencies lower or withdraw our credit ratings, such revisions may adversely affect the market price of our securities and serve to materially increase our cost of capital and limit access to capital. Credit Ratings shown are for securities that we typically issue. Outlooks are shown for the credit ratings at each entity and can be Stable, Negative, or Positive. In May 2021, Moody’s changed PSE&G’s outlook to Negative from Stable. In August 2021, Moody’s changed PSEG and PSEG Power’s outlook to Negative from Stable. In October 2021, Moody’s downgraded PSEG’s senior unsecured notes rating to Baa2 from Baa1, PSE&G’s mortgage bond rating to A1 from Aa3 and commercial paper rating to P2 from P1, and assigned PSEG Power an Issuer Credit Rating of Baa2. Moody’s outlooks of PSEG, PSE&G and PSEG Power were changed to Stable from Negative. With the redemption of PSEG Power’s Senior Notes, S&P maintains an Issuer Credit Rating of BBB. There is no assurance that the ratings will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be revised by the rating agencies, if in their respective judgments, circumstances warrant. Each rating given by an agency should be evaluated independently of the other agencies’ ratings. The ratings should not be construed as an indication to buy, hold or sell any security.

56

Table of Contents

 ---------------- ----------- -------

 Moody’s (A) S&P (B)
 PSEG
 Outlook Stable Stable
 Senior Notes Baa2 BBB
 Commercial Paper P2 A2
 PSE&G
 Outlook Stable Stable
 Mortgage Bonds A1 A
 Commercial Paper P2 A2
 PSEG Power
 Outlook Stable Stable
 Issuer Rating Baa2 BBB

(A)Moody’s ratings range from Aaa (highest) to C (lowest) for long-term securities and P1 (highest) to NP (lowest) for short-term securities.
(B)S&P ratings range from AAA (highest) to D (lowest) for long-term securities and A1 (highest) to D (lowest) for short-term securities.
Other Comprehensive Income
For the year ended December 31, 2021, we had Other Comprehensive Income of $154 million on a consolidated basis. The Other Comprehensive Income was due primarily to an increase of $190 million related to pension and other postretirement benefits, and $3 million of unrealized gains on derivative contracts accounted for as hedges, partially offset by $39 million of net unrealized losses related to Available-for-Sale Debt Securities. See Item 8. Note 23. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax for additional information.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
We expect that all of our capital requirements over the next three years will come from a combination of internally generated funds and external debt financing. Projected capital construction and investment expenditures, excluding nuclear fuel purchases, for the next three years are presented in the following table. These projections include AFUDC for PSE&G and Interest Capitalized During Construction for PSEG’s other subsidiaries. These amounts are subject to change, based on various factors. Amounts shown below for PSE&G include currently approved programs. We intend to continue to invest in infrastructure modernization and will seek to extend these and related programs as appropriate.

 --------------------- ---- ----- -------- ----- ---- ----- --- - -----

 2022 2023 2024
 Millions
 PSE&G:
 Transmission $ 865 $ 800 $ 595
 Electric Distribution 840 1,185 810
 Gas Distribution 940 1090 735
 Clean Energy 275 390 390
 Total PSE&G $ 2,920 $ 3,465 $ 2,530
 Other 140 180 210
 Total PSEG $ 3,060 $ 3,645 $ 2,740

PSE&G
PSE&G’s projections for future capital expenditures include material additions and replacements to its T&D systems to meet expected growth and to manage reliability. As project scope and cost estimates develop, PSE&G will modify its current projections to include these required investments. PSE&G’s projected expenditures for the various items reported above are primarily comprised of the following:
•Transmission—investments focused on reliability improvements and replacement of aging infrastructure.

57

Table of Contents

•Electric and Gas Distribution—investments for new business, reliability improvements, flood mitigation, and modernization and replacement of equipment that has reached the end of its useful life.
•Clean Energy—investments associated with customer energy efficiency programs, infrastructure supporting electric vehicles and grid-connected solar.
In 2021, PSE&G made $2,447 million of capital expenditures, primarily for T&D system reliability. This does not include expenditures for cost of removal, net of salvage, of $121 million, which are included in operating cash flows.
    Other
PSEG’s other projected expenditures are primarily comprised of investments to replace major parts and enhance operational performance at PSEG Power.
In 2021, PSEG’s other capital expenditures were $115 million, excluding $157 million for nuclear fuel, primarily related to various nuclear projects at PSEG Power.
Offshore Wind
The above table does not reflect our expected long-term investments in offshore wind projects. We currently expect to make investments in our 25% equity interest in Orsted’s Ocean Wind project to fund construction and operations planning activities. Over the course of the project, which is expected to achieve full commercial operation in 2025, our investments are expected to be substantial. We have planned funding of approximately $250 million to support continued project development to its final investment decision. At that time, if we choose not to proceed with the project, Orsted has the option to repurchase our 25% equity interest in order to proceed with the project.
Other Material Cash Requirements
The following table reflects our other material cash requirements which include debt maturities and interest payments, operating lease payments and energy related purchase commitments in the respective periods in which they are due. For additional information, see Item 8. Note 16. Debt and Credit Facilities, Note 8. Leases and Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.
The table below does not reflect any anticipated cash payments for pension and OPEB or asset retirement obligations due to uncertain timing of payments. See Item 8. Note 14. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB) and Savings Plans and Note 13. Asset Retirement Obligations (AROs) for additional information.

 ----------------------------------- -------------------- ------ -------------- --- ---------- ----- ---------- ----------- ----- ----- ----- - ------

 TotalAmountCommitted LessThan1 Year 2 - 3Years 4 - 5Years Over5 Years
 Millions
 Long-Term Recourse Debt Maturities
 PSEG $ 4,146 $ 700 $ 1,500 $ 550 $ 1,396
 PSE&G 11,890 — 1,575 1,225 9,090

 Interest on Recourse Debt
 PSEG 444 86 118 75 165
 PSE&G 6,726 407 781 694 4,844

 Operating Leases
 PSE&G 117 15 22 17 63
 Other 152 25 36 31 60

 Energy-Related Purchase Commitments
 PSEG Power 2,274 697 825 494 258
 Total $ 25,749 $ 1,930 $ 4,857 $ 3,086 $ 15,876

58

Table of Contents

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
Under accounting guidance generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), many accounting standards require the use of estimates, variable inputs and assumptions (collectively referred to as estimates) that are subjective in nature. Because of this, differences between the actual measure realized versus the estimate can have a material impact on results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have determined that the following estimates are considered critical to the application of rules that relate to the respective businesses.
Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB)
The market-related value of plan assets held for the qualified pension and OPEB plans is equal to the fair value of these assets as of year-end. The plan assets are comprised of investments in both debt and equity securities which are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Plan assets also include investments in unlisted real estate which is valued via third-party appraisals. We calculate pension and OPEB costs using various economic and demographic assumptions.
Assumptions and Approach Used: Economic assumptions include the discount rate and the long-term rate of return on trust assets. Demographic pension and OPEB assumptions include projections of future mortality rates, pay increases and retirement patterns, as well as projected health care costs for OPEB.

 -------------------------------------- ---- - ---- ---- ---- ---- -

 Assumption 2021 2020 2019
 Pension
 Discount Rate 2.94 % 2.61 % 3.30 %
 Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets 7.70 % 7.70 % 7.80 %
 OPEB
 Discount Rate 2.82 % 2.46 % 3.20 %
 Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets 7.69 % 7.70 % 7.79 %

The discount rate used to calculate pension and OPEB obligations is determined as of December 31 each year, our measurement date. The discount rate is determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality corporate bonds with similar maturities to the plan obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated plan distributions. The discount rate is the single equivalent rate that produces the same result as the full spot rate curve.
Our expected rate of return on plan assets reflects current asset allocations, historical long-term investment performance and an estimate of future long-term returns by asset class, long-term inflation assumptions and a premium for active management.
We utilize a corridor approach that reduces the volatility of reported costs/credits. The corridor requires differences between actuarial assumptions and plan results be deferred and amortized as part of the costs/credits. This occurs only when the accumulated differences exceed 10% of the greater of the benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets as of each year-end. For the Pension Plan, the excess would be amortized over the average remaining expected life of inactive participants, which is approximately nineteen years. For Pension Plan II, the excess would be amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees, which is approximately fourteen years.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used: As part of the business planning process, we have modeled future costs assuming a 7.20% expected rate of return and a 2.94% discount rate for 2022 pension costs/credits and a 2.82% discount rate for 2022 OPEB costs/credits. Based upon these assumptions, we have estimated a net periodic pension credit in 2022 of approximately $115 million, or $172 million, net of amounts capitalized, and a net periodic OPEB credit in 2022 of approximately $124 million, or $127 million, net of amounts capitalized. Actual future pension costs/credits and funding levels will depend on future investment performance, changes in discount rates, market conditions, funding levels relative to our projected benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation and various other factors related to the populations participating in the pension plans. Actual future OPEB costs/credits will depend on future investment performance, changes in discount rates, market conditions, and various other factors.

59

Table of Contents

The following chart reflects the sensitivities associated with a change in certain assumptions. The effects of the assumption changes shown below solely reflect the impact of that specific assumption.

 -------------------------------------- -------- ---------------------------------------------------- --- ------------------------- -- ----------------------------------------------------- -- - -- - --

 % Change Impact on Benefit Obligation as of December 31, 2021 Increase to Costs in 2022 Increase to Costs, net of Amounts Capitalized in 2022
 Assumption Millions
 Pension
 Discount Rate (1)% $ 945 $ 32 $ 21
 Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets (1)% N/A $ 67 $ 67
 OPEB
 Discount Rate (1)% $ 131 $ 15 $ 15
 Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets (1)% N/A $ 6 $ 6

See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information.
Derivative Instruments
The operations of PSEG, PSEG Power and PSE&G are exposed to market risks from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and equity prices that could affect their results of operations and financial condition. Exposure to these risks is managed through normal operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through executing derivative transactions. Derivative instruments are used to create a relationship in which changes to the value of the assets, liabilities or anticipated transactions exposed to market risks are expected to be offset by changes in the value of these derivative instruments.
Current accounting guidance requires us to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at their fair value, except for derivatives that qualify for and are designated as normal purchases and normal sales contracts.
Assumptions and Approach Used: In general, the fair value of our derivative instruments is determined primarily by end of day clearing market prices from an exchange, such as the New York Mercantile Exchange, Intercontinental Exchange and Nodal Exchange, or auction prices. Fair values of other energy contracts may be based on broker quotes.
For a small number of contracts where limited observable inputs or pricing information are available, modeling techniques are employed in determination of their fair value using assumptions reflective of contractual terms, current market rates, forward price curves, discount rates and risk factors, as applicable.
For our wholesale energy business, many of the forward sale, forward purchase, option and other contracts are derivative instruments that hedge commodity price risk, but do not meet the requirements for, or are not designated as, either cash flow or fair value hedge accounting. The changes in value of such derivative contracts are marked to market through earnings as the related commodity prices fluctuate. As a result, our earnings may experience significant fluctuations depending on the volatility of commodity prices.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used: Any significant changes to the fair market values of our derivatives instruments could result in a material change in the value of the assets or liabilities recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and could result in a material change to the unrealized gains or losses recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
For additional information regarding Derivative Financial Instruments, see Item 8. Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 18. Financial Risk Management Activities and Note 19. Fair Value Measurements.
Long-Lived Assets
Management evaluates long-lived assets for impairment and reassesses the reasonableness of their related estimated useful lives whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant assessment. Such events or changes in circumstances may be as a result of significant adverse changes in regulation, business climate, counterparty credit worthiness, market conditions, or a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that an asset or asset group will be sold or retired before the end of its estimated useful life.
Assumptions and Approach Used: In the event certain triggers exist indicating an asset/asset group may not be recoverable, an undiscounted cash flow test is performed to determine if an impairment exists. When the carrying value of a long-lived asset/asset group exceeds the undiscounted estimate of future cash flows associated with the asset/asset group, an impairment may exist to the extent that the fair value of the asset/asset group is less than its carrying amount.

60

Table of Contents

For PSEG, cash flows for long-lived assets and asset groups are determined at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The cash flows from the generation units are evaluated at the ISO regional portfolio level and, effective in August 2021 for PJM assets, do not include PSEG’s fossil generating assets as they are classified as Held for Sale. In certain cases, generation assets are evaluated on an individual basis where those assets are individually contracted on a long-term basis with a third party and operations are independent of other generation assets such as PSEG Power’s Kalaeloa facility. These tests require significant estimates and judgment when developing expected future cash flows. Significant inputs include, but are not limited to, forward power prices (including ZEC payments for the New Jersey nuclear assets), fuel costs, dispatch rates, other operating and capital expenditures, the cost of borrowing and asset sale prices and probabilities associated with any potential sale prior to the end of the estimated useful life or the early retirement of assets. The assumptions used by management incorporate inherent uncertainties that are at times difficult to predict and could result in impairment charges or accelerated depreciation in future periods if actual results materially differ from the estimated assumptions utilized in our forecasts.
In addition, long-lived assets are depreciated under the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives. An asset’s operating useful life is generally based upon operational experience with similar asset types and other non-operational factors. In the ordinary course, management, together with an asset’s co-owners in the case of certain of our jointly-owned assets, makes a number of decisions that impact the operation of our generation assets beyond the current year. These decisions may have a direct impact on the estimated remaining useful lives of our assets and will be influenced by the financial outlook of the assets, including future market conditions such as forward energy and capacity prices, operating and capital investment costs and any state or federal legislation and regulations, among other items.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used: The above cash flow tests, and fair value estimates and estimated remaining useful lives may be impacted by a change in the assumptions noted above and could significantly impact the outcome, triggering additional impairment tests, write-offs or accelerated depreciation. For additional information on the potential impacts on our future financial statements that may be caused by a change in the assumptions noted above, see Item 8. Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions and Impairments.
Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO)
PSE&G, PSEG Power and Services recognize liabilities for the expected cost of retiring long-lived assets for which a legal obligation exists. These AROs are recorded at fair value in the period in which they are incurred and are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. PSE&G, as a rate-regulated entity, recognizes Regulatory Assets or Liabilities as a result of timing differences between the recording of costs and costs recovered through the rate-making process. We accrete the ARO liability to reflect the passage of time with the corresponding expense recorded in O&M Expense.
Assumptions and Approach Used: Because quoted market prices are not available for AROs, we estimate the initial fair value of an ARO by calculating discounted cash flows that are dependent upon various assumptions, including:
•estimation of dates for retirement, which can be dependent on environmental and other legislation,
•amounts and timing of future cash expenditures associated with retirement, settlement or remediation activities,
•discount rates,
•cost escalation rates,
•market risk premium,
•inflation rates, and
•if applicable, past experience with government regulators regarding similar obligations.
We obtain updated nuclear decommissioning cost studies triennially unless new information necessitates more frequent updates. The most recent cost study was done in 2021. When we revise any assumptions used to calculate fair values of existing AROs, we adjust the ARO balance and corresponding long-lived asset which generally impacts the amount of accretion and depreciation expense recognized in future periods.
Nuclear Decommissioning AROs
AROs related to the future decommissioning of PSEG Power’s nuclear facilities comprised more than 75% or $1,201 million of PSEG’s total AROs as of December 31, 2021. PSEG Power determines its AROs for its nuclear units by assigning probability weighting to various discounted cash flow outcomes for each of its nuclear units that incorporate the assumptions above as well as:
•financial feasibility and impacts on potential early shutdown,
•license renewals,

61

Table of Contents

•SAFSTOR alternative, which assumes the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decommissioned in a period within 60 years after operations,
•DECON alternative, which assumes decommissioning activities begin after operations, and
•recovery from the federal government of assumed specific costs incurred for spent nuclear fuel.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used: Changes in the assumptions could result in a material change in the ARO balance sheet obligation and the period over which we accrete to the ultimate liability. As of December 31, 2021, assumed market discount rates were historically low; therefore, changes in assumptions may have a more significant impact on the recorded ARO. Had the following assumptions been applied, our estimates of the approximate impacts on the Nuclear ARO as of December 31, 2021 are as follows:
•A decrease of 1% in the discount rate would result in a $130 million increase in the Nuclear ARO.
•An increase of 1% in the inflation rate would result in a $1,321 million increase in the Nuclear ARO.
•If the federal government were to discontinue reimbursing us for assumed specific spent fuel costs as prescribed under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the Nuclear ARO would increase by $339 million.
•If we would elect or be required to decommission under a DECON alternative at Salem and Hope Creek, the Nuclear ARO would increase by $1,020 million.
•If PSEG Power were to increase its early shutdown probability to 100% and retire Salem 1 and Hope Creek starting in 2025 and Salem 2 in 2026, which is significantly earlier than the end of their current license periods, the Nuclear ARO would increase by $698 million. For additional information, see Item 8. Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions and Impairments.
Accounting for Regulated Businesses
PSE&G prepares its financial statements to comply with GAAP for rate-regulated enterprises, which differs in some respects from accounting for non-regulated businesses. In general, accounting for rate-regulated enterprises should reflect the economic effects of regulation. As a result, a regulated utility is required to defer the recognition of costs (Regulatory Asset) or recognize obligations (Regulatory Liability) if the rates established are designed to recover the costs and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged or collected. This accounting results in the recognition of revenues and expenses in different time periods than that of enterprises that are not regulated.
Assumptions and Approach Used: PSE&G recognizes Regulatory Assets where it is probable that such costs will be recoverable in future rates from customers and Regulatory Liabilities where it is probable that refunds will be made to customers in future billings. The highest degree of probability is an order from the BPU either approving recovery of the deferred costs over a future period or requiring the refund of a liability over a future period.
Virtually all of PSE&G’s Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities are supported by BPU orders. In the absence of an order, PSE&G will consider the following when determining whether to record a Regulatory Asset or Liability:
•past experience regarding similar items with the BPU,
•treatment of a similar item in an order by the BPU for another utility,
•passage of new legislation, and
•recent discussions with the BPU.
All deferred costs are subject to prudence reviews by the BPU. When the recovery of a Regulatory Asset or payment of a Regulatory Liability is no longer probable, PSE&G charges or credits earnings, as appropriate.
Effect if Different Assumptions Used: A change in the above assumptions may result in a material impact on our results of operations or our cash flows. See Item 8. Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities for a description of the amounts and nature of regulatory balance sheet amounts.

62

Table of Contents