================================================================================
CIK: 0001141197
Company Name: PEDEVCO CORP
Filing Date: 2022-03-11
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 07:35:57
================================================================================

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following discussion contains “forward-looking statements” that reflect our future plans, estimates, beliefs and expected performance. We caution you that assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events may, and often do, vary from actual results and the differences can be material. See “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.”

Summary of The Information Contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our MD&A is organized as follows:

 ● Overview. Discussion of our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights affecting us, to provide context for the remainder of our MD&A.
 - -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ● Results of Operations. An analysis of our financial results comparing the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2020.

 ● Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our consolidated balance sheets and cash flows and discussion of our financial condition.

 ● Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Accounting estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results and forecasts.

Overview

We are an oil and gas company focused on the development, acquisition and production of oil and natural gas assets where the latest in modern drilling and completion techniques and technologies have yet to be applied. In particular, we focus on legacy proven properties where there is a long production history, well defined geology and existing infrastructure that can be leveraged when applying modern field management technologies. Our current properties are located in the San Andres formation of the Permian Basin situated in West Texas and eastern New Mexico and in the Denver-Julesberg Basin in Colorado. As of December 31, 2021, we held approximately 32,870 net Permian Basin acres located in Chaves and Roosevelt Counties, New Mexico, through PEDCO and approximately 11,580 net D-J Basin acres located in Weld and Morgan Counties, Colorado, through our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, Red Hawk. As of December 31, 2020, we held interests in 385 gross (381 net) wells in our Permian Basin Asset of which 33 are active producers, 14 are active injectors and two are active salt water disposal wells (“SWDs”), all of which are held by PEDCO and operated by its wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, and interests in 78 gross (21.7 net) wells in our D-J Basin Asset, of which 18 gross (16.2 net) wells are operated by Red Hawk and currently producing, 39 gross (5.5 net) wells are non-operated, and 21 wells have an after-payout interest.

Detailed information about our business plans and operations, including our core D-J Basin and Permian Basin Assets, is contained under “Part 1” — “Item 1. Business” above.

How We Conduct Our Business and Evaluate Our Operations

Our use of capital for acquisitions and development allows us to direct our capital resources to what we believe to be the most attractive opportunities as market conditions evolve. We have historically acquired properties that we believe had significant appreciation potential. We intend to continue to acquire both operated and non-operated properties to the extent we believe they meet our return objectives.

-----------------
 67

Table of Contents

We will use a variety of financial and operational metrics to assess the performance of our oil and natural gas operations, including:

 · production volumes;
 - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 · realized prices on the sale of oil and natural gas, including the effects of our commodity derivative contracts;
 · oil and natural gas production and operating expenses;
 · capital expenditures;
 · general and administrative expenses;
 · net cash provided by operating activities; and
 · net income.

Reserves

Our estimated net proved crude oil and natural gas reserves at December 31, 2021 and 2020 were approximately 14.7 MMBoe and 14.1 MMBoe, respectively. The 0.6 MMBoe increase was primarily due to the addition of proved undeveloped reserves in our D-J Basin Asset as a result of increased activity around our acreage and favorable pricing.

Using the average monthly crude oil price of $66.56 per Bbl and natural gas price of $3.60 per thousand cubic feet (“Mcf”) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, our estimated discounted future net cash flow (“PV-10”) before tax expenses for our proved reserves was approximately $196.6 million, of which approximately $149.8 million are proved undeveloped reserves. Total reserve value at December 31, 2021, represents an increase of approximately $138.5 million or 238% from approximately $58.2 million a year earlier using the same SEC pricing and reserves methodology. The increase is strictly attributable to commodity pricing as the average pricing for 2021, noted above, was significantly higher than the 2020 average pricing of $39.57 per Bbl for crude oil and $1.99 per Mcf for natural gas.

The reserves as of December 31, 2021 were determined in accordance with standard industry practices and SEC regulations by the licensed independent petroleum engineering firm of Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. A large portion of the proved undeveloped crude oil reserves are associated with our Permian Basin Asset. Although these hydrocarbon quantities have been determined in accordance with industry standards, they are prepared using the subjective judgments of the independent engineers, and may actually be more or less.

Oil and Natural Gas Sales Volumes

During the year ended December 31, 2021, our net crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs sales volumes increased to 263,302 Bbls, or 727 Bopd, from 252,807 Bbls, or 691 Bopd, a 5% increase over the previous fiscal year. The production increase is related to optimization of production efficiency on existing wells, both in the Permian Basin and D-J Basin Asset. This was driven by horizontal clean outs and artificial lift conversions in the Permian Basin and an improved chemical program in the DJ Basin. The remaining wells that were shut-in in early 2020 due to the COVID outbreak that were not brought back online prior to the end of 2020 have also now been returned to production. Additional production increases are related to our participation in four new wells from a third party operator in our D-J Basin Asset.

Significant Capital Expenditures

The table below sets out the significant components of capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2021 (in thousands):

Capital Expenditures
----------------------- - -----
Leasehold Acquisitions $ 135
Drilling and Facilities 6,874
Total* $ 7,009

*see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” - “Note 6 - Oil and Gas Properties”.

-----------------
 68

Table of Contents

Market Conditions and Commodity Prices

Our financial results depend on many factors, particularly the price of crude oil and natural gas and our ability to market our production on economically attractive terms. Commodity prices are affected by many factors outside of our control, including changes in market supply and demand, which are impacted by weather conditions, inventory storage levels, basis differentials and other factors. As a result, we cannot accurately predict future commodity prices and, therefore, we cannot determine with any degree of certainty what effect increases or decreases in these prices will have on our production volumes or revenues. In addition to production volumes and commodity prices, finding and developing sufficient amounts of crude oil and natural gas reserves at economical costs are critical to our long-term success. We expect prices to remain volatile for the remainder of the year. For information about the impact of realized commodity prices on our crude oil and natural gas and condensate revenues, refer to “Results of Operations” below.

Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations for each of the two fiscal years in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of PEDEVCO Corp. and notes thereto included herein (see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”).

Net Loss

We reported a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2021 of $1.3 million, or ($0.02) per share, compared to a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $32.7 million or ($0.45) per share. The decrease in net loss of $31.4 million was primarily due to a $19.3 million impairment of our oil and gas properties in the prior period, and, when excluding this significant transaction, our net loss would have still decreased by $12.1 million, primarily due to a $7.8 million increase in revenue coupled with a $1.8 million gain on sale of oil and gas properties, a $3.0 million decrease in total operating expenses (when not including impairment a non-cash item), and a $0.4 million gain from forgiveness of a Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) loan (discussed below), offset by a $0.9 million decrease in other income, when comparing the current period to the prior year period (all of which are discussed in more detail below).

On June 2, 2020, the Company received loan proceeds of $370,000 (the “New PPP Loan”) under the Small Business Association (SBA) PPP. The New PPP Loan was evidenced by a promissory note, dated as of May 28, 2020 (the “Note”), between the Company and Texas Capital Bank, N.A. The Note had a two-year term, bears interest at the rate of 1.00% per annum, and may be prepaid at any time without payment of any premium. Effective May 20, 2021, the Company received notification from Texas Capital Bank, N.A. that the SBA had fully forgiven the Company’s New PPP Loan principal and accrued interest of $370,000 and $4,000, respectively. Therefore, as of December 31, 2021, the Company recognized no debt or accrued interest related to the New PPP Loan on the balance sheet, and a gain on forgiveness of PPP Loan of $374,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021 in connection with such forgiveness.

Net Revenues

The following table sets forth the revenue and production data for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

 2021 2020 Increase(Decrease) %Increase(Decrease)
-------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- - ------- ------------------ - ------------------- - --- --
Sale Volumes:
Crude Oil (Bbls) 228,068 204,983 23,085 11 %
Natural Gas (Mcf) 192,052 191,337 715 * %
NGL (Bbls) 5,225 15,934 (10,709 ) (67 %)
Total (Boe) (1) 265,302 252,807 12,495 5 %

Crude Oil (Bbls per day) 625 560 65 12 %
Natural Gas (Mcf per day) 526 523 3 1 %
NGL (Bbls per day) 14 44 (30 ) (68 %)
Total (Boe per day) (1) 727 691 36 5 %

Average Sale Price:
Crude Oil ($/Bbl) $ 64.76 $ 36.83 $ 27.93 76 %
Natural Gas($/Mcf) 4.70 1.72 2.98 173 %
NGL ($/Bbl) 36.09 11.20 24.89 222 %

Net Operating Revenues (In thousands):
Crude Oil $ 14,769 $ 7,551 $ 7,218 96 %
Natural Gas 902 330 572 173 %
NGL 189 178 11 6 %
Total Revenues $ 15,860 $ 8,059 $ 7,801 97 %

* Less than 1%.
--- ------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Assumes 6 Mcf of natural gas equivalents to 1 barrel of oil.

-----------------
 69

Table of Contents

Total crude oil and natural gas revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021, increased $7.8 million, or 97%, to $15.9 million, compared to $8.1 million for the same period a year ago, due primarily to a favorable price variance of $6.7 million, coupled with a favorable volume variance of $1.1 million. During 2021, despite the natural decline of existing production, a favorable production volume variance was achieved through reduction of downtime and optimization of production efficiency on existing wells, both in the Permian Basin and D-J Basin Asset. This was driven by horizontal clean outs and artificial lift conversions in the Permian Basin and improved chemical program in the D-J Basin coupled with production increases from our participation in four non-operated wells in the D-J Basin in the latter part of 2021.

Net Operating and Other (Income) Expenses

The following table sets forth operating and other expenses for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands):

 2021 2020 Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease)
---------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- - ------ ------------------- - --------------------- - ---- --- -

Direct Lease Operating Expense $ 3,565 $ 3,310 $ 255 8 %
Workovers 881 187 694 371 %
Other* 1,415 957 458 48 %
Loss (gain) on settlement of ARO 82 (19 ) 101 (532 %)
Lease Operating Expenses 5,943 4,435 1,508 34 %

Exploration Expenses - 31 (31 ) (100 %)
Depreciation, Depletion,
Amortization and Accretion 7,380 11,343 (3,963 ) (35 %)
Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties - 19,331 (19,331 ) (100 %)

General and Administrative (Cash) $ 3,757 $ 3,917 $ (160 ) (4 %)
Share-Based Compensation (Non-Cash) 2,452 2,824 (372 ) (13 %)
Total General and Administrative Expense $ 6,209 $ 6,741 $ (532 ) (8 %)

Gain on Sale of Oil and Gas Properties 1,805 - 1,805 100 %

Interest Expense $ 1 $ 2 $ (1 ) (50 %)
Interest Income $ 15 $ 40 $ (25 ) (63 %)
Other Income (Expense) $ 180 $ 1,094 $ (914 ) (84 %)
Gain on forgiveness of PPP loan $ 374 $ - $ 374 100 %

*Includes severance, ad valorem taxes and marketing costs.

-----------------
 70

Table of Contents

Lease Operating Expenses. The increase of $1.5 million was due to the increased activity levels of 2021, brought on by a more favorable commodity pricing environment. Production operations remained online through 2021 (2020 saw a shut-in period of 42 days). Costs were incurred to execute workover and lease operating expense projects that were elected to be put on hold due to the poor price environment of 2020. There was also an increase in service and materials pricing due supply chain limitations and increased industry demand throughout 2021. Discounted rates negotiated during the 2020 downturn have now returned to normal or higher levels due to the overall higher industry activity levels.

Exploration Expense. There was no exploration activity undertaken by the Company in the current year’s period, compared to minimal activity in the prior year’s period.

Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Accretion. Although production increased during the current period, the $4.0 million decrease in depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion was primarily the result of a decrease in our depletable base due to the impairment of our oil and gas properties at the prior year end (discussed below), when compared to the prior period. For the year ended December 31, 2020, due to falling oil and gas prices, we incurred a $19.3 million impairment of our oil and gas properties (discussed below).

Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties. For the year ended December 31, 2021, impairment of oil and gas properties was $-0-, compared to $19.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The impairment in 2020 resulted from a reduction of our reserve value for our oil and gas assets relative to the carrying amount of our oil and gas assets, which was predominately commodity price driven, mainly as a result of the sharp decrease in prices resulting from the decrease in demand associated with COVID-19 and the governmental response thereto in 2020.

General and Administrative Expenses (excluding share-based compensation). The decrease of $0.2 million in general and administrative expenses (excluding share-based compensation) was primarily due to $0.5 million in costs related to a terminated exchange offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common units of a trust in the prior period offset by $0.3 million in accrued bonuses to officers and employees of the Company in the current period, which were subsequently paid in January 2022.

Share-Based Compensation. Share-based compensation, which is included in general and administrative expenses in the Statements of Operations, decreased by $0.4 million primarily due to the forfeiture of certain employee stock-based options and nonvested restricted shares due to certain voluntary employee terminations. Share-based compensation is utilized for the purpose of conserving cash resources for use in field development activities and operations.

Gain on Sale of Oil and Gas Properties. The Company sold rights to 230 net acres and interests in three non-operated wells located in the D-J Basin for net cash proceeds of $1.9 million and recognized a gain on sale of oil and gas properties of $1.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The Company had no sales of oil and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 2020.

Interest Expense. There was minimal interest expense in the current year’s period and the prior year’s period. The accrued interest in both periods related to the Company’s New PPP Loan (see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” — “Note 7 - PPP Loan” for more information), which was forgiven during the current period as discussed below.

Interest Income and Other Expense. Includes interest earned from our interest-bearing cash accounts, and for the 2021 period includes the settlement of accounts payables for $0.1 million and for the 2020 period includes the settlement of accounts payable of $0.9 million and $0.1 million in working interest credits.

-----------------
 71

Table of Contents

Gain on forgiveness of New PPP loan. Includes principal and accrued interest from our New PPP Loan that was fully forgiven during the current period (see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” — “Note 7 - PPP Loan” for more information).

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The primary sources of cash for the Company during the year ended December 31, 2021, were from an underwritten public offering pursuant to which we sold 5,968,500 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $1.50 per share, and generated net proceeds of approximately $8.2 million, a registered direct offering of 4,458,600 shares of common stock at a price of $1.57 per share, pursuant to which we generated net proceeds of $6.5 million, $1.9 million from the sale of oil and gas properties, and sales of crude oil and natural gas. The primary uses of cash were funds used for well completion and operating expenses.

Impact of COVID-19

In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, which causes the infectious disease known as COVID-19, was reported in Wuhan, China. The World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern” on January 30, 2020, and a global pandemic on March 11, 2020. COVID-19 and the governmental responses thereto significantly reduced worldwide economic activity during much of 2020, and continues to threaten the global economy, as variants and mutations of the disease continue to spread, even as vaccines and boosters have become more widely available. While oil and gas prices have increased above pre-pandemic levels, it is not possible at this time for the Company to estimate the full impact that COVID-19 will have on the Company’s business in the future as such estimate would need to be based on whether or not COVID-19 continues to spread and the effectiveness of the containment of the virus, by the governments of countries affected and in which the Company operates. However, the Company’s operations have previously been disrupted, and may be disrupted again in the future due to COVID-19. The COVID-19 outbreak and mitigation measures have also had an adverse impact on global economic conditions, as well as an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company, including on its potential to conduct financings on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. The Company implemented temporary precautionary measures intended to help minimize the risk of the virus to its employees, vendors, and guests, including limiting the number of occupants at the Company’s Houston headquarters and requiring all others to work remotely, and discouraged employee attendance at in-person work-related meetings, which could negatively affect the Company’s business, which measures have recently eased in accordance with federal, state and local guidance, and the vaccination of substantially all of the Company’s office-based employees. The extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak will continue to impact the Company’s results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of the virus, the continued availability and efficacy of vaccines and booster shots, the willingness of individuals to be vaccinated initially, and to obtain booster shots, the effect of virus mutations, and the actions to contain its impact. Any future decrease in the price of oil, or the demand for oil and gas, as a result of COVID-19 or otherwise, will likely have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.

In response to the effects of COVID-19, the Company has adopted policies, procedures, and practices both in its Houston office headquarters and across its field operations to protect its employees, contractors, and guests from COVID-19, including the adoption of a COVID-19 Response Plan, implementation of contractor questionnaires to assess COVID-19 risk and exposure prior to entering any Company facility or worksite, adopting best practices, guidelines and protocols recommended by the Centers for Disease Control (the “CDC”) and the Office of the Texas Governor for the prevention of exposure and spread of COVID-19, and instituting twice-monthly management calls discussing the COVID-19 pandemic and the Company’s ongoing response to the COVID-19 pandemic and effectiveness thereof. Given the Company’s robust online systems and workflow practices and procedures, the Company has not experienced any material challenges or reductions in efficiency or effectiveness of its office-based workforce, while its field personnel continue to attend to their daily field operations uninterrupted, while mindful of social distancing and other preventative measures and safeguards recommended by the CDC, and subject to the CDC’s updated guidance.

We plan to continue to closely monitor the global energy markets and oil and gas pricing, with the remainder of our 2022 development plan being subject to revision, if and as necessary, to react to market conditions in the best interest of its shareholders, while prioritizing its financial strength and liquidity.

-----------------
 72

Table of Contents

Working Capital

                At December 31, 2021, the Company’s total current assets of $28.0 million exceeded its total current liabilities of $5.2 million, resulting in a working capital surplus of $22.8 million, while at December 31, 2020, the Company’s total current assets of $8.8 million exceeded its total current liabilities of $2.0 million, resulting in a working capital surplus of $6.8 million. The $16.0 million increase in our working capital surplus is primarily related to cash received from the sale of common stock in our February and October 2021 offerings (discussed below), the sale of certain oil and gas properties and the forgiveness in full of our New PPP Loan principal and accrued interest.

Financing

On February 5, 2021, the Company closed an underwritten public offering of 5,968,500 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $1.50 per share, which included the full exercise of the underwriter’s over-allotment option, for net proceeds (after deducting the underwriters’ discount equal to 6% of the public offering price and expenses associated with the offering) of approximately $8.2 million.

On October 6, 2021, the Company closed a registered direct offering of 4,458,600 shares of common stock at a price of $1.57 per share for net proceeds (after deducting the placement agent’s fees and other estimated offering expenses associated with the offering) of approximately $6.5 million.

On November 17, 2021, the Company registered up to $3.6 million in securities for sale in an “at the market offering” from time to time (the “ATM Offering”), although no securities have been sold by us to date in the ATM Offering.

Our estimated net capital expenditures for 2022 are estimated at the time of this Annual Report to range between $35 million to $40 million. This estimate includes a range of $33 million to $38 million for drilling and completion costs on our Permian Basin and D-J Basin Assets and approximately $2 million in estimated capital expenditures for ESP purchases, rod pump conversions, recompletions, well cleanouts, leasing, facilities, and other miscellaneous capital expenses. This estimate does not include anything for acquisitions or other projects that may arise but are not currently anticipated. We periodically review our capital expenditures and adjust our capital forecasts and allocations based on liquidity, drilling results, leasehold acquisition opportunities, proposals from third party operators, and commodity prices in the best interest of our shareholders, while prioritizing its financial strength and liquidity (see “Part I” – “Item 1A. Risk Factors”).

We plan to continue to evaluate D-J Basin well proposals as received from third party operators and participate in those we deem most economic and prospective. If new proposals are received that meet our economic thresholds and require material capital expenditures, we have flexibility to move capital from our Permian Asset to our D-J Basin Asset, or vice versa, as our Permian Asset is 100% operated and held by production (“HBP”), allowing for flexibility of timing on development. Our 2022 development program incorporates an increase in both basins relating to service cost inflation resulting in an estimated cost increase of approximately 10 to 15 percent per well, based on costs we have experienced since the third quarter of 2021. Our 2022 development program is based upon our current outlook for the remainder of the year and is subject to revision, if and as necessary, to react to market conditions, product pricing, contractor availability, requisite permitting and capital availability, capital allocation changes between assets, acquisitions, divestitures and other adjustments determined by us in the best interest of our shareholders while prioritizing our financial strength and liquidity.

We expect that we will have sufficient cash available to meet our needs over the foreseeable future, including to fund the remainder of our 2022 development program, discussed above, which cash we anticipate being available from (i) projected cash flow from our operations, (ii) existing cash on hand, (iii) equity infusions or loans (which may be convertible) made available from SK Energy LLC (“SK Energy”), which is 100% owned and controlled by Simon Kukes, our Chief Executive Officer and director, which funding SK Energy is under no obligation to provide, (iv) public or private debt or equity financings, including up to $3.6 million in securities which we may sell in the future in an on-going “at the market offering”, of which no shares have been sold in connection with to date, and (v) funding through credit or loan facilities. In addition, we may seek additional funding through asset sales, farm-out arrangements, and credit facilities to fund potential acquisitions during the remainder of 2022.

-----------------
 73

Table of Contents

Cash Flows (in thousands)

 Year Ended December 31,
--------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ - ---- - ------- -
 2021 2020
Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 5,970 $ 12
Cash flows used in investing activities (2,761 ) (14,770 )
Cash flows provided by financing activities 14,694 370
Net increase (decrease) in cash and restricted cash $ 17,903 $ (14,388 )

Cash provided by operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $6.0 million for the current year’s period, when compared to the prior year’s period, primarily due to a decrease in net loss of $31.2 million when factoring in our $19.3 million impairment in the prior period, coupled with increased revenues in the current period, which are a function of higher commodity prices and production increases. Additional increases are related to a decrease of $4.0 million in depreciation, depletion and amortization and a $1.8 million gain on the sale of oil and gas properties, offset by net decreases to our other components of working capital, which are related to our increased payables and accrued expenses in the current period, when compared to the prior period.

Cash used in investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $12.0 million for the current year’s period, when compared to the prior year’s period, primarily due to an $11.2 million decrease in cash paid for oil and gas development costs, which in the current period related to capital projects in the latter part of 2021, coupled with $1.9 million in proceeds from the sale of oil and gas properties, offset by $1.1 million in additional capital costs incurred.

Cash provided by financing activities. In the current period, the Company generated net cash from financing activities by selling common stock, net of offering costs, of $14.7 million, compared to net cash from financing activities of $0.4 million in the prior period, due to proceeds from obtaining the New PPP Loan financing.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our most significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our financial statements.

Oil and Gas Properties, Successful Efforts Method. The successful efforts method of accounting is used for oil and gas exploration and production activities. Under this method, all costs for development wells, support equipment and facilities, and proved mineral interests in oil and gas properties are capitalized. Geological and geophysical costs are expensed when incurred. Costs of exploratory wells are capitalized as exploration and evaluation assets pending determination of whether the wells find proved oil and gas reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, (i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made). Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.

Exploratory wells in areas not requiring major capital expenditures are evaluated for economic viability within one year of completion of drilling. The related well costs are expensed as dry holes if it is determined that such economic viability is not attained. Otherwise, the related well costs are reclassified to oil and gas properties and subject to impairment review. For exploratory wells that are found to have economically viable reserves in areas where major capital expenditure will be required before production can commence, the related well costs remain capitalized only if additional drilling is under way or firmly planned. Otherwise, the related well costs are expensed as dry holes.

Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred subsequent to the acquisition of an exploration asset in a business combination are accounted for in accordance with the policy outlined above.

-----------------
 74

Table of Contents

Depreciation, depletion and amortization of capitalized oil and gas properties is calculated on a field-by-field basis using the unit of production method. Lease acquisition costs are amortized over the total estimated proved developed and undeveloped reserves and all other capitalized costs are amortized over proved developed reserves. Costs specific to developmental wells for which drilling is in progress or uncompleted are capitalized as wells in progress and not subject to amortization until completion and production commences, at which time amortization on the basis of production will begin.

Revenue Recognition. The Company’s revenue is comprised entirely of revenue from exploration and production activities. The Company’s oil is sold primarily to marketers, gatherers, and refiners. Natural gas is sold primarily to interstate and intrastate natural-gas pipelines, direct end-users, industrial users, local distribution companies, and natural-gas marketers. NGLs are sold primarily to direct end-users, refiners, and marketers. Payment is generally received from the customer in the month following delivery.

Contracts with customers have varying terms, including month-to-month contracts, and contracts with a finite term. The Company recognizes sales revenues for oil, natural gas, and NGLs based on the amount of each product sold to a customer when control transfers to the customer. Generally, control transfers at the time of delivery to the customer at a pipeline interconnect, the tailgate of a processing facility, or as a tanker lifting is completed. Revenue is measured based on the contract price, which may be index-based or fixed, and may include adjustments for market differentials and downstream costs incurred by the customer, including gathering, transportation, and fuel costs.

Revenues are recognized for the sale of the Company’s net share of production volumes. Sales on behalf of other working interest owners and royalty interest owners are not recognized as revenues.

Stock-Based Compensation. Pursuant to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718, Compensation – Stock Compensation, which establishes accounting for equity instruments exchanged for employee service, we utilize the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock option awards at the date of grant, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected life. Changes in these inputs and assumptions can materially affect the measure of estimated fair value of our share-based compensation. These assumptions are subjective and generally require significant analysis and judgment to develop. When estimating fair value, some of the assumptions will be based on, or determined from, external data and other assumptions may be derived from our historical experience with stock-based payment arrangements. The appropriate weight to place on historical experience is a matter of judgment, based on relevant facts and circumstances. We estimate volatility by considering historical stock volatility. We have opted to use the simplified method for estimating expected term, which is equal to the midpoint between the vesting period and the contractual term.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” included herein under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, below, for a discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Refer to Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...
