================================================================================
CIK: 0000014272
Company Name: BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB CO
Filing Date: 2022-02-09
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 01:49:15
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Economic and Market Factors—COVID-19" for information on our human capital management actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Foreign Operations

We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors.

International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation, price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.

Bristol Myers Squibb Website

Our internet website address is www.bms.com. On our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These documents are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol Myers Squibb, including our Principles of Integrity, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors (collectively, the “Codes”), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee, Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the “About Us—Our Company,” “—Leadership” and “Investors” captions and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers will be posted promptly on our website. Information relating to stockholder services, including our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the “Investors—Shareholder Services” caption. In addition, information about our sustainability programs is available on our website under the “About Us—Sustainability” caption. The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for your convenience only. The information contained in or connected to our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this 2021 Form 10-K or filed with the SEC.

We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our definitive proxy statement for our 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (“2022 Proxy Statement”). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2022 Proxy Statement will be available on our website under the “Investors—SEC Filings” caption within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year.

23

-------- -------------
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.

Any of the risks and uncertainties described below could significantly and negatively affect our business operations, financial condition, operating results (including components of our financial results), cash flows, prospects, reputation or credit ratings now and in the future, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline significantly. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also impair our business operations, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking” statements, as discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”

Product, Industry and Operational Risks

Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad continue to negatively affect our revenues and profit margins.
Our products continue to be subject to increasing pressures across the portfolio from pharmaceutical market access and pricing controls and discounting, changes to tax and importation laws and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world that result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and smaller populations for whom payers will reimburse, which negatively impact our revenues and profit margins, including from (i) U.S. federal and state laws and regulations aimed at further regulating the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products (including potential penalties for increasing prices over the rate of inflation, new discounts to fund a redesign of the Medicare Part D benefit, and government negotiations/price controls that may establish a maximum allowed price/reimbursement rate), as well as other changes in laws and regulations for federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, such as modifying the federal Anti-Kickback statute discount safe harbor, accelerating generic drug approval processes and granting additional authority to governmental agencies to manage drug utilization and negotiate drug prices (including the implementation of the 2020 regulation issued by the U.S. federal government authorizing states and private parties to develop and implement programs to import certain prescription drugs from Canada and sell them in the U.S., and the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, which eliminates the Medicaid Prescription Drug Rebate cap starting January 1, 2024), (ii) expanded utilization under the 340B Drug Pricing Program (“340B”); (iii) the competition related to placements on applicable commercial and Medicare Part D formularies; (iv) changes in U.S. income tax laws resulting in an increase to our income tax expense, including through increased taxation of our international operations; (v) changes in trade laws around the world, including drug importation laws; (vi) rules and practices of MCOs and institutional and governmental purchasers taking actions to control costs or shift the cost burden to manufacturers, including actions that could result in the exclusion of a product from, or the unfavorable placement of, a product on a MCO formulary; (vii) changes to U.S. federal pharmaceutical coverage and reimbursement policies and practices (including the potential impacts from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act passed by the Senate in August 2021 that, among other things, requires certain manufacturers of drugs payable under Medicare Part B to provide a rebate to the government for any discarded portion of the drug, the December 21, 2020 final rule issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) on the calculation of average manufacturer price, best price, and Medicaid rebates that addresses copay assistance and product line extensions among other topics, and a previously issued rule addressing the inclusion of sales in U.S. Territories in the calculation of average manufacturer price and best price beginning on January 1, 2023); (viii) the increased scrutiny of drug manufacturers (including any additional review of BMS or Celgene by the House Oversight and Reform Committee); (ix) reimbursement delays; (x) government price erosion mechanisms across Europe and in other countries resulting in deflation for pharmaceutical product pricing; (xi) the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid and private sector beneficiaries; (xii) collection delays or failures to pay in government-funded public hospitals outside the U.S.; (xiii) developments in technology and/or industry practices that could impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers; and (xiv) inhibited market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared to competing products. We expect that these market access constraints, pharmaceutical pricing controls and discounting and other restrictions will become more acute and will continue to negatively affect our future revenues and profit margins.

Additionally, in early 2016, Health Resources and Services Administration (“HRSA”) finalized a regulation regarding the 340B pricing methodology and providing guidelines for when civil monetary penalties may be issued for “knowing and intentional” manufacturer overcharges of 340B covered entities. The effective date of this regulation was January 1, 2019. Following the effective date, manufacturers who are found to have knowingly and intentionally overcharged 340B covered entities could be subject to significant monetary penalties. Over the course of the past few years, Celgene had received inquiries from HRSA regarding the limited distribution networks for Revlimid, Pomalyst, and Thalomid and compliance with the 340B program. As part of our broader integration strategy and alignment of our distribution model (post our acquisition of Celgene Corporation) we recently announced that beginning March 1, 2022, we will recognize up to two designated 340B contract pharmacy locations per 340B hospital that lacks an entity-owned pharmacy. Although we believe that we have complied with, and continue to comply with, all applicable legal requirements, additional legal or legislative changes with respect to the 340B program may cause us to update our approach. Significant changes to our sales or pricing practices with

24

regard to the distribution of drugs under the 340B program, or any material changes in our U.S. payer channel mix, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, if we are required to pay penalties under the applicable regulations, there would be an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.

We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products. Our ability to replace revenue from products that lose patent protection is directly dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner.
As is common in the pharmaceutical industry, BMS expects that sales of its key brand products like Revlimid, Pomalyst, Sprycel and Abraxane will decline after the loss of market exclusivity for such products. Consequently, our future success is highly dependent on our pipeline of new products. There is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs. As a result, there is a high risk that funds we invest in research programs will not generate financial returns. Compounds or products may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or at all. For example, in November 2021, the FDA extended its review of our NDA for mavacamten and announced a new PDUFA action date of April 28, 2022; the FDA had earlier set a PDUFA action date of January 28, 2022.

In addition, product extensions or additional indications may not be approved. Furthermore, products or indications approved under the U.S. FDA’s Accelerated Approval Program may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory studies and such studies may not be successful. For example, in July 2021, we announced that we voluntarily withdrew from the U.S. market the indication for Opdivo (nivolumab) as a single agent for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who were previously treated with sorafenib. Opdivo was granted this indication in 2017 under the U.S. FDA's accelerated approval program. Our action to withdraw the indication was taken in consultation with the U.S. FDA in accordance with its standard procedures for evaluating accelerated approvals that have not met their post-marketing requirements and as part of a broader industry-wide evaluation.

Developing and commercializing new compounds and products involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including (i) efficacy and safety concerns or findings of superior safety or efficacy of competing products; (ii) delayed or denied regulatory approvals, including as a result of difficulties in enrolling patients and completing clinical trials in a timely manner; (iii) delays or challenges with producing products on a commercial scale or excessive costs to manufacture products; (iv) failure to enter into or implement optimal alliances for the development and/or commercialization of new products; (v) changes in regulatory approval processes which may cause delays or denials of new product approvals; (vi) preclusion from commercialization due to intellectual property issues or disputes with third parties; and (vii) failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product.

We are also unable to predict if and when any changes to laws or regulatory policies will occur and how they will affect our business and particularly our pipeline of new products. For example, in the U.S., a partial federal government shutdown halted the work of many federal agencies and their employees from late December 2018 through late January 2019. Any extended government shutdown could result in reductions or delays of U.S. FDA’s activities, including with respect to our ongoing clinical programs, our manufacturing of our products and product candidates and our product approvals.

Regulatory approval delays are especially common when a product is expected to have a REMS program, as required by the U.S. FDA to address significant risk/benefit issues, and we expect that certain of our future key products will be distributed in the U.S. primarily through a REMS program. The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. In addition, if certain acquired pipeline programs are canceled or we believe their commercial prospects have been reduced, we may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs. Finally, losing key molecules and intermediaries or our compound library through a natural or man-made disaster or act of sabotage could negatively impact the product development cycle.

We can provide no assurance when or whether any of our products under development will be approved or launched or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. We must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications for existing products sufficient both to cover our substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short term or long term can have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and prospects.

The public announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors’, products or late-stage compounds may cause significant volatility in our stock price and depending on the data, may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the development of any of our key late-stage product candidates is delayed or discontinued or a clinical study does not

25

meet one or more of its primary endpoints, our stock price could decline significantly and there may be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We are focusing our efforts and resources in disease areas of high unmet need. With our more focused portfolio, investors are placing heightened scrutiny on some of our products or late-stage compounds. We have, however, experienced setbacks and may continue to do so as there are further developments in our clinical studies. For example, in October 2021, we announced that the Phase 2 LATTICE-UC study evaluating deucravacitinib, a first-in-class, oral, selective tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) inhibitor, compared to placebo in moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (UC) did not meet the primary efficacy endpoint of clinical remission at Week 12, nor secondary efficacy endpoints. Additionally, we obtained many late-stage compounds as well as prioritized brand portfolio in hematology and immunology through our acquisition of Celgene that may not meet expectations.

The announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors’, products or late-stage compounds, such as Opdivo, has and will continue to cause significant volatility in our stock price and, depending on the news, may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the announcement of any negative or unexpected data or the discontinuation of development of any of our key late-stage product candidates, any delay in our anticipated timelines for filing for regulatory approval or a significant advancement of a competitor, has and will continue to cause our stock price to decline significantly and may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is no assurance that data from our clinical studies will support filings for regulatory approval, that our key product candidates may prove to be effective or as effective as other competing products, that, even if approved, any such products will become commercially successful for all approved indications, or that the indications of key products approved under the U.S. FDA’s Accelerated Approval Program that continued approval is contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials will be withdrawn.

We could lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.
In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is realized during its market exclusivity period. In the U.S. and in some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions are approved and marketed or when biosimilars are introduced (even if only for a competing product), there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in a product’s revenues.

Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights, if any, varies from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in a country. The failure to obtain or maintain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could result in a rapid loss of sales for any affected products which could be material to us. In some countries, including certain EU member states, basic patent protections for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain specific types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those countries. In addition, the patent environment can be unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, manufacturers of innovative drugs as well as generic drug manufacturers may be able to design their products around our owned or licensed patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic or alternative versions can be approved and marketed.

Generic and biosimilar product manufacturers as well as other groups seeking financial gain are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and we could face earlier-than-expected competition for any products at any time. Patents covering our key products have been, and are likely to continue to be, subject to validity, enforceability and infringement challenges in patent litigations and post-grant review patent office proceedings. Although we are confident in the strength of our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for generic drug companies to successfully challenge our rights and launch their generic versions of our drugs prior to the expiration of our intellectual property rights. In addition, in order to avoid the uncertainty and expense of litigation, among other reasons, we may decide to enter into settlements with generic manufacturers that permit generic market entry prior to the expiration of our intellectual property rights. For example, we expect that some generic drug companies may market generic versions of Revlimid in the major European markets before the expiration of our intellectual property rights. In particular, as a result of patent settlements, we expect generic entry for Revlimid in the United Kingdom beginning on January 18, 2022, and in various other European countries where our Supplemental Protection Certificate is in force beginning on February 18, 2022. Similarly, in the U.S., following patent settlements, certain companies have been granted volume-limited licenses to sell generic lenalidomide in the U.S. commencing in March 2022 or thereafter.

In some cases, manufacturers may seek regulatory approval by submitting their own clinical study data to obtain marketing approval or choose to launch a generic product “at risk” before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. In addition, some countries are allowing manufacturers to manufacture and sell

26

generic products, which negatively impacts the protections afforded the Company. Lower-priced generics or biosimilars for BMS biologic products or competing biologics could negatively impact our volumes and prices.

In addition, both the U.S. Congress and the U.S. FDA have taken steps to promote the development and approval of generic drugs and biosimilar biologics. For example, in December 2019, the U.S. Congress enacted legislation intended to facilitate generic companies’ access to drug samples. Section 610 of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, provides generic and biosimilar developers a private right of action to obtain sufficient quantities of drug samples from the reference product’s manufacturer in order to conduct testing necessary to obtain approval for generic or biosimilar products. This law has the potential to have an adverse impact on our business.

There is no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full time period that appears in the estimates disclosed in this 2021 Form 10-K or that we assume when we provide our financial guidance.

Certain novel approaches to the treatment of diseases, such as chimeric antigen receptor (“CAR”) T cell therapy, may present significant challenges and risks for us.
The development of novel approaches for the treatment of diseases, such as our acquisition in November 2019 of Celgene’s and Juno’s CAR T cell therapy programs, including Breyanzi (liso-cel) and Abecma (ide-cel), presents many new challenges and risks due to the unique nature of genetic modification of patient cells ex vivo using certain viruses to reengineer these cells to ultimately treat diseases, including obtaining regulatory approval from U.S. FDA and other regulatory agencies that have limited experience with the development of cellular therapies involving genetic modification of patient cells; developing and deploying consistent and reliable processes, while limiting contamination, for engineering a patient’s cells ex vivo and infusing genetically modified cells back into the patient; developing processes for the safe administration of cellular therapies, including long-term follow-up for patients receiving cellular therapies; and sourcing additional clinical and, if approved, commercial supplies for the materials used to manufacture and process our potential CAR T products. The use of reengineered cells as a potential cancer treatment is a recent development and may not be broadly accepted by the regulatory, patient or medical communities.

Further, we may not be able to satisfactorily establish the safety and efficacy or the reliability of these therapies through health authority approval, or demonstrate the potential advantages and side effects compared to existing and future therapies. Regulatory requirements governing gene and cell therapy products have changed frequently and may continue to change in the future. Furthermore, certain payment models could impact the financial feasibility of making CAR T cell therapies available in certain markets or by certain treatment sites, thereby limiting patient access. To date, only a few products that involve the genetic modification of patient cells have been approved for commercial sale. Moreover, the safety profiles of cellular therapies may adversely influence public perception and may adversely influence the willingness of subjects to participate in clinical trials, or if approved, of physicians and payers to subscribe to these novel treatment approaches. If we fail to overcome these and other challenges, or if significant adverse events are reported from similar therapies, our development of these novel treatment approaches may be hampered or delayed, which could adversely affect our future anticipated revenues and/or profitability related to these therapeutic programs. In addition, we could also face difficulties in manufacturing CAR T cell therapies, which could adversely affect our future anticipated revenues and/or profitability related to our CAR T cell therapies. See “—We could experience difficulties, delays and disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.”

We face intense competition from other manufacturers and expect to see increasing market penetration of lower-priced generic products.
The future growth of BMS is dependent on the market access, uptake and expansion for marketed brands, new product introductions, new indications, product extensions and co-promotional activities with alliance partners. Competition is keen and as we lose exclusivity for some of our marketed brands lower-priced generic products will increasingly penetrate our markets. Generic challenges to our products can also arise at any time, and our patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for our products. For example, if we receive an adverse litigation decision in a country in the EU where our Eliquis composition of matter patents and related Supplementary Protection Certificates are being challenged (see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies”), we may not be able to prevent generic apixaban products from being introduced in such country prior to our estimated minimum market exclusivity date. In some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the United States or in the EU; political and social pressure has also pushed legislation and other measures that promote the use of generic and biosimilar products. In addition, we face competition from new products entering the market, particularly in IO. New products may have (i) lower prices, (ii) superior efficacy (benefit) or safety (risk) profiles (whether actual or perceived), (iii) technological advantages that may make such products more convenient to use, (iv) better insurance coverage or reimbursement levels, (v) more effective marketing programs and/or other differentiating factors that make it harder for our products to compete. We also face intense competition for external partnerships, joint ventures and acquisition targets that can help develop and bring new products to markets. Business combinations among our competitors and major third-party payers may increase competition

27

for our products. If we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors’ products in the marketplace, this could have a material negative impact on our revenues and earnings.

We could experience difficulties, delays and disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.
Our product supply and related patient access has been, and could in the future be, negatively impacted by difficulties, delays and disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. Some of the difficulties, delays and disruptions include: (i) product seizures or recalls or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) our failure, or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers, to comply with cGMP and other applicable regulations or quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays; (iv) the failure of a supplier, including sole source or single source suppliers, to provide us with the necessary raw materials, supplies or finished goods within a reasonable timeframe and with required quality; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with bulk active or finished product on time; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays for new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products, such as Opdivo; (vii) the failure to meet new and emerging regulations requiring products to be tracked throughout the distribution channels using unique identifiers to verify their authenticity in the supply chain; (viii) other manufacturing or distribution issues, including limits to manufacturing capacity and changes in the types of products produced, such as biologics, physical limitations or other business interruptions; and (ix) disruptions in supply chain continuity, including from market forces (such as the recent stress on global logistics), natural disasters (such as hurricanes), global disease outbreaks (such as COVID-19), acts of war or terrorism or other unforeseeable or unavoidable events that materially impact one or more of our facilities or a critical supplier.

In addition, manufacturing processes for novel cell-based therapies, such as CAR T cell therapies, are still evolving, and our processes may be more complicated or more expensive than the approaches taken by our current and future competitors. Our ability to source raw materials and supplies used to manufacture our CAR T cell therapies and to develop consistent and reliable manufacturing processes and distribution networks with an attractive cost of goods could impact future anticipated revenue and gross profit for our CAR T cell therapies. Furthermore, we may face challenges with sourcing raw materials and supplies for clinical and, if approved, commercial manufacturing. Logistical and shipment delays and other factors not in our control could prevent or delay the delivery of our product candidates and marketed products to patients. Additionally, we are required to maintain a complex chain of identity and custody with respect to patient material as such material enters into and moves through the manufacturing process. As a result, even slight deviations at any point in the production process for our CAR T cell therapies or in material used in our CAR T cell therapies could result in loss of product or regulatory remedial action, which could adversely affect our future anticipated revenues and/or profitability related to our CAR T cell therapies.

We may encounter difficulties integrating ours and Celgene’s businesses and operations and, therefore, may not fully realize the projected benefits from our acquisition of Celgene.
The ultimate success of our acquisition of Celgene and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, including the expected cost savings and avoidance from synergies, innovation opportunities and operational efficiencies, depends on, among other things, how effective we are in integrating the Bristol Myers Squibb and Celgene operations, products and employees.

We are in the process of integrating a large number of manufacturing, operational and administrative systems to achieve consistency throughout the combined company, including with respect to human capital management, portfolio rationalization, finance and accounting systems, sales operations and product distribution, pricing systems and methodologies, cybersecurity systems, compliance programs and internal controls processes. This integration is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. If any difficulties in the integration of our operations were to occur, they could adversely affect our business, including, among other ways, causing a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies may adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, alliance partners, creditors, clinical trial investigators and managers of our clinical trials.

Events outside our control, including changes in regulation and laws as well as economic trends, also could adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from this acquisition.

Regulatory, Intellectual Property, Litigation, Tax and Legal Compliance Risks

Litigation claiming infringement of intellectual property may adversely affect our future revenues and operating earnings.
We and certain of our subsidiaries are, and in the future may be, involved in various legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where third parties seek damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of their

28

patents by our commercial or other activities. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require us to enter into license agreements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject us to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected product or products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.

Adverse outcomes in legal matters could negatively affect our business.
Current or future lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations could preclude or delay the commercialization of our products or could adversely affect our operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, after any possible insurance recoveries where available. Such legal matters include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product safety and liability, consumer protection and commercial cases; (iii) anti-bribery regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or UK Bribery Act, including compliance with ongoing reporting obligations to the government resulting from any settlements; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the alleged failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers or under other agreements relating to our business; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting, or investigations into, violations of securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing, consumer protection, data privacy and other laws and regulations; (viii) environmental, health, safety and sustainability matters, including regulatory actions in response to climate change; and (ix) tax liabilities resulting from assessments from tax authorities.

We are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations.
We are currently subject to a number of government laws and regulations and in the future, could become subject to new government laws and regulations. The costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, or the negative results of non-compliance, could adversely affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our Company. These laws and regulations control and regulate key aspects of our business including but not limited to (i) market access, pricing controls and discounting; (ii) tax liabilities, returns and payments;(iii) imports and other trade restrictions; (iv) intellectual property protection and enforcement; (v) good practice guidelines and regulations; (vi) accounting standards; (vii) data storage and privacy, particularly in the EU and the U.S.; (viii) requirements for reporting payments and other value transfers to healthcare professionals; and (ix) compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices of the U.S. and other countries.

In addition, the U.S. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes, including as a result of new judicial or governmental decisions. For example, the U.S. FDA has indicated it is undertaking an industry-wide review of indications that received accelerated approval and for which the confirmatory studies did not meet their primary endpoints. This is not specific to the Company, but in December 2020, we announced that we withdrew Opdivo (nivolumab) indication for the treatment of patients with SCLC whose disease has progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other line of therapy, which had been granted as an accelerated approval in 2018. This action was taken in consultation with the U.S. FDA in accordance with its standard procedures for evaluating accelerated approvals that have not met their post-marketing requirements and as part of a broader industry-wide evaluation. Also, we anticipate continued U.S. congressional interest in modifying provisions of the Affordable Care Act, particularly given the ruling in Texas v. Azar to invalidate the law as unconstitutional. The revenues that we generate by the health insurance exchanges and Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act are not material, so the impact of the change in law and similar recent administration actions is expected to be limited. Any future replacement, modification or repeal of the Affordable Care Act may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how other future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.

Changes to tax regulations could negatively impact our earnings.
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various other countries globally. Changes in tax laws and regulations can and do occur. Most recently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 reduced the U.S. tax rate to 21% and introduced broad and complex changes resulting in numerous new regulations and interpretations. Significant judgment is required for determining the Company’s tax liabilities, and the Company’s tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. We have faced, and may continue to face, audit challenges on how we apply a tax law or regulation. The ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued, which could have a negative impact on our provision for income taxes. In addition, our future earnings could be negatively impacted by further changes in tax legislation, including changes in tax rates and tax base such as limiting, phasing-out or eliminating deductions or tax credits, increase taxing of certain excess income from intellectual property, revising tax law interpretations in domestic or foreign jurisdictions, changes in rules for earnings repatriations and changes in other tax laws in the U.S. or other countries. Notably, in July and October 2021 OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework agreed on the general rules for redefined jurisdictional taxation rights and a global minimum tax. Further details regarding implementation of these rules are expected and if implemented could have a material impact on our tax provision and results of operations.

29

The failure of third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations could adversely affect our business.
We rely on suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products, manage certain marketing, human resource, finance, IT, data and other business unit and functional services and meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations. Using these third parties poses a number of risks, such as: (i) they may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, for example, in relation to the outsourcing of significant clinical development activities for innovative medicines to some contract research organizations; (ii) they may not produce reliable results; (iii) they may not perform in a timely manner; (iv) they may not maintain confidentiality of our proprietary information; (v) they may incur a significant cyberattack or business disruption; (vi) they may be subject to government orders or mandates that require them to give priority to the government and set aside pre-existing commercial orders; (vii) disputes may arise with respect to ownership of rights to technology developed with our partners; and (viii) disagreements could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of the product or result in litigation or arbitration. Moreover, some third parties are located in markets subject to political and social risks, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters, in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of any critical third party to meet its obligations, including for future royalty and milestone payments; to adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis; and/or to satisfactorily resolve significant disagreements with us or address other factors, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and results. In addition, if these third parties violate, or are alleged to have violated, any laws or regulations, including the local pharmaceutical code, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, UK Bribery Act, the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, and other similar laws and regulations, during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.

Product labeling changes for our marketed products could result in a negative impact on revenues and profit margins.
We or regulatory authorities may need to change the labeling for any pharmaceutical product, including after a product has been marketed for several years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head studies, adverse events reports, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy) or other studies or post-marketing experience that produce important additional information about a product. New information added to a product’s label can affect its risk-benefit profile, leading to potential recalls, withdrawals or declining revenue, as well as product liability claims. Sometimes additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to a medicine or would be at higher risk of adverse reactions and labeling changes based on such studies may limit the patient population. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they could also be sponsored by competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, MCOs, scientists, investigators or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from such studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each product, it can also negatively impact our revenues due to inventory returns and a more limited patient population going forward. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head studies, could affect a product’s formulary listing, which could also adversely affect revenues.

The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or unregistered versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our revenues, earnings, reputation and business.
Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug or a product diverted from its authorized market may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name or diverted products. The prevalence of counterfeit medicines is an industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including the adoption of e-commerce, which increased during the COVID-19 pandemic, greatly enhancing consumers’ ability to obtain prescriptions and other medical treatments via the internet in lieu of traditional brick and mortar pharmacies. The internet exposes patients to greater risk as it is a preferred vehicle for dangerous counterfeit offers and scams because of the anonymity it affords counterfeiters.

Thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are then not properly stored and are later sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business. In addition, diversion of products from their authorized market into other channels may result in reduced revenues and negatively affect our profitability.

Increased use of social media platforms present risks and challenges.
We are increasing our use of social media to communicate Company news and events. The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information from employees, patients, healthcare professionals or other stakeholders. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments

30

about us on any social networking website could damage our reputation, brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public Company-sensitive information by our workforce or others, whether intentional or unintentional, through external media channels could lead to information loss.

Information Technology and Cybersecurity Risks

We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from cybersecurity breaches and data leakage.
We rely extensively on information technology systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools, physical security systems and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted provided and/or used for third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems or infrastructure, by our workforce, others with authorized access to our systems or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction or modification of confidential information stored in our, or our third-party providers’ systems, portable media or storage devices. We could also experience a business interruption, theft of confidential information or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to progress, we have observed an increase in cybersecurity incidents across the industry, predominantly ransomware and social engineering attacks. Further, government entities have also been the subject of cyberattacks. As the cyber-threat landscape evolves, these attacks are growing in frequency, sophistication and intensity, and due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is also a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. Although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the target of cyber-attacks and expect them to continue as cybersecurity threats have been rapidly evolving in sophistication and becoming more prevalent in the industry. We have invested in industry appropriate protections and monitoring practices of our data and IT to reduce these risks and continue to monitor our systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. While we maintain cyber insurance, this insurance may not, however, be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. There can be no assurance that our continuing efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches to our or our third-party providers’ databases or systems that could adversely affect our business.

Strategic, Business Development and Employee Attraction and Retention Risks

Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.
Our strategy is focused on delivering innovative, transformational medicines to patients in a focused set of disease areas. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy, this could negatively impact our future results of operations and market capitalization. In connection with this strategy, we are in the process of integrating Celgene and MyoKardia and our ability to successfully integrate Celgene and MyoKardia could impact our results of operations. If we are not able to achieve the cost savings that we expect, this could negatively impact our operating margin and earnings results. In addition, we may be unable to consistently maintain an adequate pipeline, through internal R&D programs or transactions with third parties, to support future revenue growth. Competition among pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities is intense, and we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices, or successfully execute such transactions. If we are unable to support and grow our marketed products, successfully execute the launches of newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline, manage change from our operating model evolution or manage our costs effectively, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted.

We depend on several key products for most of our revenues, cash flows and earnings.
We derive a majority of our revenue and earnings from several key products. We expect that Revlimid, Eliquis, and Opdivo will represent a significant percentage of our revenue, earnings and cash flows during the next few years. A reduction in revenue from any of these products could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows. Also, if one of our major products were to become subject to issues such as loss of patent protection, significant changes in demand, formulary access changes, material product liability, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, negative publicity, supply disruption from our manufacturing operations or third-party supplier or a significant advancement of competing products, we may incur an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or trading price of our stock.

Third-party royalties represent a significant percentage of our pretax income and operating cash flow.
We have entered into several arrangements which entitle us to potential royalties from third parties for out-licensed intellectual property, commercialization rights and sales-based contingent proceeds related to the divestiture of businesses. In many of these arrangements we have minimal, if any, continuing involvement that contribute to the financial success of those activities. Royalties have continued to represent a significant percentage of our pretax income, including royalties

31

related to the divestiture of our diabetes business (including the transfer of certain future royalty rights pertaining to Amylin, Onglyza* and Farxiga* product sales), out-licensed intellectual property and the Merck patent infringement settlement. Pretax income generated from royalties was approximately $1.9 billion in 2021. Our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods.

Failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions could adversely impact our future results. In addition, any businesses or assets that we acquire in the future may underperform, we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our existing business and the occurrence of a number of unexpected factors could prevent or substantially delay the consummation of an anticipated acquisition, divestiture or merger.
We have acquired, or in-licensed, a number of assets and we expect to continue to support our pipeline with compounds or products obtained through licensing and acquisitions. Future revenues, profits and cash flows of an acquired company’s products, technologies and pipeline candidates may not materialize due to low product uptake, delayed or missed pipeline opportunities, the inability to capture expected synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance, increased competition, safety concerns, regulatory issues, supply chain problems or other factors beyond our control. Substantial difficulties, costs and delays could result from integrating our acquisitions, including for (i) R&D, manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, promotion and information technology activities; (ii) policies, procedures, processes, controls and compliance; and (iii) tax considerations. Where we acquire debt or equity securities as all or part of the consideration for business development activities, such as in connection with a joint venture or acquisition, the value of those securities will fluctuate and may depreciate in value. We may not control the company in which we acquire securities, such as in connection with a collaborative arrangement, and as a result, we will have limited ability to determine its management, operational decisions, internal controls and compliance and other policies, which can result in additional financial and reputational risks.

We may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets, and gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets may affect our earnings. Our divestitures also may result in continued financial exposure to the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, continued supply and services arrangements, or potential litigation, following the transaction. Under these arrangements, nonperformance by us could result in obligations being imposed on us that could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition or reputation. In particular, we divested Otezla* in connection with obtaining regulatory approval for our acquisition of Celgene. If the FTC determines that we violated the consent order that we agreed to in connection with the divestiture, the FTC may seek a civil penalty and our reputation may be adversely affected.

We might also incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our earnings. The value allocated to certain of our assets could be substantially impaired due to a number of factors beyond our control. New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense that may materially and adversely affect our financial results.

If the execution or implementation of acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions is not successful, it could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Moreover, due to the substantial amount of debt that we incurred to finance the cash portion of the Celgene and MyoKardia acquisitions, there can be no assurance of when we will be able to expand our business development capacity. Although we are committed to reducing our debt, pursuing strategic transaction opportunities in future may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, and could result in increased leverage and/or a downgrade of our credit ratings.

Failure to attract and retain highly qualified workforce could affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products.
Our success is largely dependent on our continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management workforce, including people with expertise in clinical R&D, governmental regulation and commercialization, and (ii) in connection with our Celgene acquisition, integrate two unique corporate cultures and maintain employee morale. We are facing increasing competition for a limited pool of qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, government entities, research institutions, companies seeking to enter the healthcare space, and companies in other industries. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain quality talent or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase.

Market, Liquidity and Credit Risks

Our significant additional indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the Celgene and MyoKardia acquisitions could have negative consequences.
Our acquisitions of Celgene and MyoKardia increased the amount of our debt resulting in additional interest expense. This could reduce our financial flexibility to continue capital investments, develop new products and declare future dividends.

32

Adverse changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our profitability.
Global economic and political risks pose significant challenges to a company’s growth and profitability and are difficult to mitigate. We generated approximately 37% of our revenues outside of the U.S. in 2021. As such, our revenues, earnings and cash flow are exposed to risk from a strengthening U.S. dollar and inflation in the U.S. For instance, if inflation or other factors were to significantly increase our business costs, it could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We also have exposure to customer credit risks in Europe, South America and other markets including from government-guaranteed hospital receivables in markets where payments are not received on time. We have significant operations in Europe, including for manufacturing and distribution. The results of our operations could be negatively impacted by any member country exiting the eurozone monetary union or EU. In particular, the exit of the UK from the EU, which occurred on January 31, 2020, has created uncertainties affecting our business operations in the UK and the EU and may have an impact on our research, commercial and general business operations in the UK and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products and may require changes to our legal entity structure in the UK and the EU. In addition, there is currently uncertainty around the phase out of LIBOR. In July 2017, the United Kingdom regulator that regulates LIBOR announced its intention to phase out LIBOR rates by the end of 2021. However, in March 2021, the ICE Benchmark Administration, in its capacity as administrator of USD-LIBOR, announced that it intends to extend publication of USD LIBOR (other than one-week and two-month tenors) until June 30, 2023. Notwithstanding this extension, a joint statement by key regulatory authorities called on banks to cease entering into new contracts that use USD-LIBOR as a reference rate as soon as practicable, but no later than December 31, 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, has proposed replacing USD-LIBOR with a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements - the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"). At this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR, and it is impossible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR and whether one-month, three-month, six‑month, and twelve-month USD LIBOR rates will continue to be published until June 2023. We have issued variable rate debt based on LIBOR and have undertook interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. We have also entered into certain agreements and have amended certain other agreements to rely on SOFR as an alternative interest rate method to LIBOR and we cannot predict what the impact of these agreements and amendments and SOFR could have on us. Although SOFR appears to be the preferred replacement rate for USD LIBOR at this time, if the financial market coalesces around an alternative benchmark rate method to LIBOR that is different than SOFR, we may need to renegotiate these agreements and may be negatively impacted by the renegotiated terms, which may adversely affect our interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs that we cannot predict. In addition, the phase out or replacement of LIBOR could cause disruptions in the credit markets that leads to a downgrade of our current credit rating, which could increase our future borrowing costs and our cost of capital, impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us and adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources.

Finally, our business and operations may be adversely affected by political volatility, conflicts or crises in individual countries or regions, including terrorist activities or war.

There can be no guarantee that we will pay dividends or repurchase stock.
The declaration, amount and timing of any dividends fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors. The Board’s decision will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. A reduction or elimination of our dividend payments or dividend program could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, we could, at any time, decide not to buy back any more shares in the market, which could also adversely affect our stock price.

Our amended bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain lawsuits between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that it finds favorable for such lawsuits and make it more costly for our stockholders to bring such lawsuits, which may have the effect of discouraging such lawsuits.
Our amended bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, creditors or other constituents, (iii) action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended bylaws or (iv) action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine; provided, however, that, in the event that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware lacks jurisdiction over any such action or proceeding, the sole and exclusive forum for such action or proceeding will be another state or federal court of the State of Delaware. Our bylaws also provide that any person or

33

entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and consented to this forum selection provision.

The Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, another state or federal court of the State of Delaware) will have the fullest authority allowed by law to issue an anti-suit injunction to enforce this forum selection clause and to preclude suit in any other forum. However, this forum selection provision is not intended to apply to any actions brought under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), as amended, or the Exchange Act. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder and Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, the forum selection provision in our amended bylaws will not relieve us of our duties to comply with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with these laws, rules and regulations.

Nevertheless, this forum selection provision in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers and other employees, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. In addition, stockholders who do bring a claim in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Delaware. While we believe the risk of a court declining to enforce the forum selection provision contained in our amended bylaws is low, if a court were to find the provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.

General Risks

The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting our business and could have a material adverse effect on us.
The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting how we operate our business. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities have taken, and continue to take, a number of actions to limit the spread of COVID-19 and address related disruptions in the U.S. and global economy. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have seen changes in demand for some of our products driven by lower patient starts and visits. However, while the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our revenues, our results of operations have thus far not been significantly impacted. If the negative impact from the COVID-19 pandemic extends beyond our assumed timelines, our results may be worse than expected. The full extent of the impact will depend on future developments such as the ultimate duration and the severity of the spread of COVID-19 and any variant strains in the U.S. and globally, the effectiveness and outreach of vaccines, the effectiveness of federal, state, local and international governments’ mitigation actions, the pandemic’s impact on the U.S. and global economies, changes in the behavior of patients and medical professionals, the timing for resumption to our normal operations, as well as developments affecting healthcare and the delivery of medicines to patients.

While we have not experienced any significant manufacturing or supply issues due to COVID-19, it is possible that we could experience these issues in the future, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. For instance, we may experience scarcity of certain raw materials and components as a result of the influx of COVID-19 vaccine orders receiving priority treatment from vendors. Similarly, highly contagious variants of COVID-19 could create material staffing shortages at our manufacturing sites which could disrupt the supply of our products. It is also possible that we may experience supply chain interruptions as a result of quarantines, shelter-in-place and other governmental orders and policies, travel restrictions, airline and cargo capacity and route reductions. In addition, if a natural disaster or other potentially disruptive event occurs on top of the current pandemic, it could deplete our safety stock levels and we could experience a manufacturing, supply or distribution issue.

We have restarted in-person interactions by our customer-facing (field) personnel in health care settings in the U.S. and a number of other markets. If we determine that it is no longer safe to engage in these in-person interactions, we will likely return to a remote model of engagement. This transition could have a negative impact on our business. It is also possible that there could be a longer-lasting shift in interactions between field personnel and health care professionals that we have not anticipated, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.

In addition, while the impact of COVID-19 on enrollment in our clinical trials stabilized in 2021, we can continue to experience delays in the initiation and enrollment of patients in our clinical trials due to new variants of COVID-19. We may not be able to fully mitigate these delays, which could negatively impact the timing of our pipeline development programs and expected future revenues and/or cash flows. In addition, we could experience additional delays or difficulties enrolling

34

patients in clinical trials and/or delays or difficulties with our ongoing, fully enrolled clinical trials, which could further negatively impact the timing of our pipeline development programs and expected future revenues and/or cash flows. A prolonged clinical trial delay could potentially have a significant negative effect on our business, particularly if new competitive products enter the market or clinical trial results for our competitors’ products affect the value proposition for our product. Any such delays or difficulties in clinical development could also potentially lead to a material impairment of our intangible assets, including the approximately $42.5 billion of intangible assets as of December 31, 2021. In addition, although research and early development activities performed in laboratories have resumed, they were suspended for a period of time, which negatively impacted the advancement of early pipeline assets. We have plans to mitigate this impact, but if we are not be able to fully mitigate it, the breadth of our future pipeline opportunities could be adversely affected.

We cannot predict or reasonably estimate the impact of any potential long-term changes to the healthcare industry from COVID-19. For example, there is potential for a shift in the U.S. payer channel mix due to changes in patient coverage from the current economic crisis, but we are not able to reliably estimate what the impact would be on our results of operations given the highly variable and uncertain situation. It is also possible that changes in the healthcare system could impose additional burdens on clinical trials, which could increase the costs of sponsoring clinical trials or lead to additional delays or difficulties with completing clinical trials. We may also experience additional pricing pressures and/or increased governmental regulation.

We could face additional risks from the impact of COVID-19 on our suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties that we rely on to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products, manage certain marketing, selling, human resource, finance, IT and other business unit and functional services. For example, if any of our third-party providers suffer from limited solvency because of the pandemic, it could negatively impact our operating model and our business. It is not possible to estimate the potential impact at this time.

The COVID-19 pandemic also increased the volatility of the financial markets, foreign currency exchanges and interest rates. In addition, we are facing and could continue to face potential other negative consequences stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to increased cyber threats to us and our partners such as phishing, social engineering and malware attacks, delays in planned integration milestones and ability to collect our receivables. It is possible that COVID-19 could exacerbate any of the other risks described in this 2021 Form 10-K as well.

At this time, we cannot predict the full extent of the negative impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.

35

-------- --------------------------
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

None.

------- -----------
Item 2. PROPERTIES.

Our principal executive offices are located at 430 East 29th Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY. We own or lease manufacturing, R&D, administration, storage and distribution facilities at approximately 195 sites worldwide. We believe our manufacturing properties, in combination with our third-party manufacturers, are in good operating condition and provide adequate production capacity for our current and projected operations. We also believe that none of our properties is subject to any material encumbrance, easement or other restriction that would detract materially from its value or impair its use in the operation of the business. For further information about our manufacturing properties, refer to “Item 1. Business—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance.”

Our significant manufacturing and R&D locations by geographic area were as follows at December 31, 2021:

------------- ------------- --- --
 Manufacturing R&D
United States 6 10
Europe 2 1

Total 8 11

------- ------------------------
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.

Not applicable.

36

PART IA

Information about our Executive Officers

Listed below is information on our executive officers as of February 9, 2022. Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term, which continues until the first Board meeting following the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and thereafter, are elected for a one-year term or until their successors have been elected. Executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Name and Current Position Age Employment History for the Past 5 Years
Giovanni Caforio, M.D.Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 57 2015 to 2017 – Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company2017 to present – Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Boerner, Ph.D.Executive Vice President, Chief Commercialization OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 51 2015 to 2017 – President and Head of U.S. Commercial2017 to 2018 – President and Head, International Markets2018 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Commercialization Officer
David V. ElkinsExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 53 2014 to 2017 – Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Consumer and Consumer Medicines, Johnson & Johnson2017 to 2018 – Worldwide Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Consumer Products, Medical Devices and Corporate Functions, Johnson & Johnson2018 to 2019 – Chief Financial Officer, Celgene2019 to present – Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Samit Hirawat, M.D.Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Drug DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 53 2017 to 2019 – Executive Vice President, Head of Oncology Development, Novartis2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Drug Development
Sandra Leung Executive Vice President, General CounselMember of the Leadership Team 61 2015 to present – Executive Vice President, General Counsel
Greg MeyersExecutive Vice President, Chief Digital and Technology OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 49 2014 to 2018 – Corporate Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Motorola Solutions2018 to 2022 – Group Chief Information and Digital Officer, Syngenta Group2022 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Digital and Technology Officer
Elizabeth A. MilyExecutive Vice President, Strategy & Business DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 54 2010 to 2020 – Managing Director, Barclays Investment Bank2020 to present – Executive Vice President, Strategy & Business Development
Ann M. PowellExecutive Vice President, Chief Human Resources OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 56 2016 to 2019 – Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Karen SantiagoSenior Vice President and Corporate Controller 51 2016 to 2018 – Lead, Enabling Functions and Finance Transformation2018 to present – Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller
Louis S. SchmuklerExecutive Vice President and President, Global Product Development and SupplyMember of the Leadership Team 66 2011 to 2017 – President, Global Product Development and Supply2017 to 2019 – Senior Vice President and President, Global Product Development and Supply2019 to present – Executive Vice President and President, Global Product Development and Supply
Rupert Vessey, M.A., B.M., B.Ch., F.R.C.P., D.Phil.Executive Vice President, Research and Early DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 57 2015 to 2019 – President of Research and Early Development, Celgene2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Research and Early Development
Paul von AutenriedExecutive Vice President, Chief Information OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 60 2016 to 2019 – Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer
Michelle WeeseExecutive Vice President, Corporate AffairsMember of the Leadership Team 51 2009 to 2018 – Founder/Chief Executive Officer, Strat-igence, Inc.2018 to 2021 – General Secretary, North America, Danone2021 to present – Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs

37

PART II

------- ------------------
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” and is incorporated by reference herein.

------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Bristol Myers Squibb common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol: BMY).

Holders of Common Stock

The number of record holders of our common stock at January 31, 2022 was 34,417.

The number of record holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered on our books at such date based on information provided by EQ Shareowner Services, our transfer agent, and does not include holders of shares in “street names” or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by depository trust companies.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Information required by this item will be contained in our 2022 Proxy Statement under the heading “Items to be Voted Upon—Item 2—Advisory Vote to Approve the Compensation of our Named Executive Officers-Equity Compensation Plan Information,” which information is incorporated herein by reference.

38

Performance Graph

The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholders’ returns of our common shares with the cumulative total stockholders’ returns of the companies listed in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ("S&P 500 Index") and a composite peer group of major pharmaceutical companies comprised of AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche and Sanofi. The graph assumes $100 investment on December 31, 2016 in each of our common shares, the S&P 500 Index and the stock of our peer group companies, including reinvestment of dividends, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

-------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ------ ------ ------ - ------ - ------
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Bristol Myers Squibb $ 100.00 $ 107.71 $ 93.82 $ 119.84 $ 120.33 $ 123.80
S&P 500 100.00 121.83 116.49 153.17 181.35 233.41
Peer Group 100.00 115.24 126.80 148.69 151.70 186.71

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table summarizes the surrenders of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2021:

------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ------ - -----
Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(a) Average Price Paid per Share(a) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(b) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs(b)
Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data
October 1 to 31, 2021 820,228 $ 58.48 — $ 2,919
November 1 to 30, 2021 27,082,219 58.35 26,993,376 1,344
December 1 to 31, 2021 20,925,321 56.77 20,706,814 15,169
Three months ended December 31, 2021 48,827,768 47,700,190

(a)    Includes shares repurchased as part of publicly announced programs and shares of common stock surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of awards under our long-term incentive program.
(b)    In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of our common stock and in June 2012 increased its authorization for the repurchase of our common stock by an additional $3.0 billion. In October 2016, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of an additional $3.0 billion of our common stock and in November 2019 further increased its authorization for the repurchase of our common stock by approximately $7.0 billion. In February 2020, the Board of Directors approved an increase of $5.0 billion to the total outstanding share repurchase authorization. In January and December 2021, the Board of Directors approved an increase of $2.0 billion and $15.0 billion, respectively, to the share repurchase authorization. The remaining share repurchase capacity under the program was approximately $15.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. Refer to “Item 1. Financial Statements-Note 16. Equity” for information on the share repurchase program.

------- ----------
Item 6. [RESERVED]

39

------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this 2021 Form 10-K to enhance the understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The comparison of 2020 to 2019 results has been omitted from this Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020—“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” filed on February 10, 2021.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. Refer to the Summary of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2021 Form 10-K for terms used throughout the document.

In 2021, we obtained more than 20 approvals for new medicines and additional indications and formulations of currently marketed medicines in major markets (the U.S., EU and Japan), including regulatory approvals of Breyanzi and Abecma in hematology malignancies, the first approvals of our cell therapy portfolio. In support of our continued investment in our cell therapy portfolio, we are expanding our manufacturing capabilities through the construction of new state-of-the-art cell therapy manufacturing facilities in Devens, Massachusetts, and Leiden, Netherlands. We continue to see momentum in our immuno-oncology portfolio with additional approvals for both Opdivo and Opdivo+Yervoy in various indications (e.g. adjuvant bladder, gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, esophageal adenocarcinoma and RCC) and the return to growth of Opdivo. Our portfolio in immunology has expanded with the FDA approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC and we have an important opportunity for deucravacitinib, our TYK2 inhibitor, for the treatment of psoriasis and other immune-mediated diseases. We bolstered our leading cardiovascular franchise by adding mavacamten with the acquisition of MyoKardia in 2020. In 2021, the FDA accepted the NDA for mavacamten for patients with symptomatic obstructive HCM and assigned a revised PDUFA goal date of April 28, 2022.

In 2021, our revenues increased 9%, due to Eliquis, Opdivo/Yervoy, our recently launched new products, Revlimid and foreign exchange. The GAAP EPS of $3.12 in 2021 as compared to the GAAP loss per share of $3.99 in 2020 was primarily due to (i) IPRD and other charges resulting from the MyoKardia asset acquisition in 2020, (ii) other specified items including lower unwinding of inventory purchase price adjustments and other income related to equity investments and contingent value rights and (iii) internal transfers of certain intangible and other assets to streamline our legal entity structure subsequent to the Celgene acquisition resulting in a tax benefit in 2021 and a tax charge in 2020. After adjusting for specified items, non-GAAP EPS increased $1.07 due to higher revenues, partially offset by higher expenses to support product launches and the overall portfolio.

Highlights

The following table summarizes our financial information:

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ ---- ---- - ------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2021 2020
Total Revenues $ 46,385 $ 42,518

Diluted Earnings/(Loss) Per Share
GAAP $ 3.12 $ (3.99)
Non-GAAP 7.51 6.44

Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude specified items that represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a detailed listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures refer to “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”

40

Economic and Market Factors

COVID-19

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities have taken, and continue to take, a number of actions to limit the spread of COVID-19 and address related disruptions in the U.S. and global economy. While we continue to experience impacts on revenues from COVID-19 primarily due to lower new patient starts and patient visits, the pandemic has not significantly impacted our results of operations. The situation remains dynamic and it is difficult to reasonably assess or predict the full extent of the negative impact that the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The future financial and operational impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on BMS will depend on future developments such as the ultimate duration and the severity of the spread of COVID-19 and any variant strains in the U.S. and globally, the effectiveness and outreach of vaccines, the effectiveness of federal, state, local and international government's mitigation actions, the pandemic's impact on the U.S. and global economies, changes in the behavior of patients and medical professionals and the timing for resumption to our normal operations, as well as developments affecting healthcare and the delivery of medicines to patients. See “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—General Risks—The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting our business and could have a material adverse effect on us.”

As the COVID-19 pandemic affected global healthcare systems as well as major economic and financial markets, we adopted several procedures focused on ensuring the continued supply of our medicines to our patients and protecting the health, wellbeing and safety of our workforce:

Workplace and Community

•We are maintaining our steadfast commitment to protecting our workforce, communities and patients, and ensuring the continued supply of life-saving medicines.
•As a science-based company, we have a social responsibility to help reduce the spread of the virus. Vaccinations are required for generally all of our employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico subject to any local regulations which limit or restrict vaccine mandates, and we are encouraged that as of January 5, 2022 approximately 99% of our employees in these regions are vaccinated against COVID-19. Requests for medical or religious accommodations are also considered on an individual basis. Although local regulations and conditions in other ex-U.S. jurisdictions may limit or restrict vaccine mandates, we are committed to implementing similar requirements in other markets wherever possible.
•As we return workers to the office, we will continue to assess the need to require weekly asymptomatic testing, mask wearing, and physical distancing of all colleagues onsite at our facilities in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. We also keep our workforce safe by conducting regular deep cleaning of our sites.
•Our manufacturing sites have remained open throughout the pandemic supported by on site personnel. We have taken a thoughtful and phased approach to bringing the rest of our workforce back to our 195 plus sites around the world, guided by the following principles:
◦Serving the needs of our patients and customers
◦Prioritizing health and safety
◦Following medical advice and government direction
◦Leading with compassion and flexibility
◦Modeling key learnings
•No single approach fits for every site or market – our timelines and circumstances have varied across the globe. We are monitoring local conditions and government direction closely and adjusting our plans as appropriate.

Supply of Our Medicines and Support to Patients, Physicians and Advocacy Groups

•An important element of keeping our promise to patients, their families and our healthcare providers is to ensure that our supply chain is robust and carefully managed. Our clinical and commercial supply chain teams have proactively used mitigation plans to ensure our products reach our markets, clinical sites and patients over the past months. Thanks to these efforts, we have not seen any significant disruptions in our clinical or commercial supply chain due to the pandemic.
•We recognize this remains a challenging time for everyone, and we know patients may be facing additional hardships. Our existing patient support programs are available to help eligible patients in the U.S. who have been prescribed a Bristol Myers Squibb medicine and have lost employment and health insurance due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Under these programs, eligible patients are provided certain Bristol Myers Squibb medicines for free.
•All of our U.S. and Puerto Rico personnel are currently required to be vaccinated to interact with customers, vendors and people at our clinical trial sites. We are also continuing to employ remote interactions as appropriate to ensure continued support for healthcare professionals, patient care, and access to our medicines across our global markets.

41

Our Clinical Trials and Research

•We are working with health authorities and investigators to protect our trial participants and personnel at BMS and our clinical trial sites, while ensuring regulatory compliance and the integrity of our science.
•We have provided clinical trial investigators with overarching principles and guidance regarding the conduct of BMS clinical trials worldwide in light of COVID-19, and are taking into account guidance from health authorities, where applicable.

Governmental Actions

Our products continue to be subject to increasing pressures across the portfolio from pharmaceutical market access rates and smaller populations for whom payers will reimburse, which can negatively impact our results of operations (including intangible asset impairment charges), operating cash flow, liquidity and financial flexibility. For example, Congress is currently considering a number of different proposals that would potentially: (i) allow the government to set or negotiate prices for prescription drugs, including benchmarking those prices to prices paid in other countries, (ii) penalize manufacturers for price increases beyond inflationary measures, (iii) redesign the Part D benefit with new out of pocket limits for patients and new mandated discounts for manufacturers, and (iv) change U.S. income tax laws resulting in an increase to our income tax expense, including through increased taxation of our international operations. The outcome of these Congressional actions remains highly uncertain. In addition, the OECD recently reached agreement on a global minimum tax pursuant to which countries are expected to implement changes to their tax laws and updates to international tax treaties. See risk factor on the Company’s risk factors on these items included under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—Product, Industry and Operational Risks—Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad continue to negatively affect our revenues and profit margins” and “—Changes to tax regulations could negatively impact our earnings.”

42

Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2021:

------- ---- --------
Product Date Approval

------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orencia December 2021 FDA approval of Orencia for the prevention, of aGvHD, in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor and methotrexate, in adults and pediatric patients two years of age and older undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from a matched or one allele-mismatched unrelated donor.

------ ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo December 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for the treatment of cancer of unknown primary.

------ ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo November 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for the first-line treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer in combination with chemotherapy.

------ ------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo November 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of esophageal cancer.

------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia November 2021 EC approval for Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC.

------ ------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo October 2021 EC approval of Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with HER2-negative advanced or metastatic gastric, gastroesophageal junction, or esophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 with a combined positive score ≥ 5.

------ -------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo September 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for first line gastric cancer and adjuvant esophageal cancer.

------ ----------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo August 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for the treatment of pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma.

------ ----------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo August 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of the combination therapy Opdivo and CABOMETYX* for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic RCC.

------ ----------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo August 2021 FDA approval of Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of patients with urothelial carcinoma who are at high risk of recurrence after undergoing radical resection, regardless of prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy, nodal involvement or PD-L1 status.

------ ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Abecma August 2021 EC approval for Abecma for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody and have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy.

------ --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo July 2021 EC approval of Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer who have residual pathologic disease following prior neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

------------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy June 2021 EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy for the treatment of adult patients with mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high metastatic CRC after prior fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy.

------ --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Onureg June 2021 EC approval of Onureg as a maintenance therapy in adult patients with AML who achieved complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following induction therapy with or without consolidation treatment and who are not candidates for, including those who choose not to proceed to, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

------------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy June 2021 EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adults with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma.

------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia May 2021 FDA approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC.

------------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy May 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo and Yervoy in combination therapy for the first-line treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent malignant pleural mesothelioma.

43

------- ---- --------
Product Date Approval

------ -------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo May 2021 FDA approval of Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of patients with completely resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer with residual pathologic disease after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

------ ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo April 2021 FDA approval of Opdivo in combination with chemotherapy for patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma, regardless of PD-L1 expression status.

------ ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo April 2021 EC approval of Opdivo in combination with CABOMETYX* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC.

------ ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Abecma March 2021 FDA approval of Abecma for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma after four or more prior lines of therapy, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody.

-------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Breyanzi March 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Breyanzi for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma and relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma.

------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inrebic February 2021 EC approval of Inrebic for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis, who are Janus Associated Kinase inhibitor naïve or have been treated with ruxolitinib.

-------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Breyanzi February 2021 FDA approval of Breyanzi for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy.

------ ------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo January 2021 FDA approval of Opdivo in combination with CABOMETYX* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC.

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2022:
•In January 2022, Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved Abecma for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least three prior therapies.

Refer to “—Product and Pipeline Developments” for all of the developments in our marketed products and late-stage pipeline in 2021 and in early 2022.

Strategy

Our principal strategy is to combine the resources, scale and capability of a pharmaceutical company with the speed and focus on innovation of the biotech industry. Our focus as a biopharmaceutical company is on discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines for patients facing serious diseases in areas where we believe that we have an opportunity to make a meaningful difference: oncology (both solid tumors and hematology), immunology, cardiovascular and neurology. Our priorities are to continue to renew and diversify our portfolio through launching our new product portfolio, advancing our early, mid and late-stage pipeline, and executing disciplined business development. We remain committed to reducing our debt and returning capital to shareholders.

44

We are developing new medicines in the following core therapeutic areas: (i) oncology with a priority in certain tumor types; (ii) hematology with opportunities to broaden our franchise and potentially sustain a leadership position in multiple myeloma; (iii) immunology with priorities in relapsing multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, lupus, RA and inflammatory bowel disease; (iv) cardiovascular disease and; (v) fibrotic disease with priorities in lung and liver. We continue to advance the next wave of innovative medicines by investing significantly in our pipeline both internally and through business development activities. We have expanded our oncology, hematology and immunology portfolios with several near-term assets and additional external partnerships. We have invested in our oncology portfolio by pursuing both monotherapy and combination approaches and advancing our next wave of early assets and to explore new collaboration opportunities across our therapeutic areas of focus. We remain focused and well-resourced in our cancer development programs and seek to broaden the use of Opdivo in earlier lines of therapy, expand into new tumors, accelerate next wave oncology mechanisms and develop treatment options for refractory oncology patients. We are further strengthening our IO portfolio with another opportunity of relatlimab in a fixed dose combination with nivolumab for the treatment of melanoma and expanded opportunities in adjuvant melanoma, lung, liver and CRC. For hematology, we have opportunities to launch several new medicines in the near-term with additional pipeline opportunities in the longer term. There is a broad effort to continue to address the unmet medical need in multiple myeloma and we are working across multiple modalities and mechanisms of action such as cereblon modulators (“CELMoDs”), T-cell Engagers and CAR T-cell therapies.

Beyond cancer, we continue to advance our early stage portfolio in immunology, cardiovascular and neuroscience diseases and strengthen our partnerships with a diverse group of companies and academic institutions in new and expanded research activities. We believe our differentiated internal and external focus contributes to the advancing of our pipeline of potentially transformational medicines. For immunology with deucravacitinib, our selective TYK2, there is opportunity to be a medicine that could treat multiple immune-mediated diseases. The FDA has accepted our NDA for deucravacitinib for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and has set a PDUFA goal date of September 10, 2022. We are expanding our portfolio for cardiovascular disease with our alliance partnership with Janssen where we are advancing a next-generation antithrombotic medicine in milvexian. Additionally, through the acquisition of MyoKardia, we have added mavacamten, which has the potential to be a first-in-class medicine to treat the underlying cause of obstructive HCM. The FDA has accepted the NDA for mavacamten for this indication and assigned a revised PDUFA goal date of April 28, 2022.

Our commercial model has been successful with revenues from our key brands continuing to grow, which demonstrates strong execution of our strategy. We continue to drive adoption of Opdivo by expanding into additional indications and tumor types both as a monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents. Eliquis continues to grow, leveraging its best in class clinical profile and extensive real world data and is now the number one novel oral anticoagulant in total prescriptions globally. Revlimid and Pomalyst have not only transformed the treatment of multiple myeloma, but as we gained deeper understanding of the mechanism of action of Revlimid and Pomalyst, we have leveraged that knowledge to intentionally design novel CELMoD agents, iberdomide and CC-92480, to improve upon these earlier treatments. We are able to leverage our leading capabilities in hematological malignancies and our robust pipeline to provide opportunities for long-term growth to offset the impact of future patent expires for Revlimid and Pomalyst. We are building on the continued success of our other key brands and remain strongly committed to Orencia and Sprycel. We are also optimistic on the future growth and near-term opportunities of Reblozyl, Inrebic, Zeposia, Onureg, Breyanzi and Abecma. Through our operating model transformation, our commercial infrastructure is leveraged for potential growth.

We expect the growth in our in-line and new product portfolio will enable us to more than offset the expected decline in Revlimid, Abraxane and other products revenues due to their loss of market exclusivity through 2025.

Our operating model continues to evolve and we have been successful in focusing commercial, R&D and manufacturing resources on key brands and markets, strengthening our R&D capabilities in tumor biology, patient selection and new biomarkers, delivering leaner administrative functions and streamlining our manufacturing network to reflect the importance of biologics in our current and future portfolio. The evolution in our operating model, which focuses on maintaining a disciplined approach in marketing, selling and administrative expenses, will enable us to deliver the necessary strategic, financial and operational flexibility to invest in the highest priority opportunities within our portfolio. Through our Celgene acquisition restructuring activities, we expect to realize approximately $3.0 billion of synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance through 2022 and our integration efforts across general and administrative, manufacturing, R&D, procurement and streamlining the Company's pricing and information technology infrastructure.

Looking ahead, we will continue to implement our biopharma strategy by driving the growth of key brands, executing product launches, investing in our diverse and innovative pipeline, aided by strategic business development, focusing on prioritized markets, increasing investments in our biologics manufacturing capabilities and maintaining a culture of continuous improvement.

45

Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements

Significant acquisitions, divestitures, licensing and other arrangements during 2021 are summarized below. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data —Note 3. Alliances” and “—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information.

Agenus - We obtained a global exclusive license to Agenus’ proprietary bispecific antibody program, AGEN1777, that blocks TIGIT and an additional target. AGEN1777 is currently in a Phase I clinical trial.

Eisai - We commenced an exclusive global strategic collaboration with Eisai for the co-development and co-commercialization of MORAb-202, a selective folate receptor alpha antibody-drug conjugate being investigated in endometrial, ovarian, lung and breast cancers. MORAb-202 is currently in Phase I/II clinical trials for solid tumors.

Prothena - We exercised our option under the global neuroscience research and development collaboration for the exclusive U.S. rights to PRX005, an anti-tau antibody that specifically targets an area within the microtubule binding region for the potential treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. PRX005 is currently in a Phase I clinical trial.

Rockefeller University - We obtained a global exclusive license to develop, manufacture and commercialize Rockefeller University’s novel monoclonal antibody duo treatment that neutralizes the SARS-CoV-2 virus for treatment and potentially for prevention of COVID-19. Phase I clinical trials to assess dosing for IV and subcutaneous formulations and to assess safety have been completed by Rockefeller University. In May 2021, enrollment initiated in the Phase II study within the NIH ACTIV-2 protocol at a network of sites within the U.S. Phase II enrollment was completed in August 2021 and topline data is expected in the first quarter of 2022.

46

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Regional Revenues

The composition of the changes in revenues was as follows:

------------------- ----------------------- ------------- ---- ----- -------- ------ ------------------- - -- - - - -
 Year Ended December 31, 2021 vs. 2020
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020 % Change Foreign Exchange(b)
United States $ 29,214 $ 26,577 10 % —
Europe 10,687 9,853 8 % 3 %
Rest of the World 5,632 5,457 3 % 1 %
Other(a) 852 631 35 % —
Total $ 46,385 $ 42,518 9 % 1 %

(a)    Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations.
(b)    Foreign exchange impacts were derived by applying the prior period average currency rates to the current period revenues.

United States

•U.S. revenues in 2021 increased due to Eliquis, our recently launched new products, Revlimid and Opdivo/Yervoy. Average net selling prices increased by approximately 2% in 2021 compared to the same period a year ago.

Europe

•Europe revenues in 2021 increased due to Eliquis, Revlimid, Opdivo/Yervoy and foreign exchange, partially offset by lower demand for Mature and other brands. Average net selling prices were lower in 2021 compared to the same period a year ago.

Rest of the World

•Rest of the World revenues in 2021 increased due to Opdivo/Yervoy, Pomalyst/Imnovid and Eliquis, partially offset by lower revenues for Abraxane, due to manufacturing delays, and Mature and other brands. Average net selling prices were lower in 2021 compared to the same period a year ago.

No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of total revenues in 2021 and 2020. Our business is typically not seasonal.

GTN Adjustments

We recognize revenue net of GTN adjustments that are further described in “—Critical Accounting Policies.”

The activities and ending reserve balances for each significant category of GTN adjustments were as follows:

-------------------------------------- ------------------------------- --- ----------------------------- ------- ------------------------------------------------- ----- ------- - -------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31, 2021
Dollars in Millions Charge-Backs and Cash Discounts Medicaid and Medicare Rebates Other Rebates, Returns, Discounts and Adjustments Total
Balance at January 1, 2021 $ 645 $ 2,595 $ 3,093 $ 6,333
Provision related to sales made in:
Current period 7,251 9,581 6,329 23,161
Prior period 2 (207) (114) (319)
Payments and returns (7,158) (8,763) (5,963) (21,884)
Foreign currency translation and other (17) — (152) (169)
Balance at December 31, 2021 $ 723 $ 3,206 $ 3,193 $ 7,122

47

The reconciliation of gross product sales to net product sales by each significant category of GTN adjustments was as follows:

------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ -------- -------- - ------ ------------- -- - -- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020 2021 vs. 2020
Gross product sales $ 67,897 $ 60,016 13 %
GTN Adjustments
Charge-backs and cash discounts (7,253) (5,827) 24 %
Medicaid and Medicare rebates (9,374) (7,595) 23 %
Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments (6,215) (5,273) 18 %
Total GTN Adjustments (22,842) (18,695) 22 %
Net product sales $ 45,055 $ 41,321 9 %

GTN adjustments percentage 33 % 31 % 2 %
U.S. 40 % 37 % 3 %
Non-U.S. 17 % 16 % 1 %

Reductions to provisions for product sales made in prior periods resulting from changes in estimates were $319 million and $106 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively. The reductions to provisions in 2021 was primarily related to Eliquis coverage gap discounts. GTN adjustments are primarily a function of product sales volume, regional and payer channel mix, contractual or legislative discounts and rebates. U.S. GTN adjustments percentage increased primarily due to higher government channel mix, which has higher GTN adjustment percentages.

48

Product Revenues

------------------- ----------------------- ------ -------- ----- ------------- ------ ---- - - -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020 2021 vs. 2020

Revlimid $ 12,821 $ 12,106 6 %
U.S. 8,695 8,291 5 %
Non-U.S. 4,126 3,815 8 %

Eliquis 10,762 9,168 17 %
U.S. 6,456 5,485 18 %
Non-U.S. 4,306 3,683 17 %

Opdivo 7,523 6,992 8 %
U.S. 4,202 3,945 7 %
Non-U.S. 3,321 3,047 9 %

Pomalyst/Imnovid 3,332 3,070 9 %
U.S. 2,249 2,136 5 %
Non-U.S. 1,083 934 16 %

Orencia 3,306 3,157 5 %
U.S. 2,410 2,268 6 %
Non-U.S. 896 889 1 %

Sprycel 2,117 2,140 (1) %
U.S. 1,297 1,295 —
Non-U.S. 820 845 (3) %

Yervoy 2,026 1,682 20 %
U.S. 1,265 1,124 13 %
Non-U.S. 761 558 36 %

Abraxane 1,181 1,247 (5) %
U.S. 898 873 3 %
Non-U.S. 283 374 (24) %

Reblozyl 551 274 **
U.S. 485 259 87 %
Non-U.S. 66 15 **

Empliciti 334 381 (12) %
U.S. 200 230 (13) %
Non-U.S. 134 151 (11) %

Abecma 164 — N/A
U.S. 158 — N/A
Non-U.S. 6 — N/A

Zeposia 134 12 **
U.S. 99 10 **
Non-U.S. 35 2 **

Breyanzi 87 — N/A
U.S. 84 — N/A
Non-U.S. 3 — N/A

49

----------------------- ----------------------- -------- ------ ------------- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020 2021 vs. 2020

Inrebic 74 55 35 %
U.S. 67 55 22 %
Non-U.S. 7 — N/A

Onureg 73 17 **
U.S. 69 17 **
Non-U.S. 4 — N/A

Mature and other brands 1,900 2,217 (14) %
U.S. 580 589 (2) %
Non-U.S. 1,320 1,628 (19) %

Total Revenues 46,385 42,518 9 %
U.S. 29,214 26,577 10 %
Non-U.S. 17,171 15,941 8 %

** Change in excess of 100%.

Revlimid (lenalidomide) — an oral immunomodulatory drug that in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma. Revlimid as a single agent is also indicated as a maintenance therapy in patients with multiple myeloma following autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant.

•U.S. revenues increased 5% in 2021 due to higher average net selling prices and higher demand.

•International revenues increased 8% in 2021 due to higher demand and foreign exchange impacts of 3%. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues increased by 5%.

•In the U.S., certain third parties have been granted volume-limited licenses to sell generic lenalidomide beginning in March 2022 or thereafter. In the EU, licenses have been granted to third parties to market generic lenalidomide products prior to expiry of our patent and supplementary protection certificate rights beginning in the UK in January 2022 and in various other major market European countries (e.g. France, Germany, Italy and Spain) where our supplementary protection certificate is in force beginning in February 2022. In Japan, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is based on a composition of matter patent, which expires in July 2022. Global revenues for Revlimid are expected to decline to approximately $9.5 billion to $10.0 billion in 2022.

Eliquis (apixaban) — an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, indicated for the reduction in risk of stroke/systemic embolism in NVAF and for the treatment of DVT/PE and reduction in risk of recurrence following initial therapy.

•U.S. revenues increased 18% in 2021 due to higher demand. A majority of Eliquis patients enter the coverage gap during the third and fourth quarters which result in lower revenues during the second half of the year.

•International revenues increased 17% in 2021 due to higher demand and foreign exchange impacts of 3%. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues increased by 14%.

•In September 2021, the Bristol Myers Squibb-Pfizer Alliance announced that the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the U.S. District Court’s August 2020 decision finding the composition of matter patent and formulation patent covering Eliquis valid and infringed. Given the decision, the earliest that generic manufacturers are permitted to launch their apixaban products is April 1, 2028, subject to additional challenges.

Following the May 2021 expiration of regulatory exclusivity for Eliquis in Europe, generic manufacturers may seek to market generic versions of Eliquis in Europe prior to the expiration of our patents, which may lead to additional, infringement and invalidity actions involving our Eliquis patents being filed in various countries in Europe. We believe in the innovative science behind Eliquis and the strength of our intellectual property, which we will defend against infringement. Refer to “Item 1. Financial Statements—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies—Intellectual Property” for further information.

50

Opdivo (nivolumab) — a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 on T and NKT cells that has been approved for several anti-cancer indications including bladder, blood, CRC, head and neck, RCC, HCC, lung, melanoma, MPM and stomach. The Opdivo+Yervoy regimen also is approved in multiple markets for the treatment of NSCLC, melanoma, MPM, RCC, CRC and various gastric and esophageal cancers. There are several ongoing potentially registrational studies for Opdivo across other tumor types and disease areas, in monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy and various anti-cancer agents.

•U.S. revenues increased 7% in 2021 due to higher demand across multiple therapies including the Opdivo+Yervoy combinations in NSCLC, Opdivo+CABOMETYX* combination in kidney cancer and Opdivo in various gastric and esophageal cancers and higher average net selling prices, partially offset by declining second-line eligibility across tumor indications and increased competition.

•International revenues increased 9% in 2021 due to higher demand and foreign exchange impacts of 2%, partially offset by lower average net selling prices. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues increased by 7%.

Pomalyst/Imnovid (pomalidomide) — a proprietary, distinct, small molecule that is administered orally and modulates the immune system and other biologically important targets. Pomalyst/Imnovid is indicated for patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy.

•U.S. revenues increased 5% in 2021 due to higher average net selling prices and higher demand.

•International revenues increased 16% in 2021 due to higher demand and foreign exchange impacts of 2% partially offset by lower average net selling prices. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues increased by 14%.

Orencia (abatacept) — a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderately to severely active RA and PsA and is also indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in certain pediatric patients with moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA.

•U.S. revenues increased 6% in 2021 due to higher demand.

•International revenues remained consistent in 2021 due to foreign exchange impacts of 2%, offset by lower demand. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues decreased by 1%.

•In the U.S. and EU, estimated minimum market exclusivity dates were previously based on method of use patents that expired in 2021. Formulation and additional patents expire in 2026 and beyond. There are no Orencia biosimilars on the market in the U.S., EU or Japan.

Sprycel (dasatinib) — an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinase indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML in chronic phase and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec* (imatinib mesylate) and the treatment of children and adolescents aged 1 year to 18 years with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML.

•U.S. revenues remained consistent in 2021 due to higher demand offset by lower average net selling prices.

•International revenues decreased 3% in 2021 due to lower demand as a result of increased generic competition in certain indications and lower average net selling prices, partially offset by foreign exchange impacts of 1%. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues decreased by 4%.

Yervoy (ipilimumab) — a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The Opdivo+Yervoy regimen also is approved in multiple markets for the treatment of NSCLC, melanoma, MPM, RCC, and CRC.

•U.S. revenues increased 13% in 2021 due to higher demand primarily from the Opdivo+Yervoy combination for NSCLC and higher average net selling prices.

•International revenues increased 36% in 2021 due to higher demand and foreign exchange impacts of 2% partially offset by lower average net selling prices. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues increased by 34%.

51

Abraxane (paclitaxel albumin-bound particles for injectable suspension) — a solvent-free protein-bound chemotherapy product that combines paclitaxel with albumin using our proprietary Nab® technology platform, and is used to treat breast cancer, NSCLC and pancreatic cancer, among others.

•U.S. revenues increased 3% in 2021 due to higher average net selling prices and higher demand.

•International revenues decreased 24% in 2021 due to manufacturing delays and lower demand resulting from generic competition, partially offset by foreign exchange impacts of 3%. Excluding foreign exchange impacts, revenues decreased by 27%.

•We expect that the manufacturing delays in the U.S. and International will continue into the first quarter 2022.

•In the U.S., based on settlements reached we anticipate generic entry beginning in March 2022. In the EU, generics have entered the market. In Japan, the estimated minimum market exclusivity date is 2023 based on a method of use patent. Global revenues for Abraxane are expected to decline by approximately 25% to 30% starting in 2022.

Reblozyl (luspatercept-aamt) — an erythroid maturation agent indicated for the treatment of anemia in adult patients with beta thalassemia who require regular red blood cell transfusions and for the treatment of anemia failing an ESA in adult patients with very low- to intermediate-risk MDS who have ring sideroblasts and require RBC transfusions.

•U.S. revenues increased 87% in 2021 due to higher demand primarily from the launch of Reblozyl in April 2020 for the treatment of adult patients with MDS previously treated with ESA.

Empliciti (elotuzumab) — a humanized monoclonal antibody for the treatment of multiple myeloma.

Abecma (idecabtagene vicleucel) — is a B-cell maturation antigen-directed genetically modified autologous CAR T cell therapy indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma after four or more prior lines of therapy, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody. Abecma was launched in May 2021.

Zeposia (ozanimod) — an oral immunomodulatory drug used to treat relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults and to treat moderately to severely active UC in adults. Zeposia was launched in June 2020.

Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel) — is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous CAR T cell therapy indicated for the treatment of adult patients with certain types of relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy. Breyanzi was launched in April 2021.

Inrebic (fedratinib) — an oral kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with intermediate-2 or high-risk primary or secondary (post-polycythemia vera or post-essential thrombocythemia) myelofibrosis. Inrebic was launched in August 2019.

Onureg (azacitidine) — an oral hypomethylating agent that incorporates into DNA and RNA, indicated for continued treatment of adult patients with AML who achieved first complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following intensive induction chemotherapy and are not able to complete intensive curative therapy. Onureg was launched in September 2020.

Mature and other brands — includes all other brands, including those which have lost exclusivity in major markets, OTC brands and royalty revenue.

•International revenues decreased due to lower demand and lower average net selling prices resulting from generic competition.

52

Estimated End-User Demand

Pursuant to the SEC Consent Order described under “—SEC Consent Order”, we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand for the following products were not material to our results of operations as of the dates indicated.

Abraxane had 1.4 months of inventory on hand internationally in the distribution channel at September 30, 2021 compared to 1.9 months of inventory on hand at June 30, 2021 due to on-going business transition from a distributor and to avert a forecasted back order in Latin America.

In the U.S., we generally determine our months on hand estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement provided by our three largest wholesalers, which account for approximately 76% of total gross sales of U.S. products for the year ended December 31, 2021. Factors that may influence our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, these estimates are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.

Revlimid and Pomalyst are distributed in the U.S. primarily through contracted pharmacies under the Lenalidomide REMS and Pomalyst REMS programs, respectively. These are proprietary risk-management distribution programs tailored specifically to provide for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of Revlimid and Pomalyst. Internationally, Revlimid and Imnovid are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored to meet local authorities’ specifications to provide for the products’ safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk-management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies.

Our non-U.S. businesses have significantly more direct customers. Information on available direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information varies widely. We limit our direct customer sales channel inventory reporting to where we can influence demand. When this information does not exist or is otherwise not available, we have developed a variety of methodologies to estimate such data, including using historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Given the difficulties inherent in estimating third-party demand information, we evaluate our methodologies to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand on an ongoing basis and make changes as necessary. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. As such, all of the information required to estimate months on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. business for the year ended December 31, 2021 is not available prior to the filing of this 2021 Form 10-K. We will disclose any product with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception, in the next quarterly report on Form 10-Q.

Expenses

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ -------- ------- ------------ ------ ----- - ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollar in Millions 2021 2020 2021 vs 2020
Cost of products sold(a) $ 9,940 $ 11,773 (16) %
Marketing, selling and administrative 7,690 7,661 —
Research and development 11,354 11,143 2 %
IPRD charge - MyoKardia acquisition — 11,438 (100) %
Amortization of acquired intangible assets 10,023 9,688 3 %
Other (income)/expense, net (720) (2,314) (69) %
Total Expenses $ 38,287 $ 49,389 (22) %

(a)    Excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets.

53

Cost of products sold

Cost of products sold include material, internal labor and overhead costs from our owned manufacturing sites, third-party product supply costs and other supply chain costs managed by our global manufacturing and supply organization. Cost of products sold also includes royalties and profit sharing, certain excise taxes, foreign currency hedge settlement gains and losses and impairment charges. Cost of products sold typically vary between periods as a result of product mix and volume (particularly royalties and profit sharing), and to a lesser extent changes in foreign currency, price, inflation, costs attributed to manufacturing site exits and impairment charges. Cost of products sold excludes amortization from acquired intangible assets.

•Cost of products sold decreased by $1.8 billion in 2021 primarily due to lower unwinding of inventory purchase price adjustments ($2.4 billion), lower impairments of acquired marketed product rights ($260 million), partially offset by higher profit sharing and royalties due to Eliquis revenue growth and expiration of Sprycel co-promotion fee ($539 million) and higher product and manufacturing related costs.

Marketing, selling and administrative

Marketing, selling and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees, outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs, advertising and product promotion costs. Expenses are managed through regional commercialization organizations or global enabling functions such as finance, legal, information technology and human resources. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements.

•Marketing, selling and administrative expenses remained unchanged in 2021 primarily due to higher advertising and promotion expenses and costs to support new product launches, offset by a cash settlement of MyoKardia unvested stock awards ($241 million) in 2020 and acceleration of charitable giving ($280 million) in 2020.

Research and development

Research and development activities include research and early discovery, preclinical and clinical development, drug formulation and medical support of marketed products. Expenses include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research organizations, supplies, up-front and contingent milestone payments for licensing and asset acquisitions of investigational compounds, IPRD impairment charges and proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs. The allocations include facilities, information technology, employee stock compensation costs and other appropriate costs. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements. Expenses typically vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of license and asset acquisition charges and IPRD impairment charges.

•Research and development expense increased $211 million in 2021 primarily due to higher costs associated with the overall portfolio and the impact of significant charges summarized below.

Significant charges included in Research and development expense were as follows:

----------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Eisai up-front collaboration fee $ 650 $ —
Agenus up-front license fee 200 —
Prothena opt-in license fee 80 —
Dragonfly up-front license fee and milestone — 475
bluebird collaboration fee — 200
Forbius asset acquisition — 178
Cormorant milestone — 100
Other milestones 50 50
License and asset acquisition charges 980 1,003

IPRD impairments 840 470
Inventory purchase price accounting adjustments 1 36
Employee compensation charges 1 282
Site exit and other costs 1 115
Research and development significant charges $ 1,823 $ 1,906

54

License and acquisition charges are related to obtaining rights to investigational compounds that will be developed further by the company. These acquisition costs include the initial up-front payment and additional contingent payments if substantive development and regulatory milestones are achieved prior to regulatory approval. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Alliances” and “—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information on these charges. IPRD impairment charges relate to orva-cel in 2020 and two other programs in 2021 being studied as potential treatments in hematologic and fibrotic diseases. Refer to Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 14. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” for further information on these charges. Employee compensation charges resulted from the cash settlement of MyoKardia unvested stock awards in 2020. Site exit costs resulted from Celgene integration activities in 2020.

IPRD charge - MyoKardia acquisition

IPRD charges represents the costs of IPRD assets acquired in a transaction other than a business combination.

•The MyoKardia acquisition was accounted for as an asset acquisition because substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (excluding cash and deferred taxes) was allocated to a single asset, mavacamten. The IPRD charge related to the MyoKardia transaction is presented separately due to the significance of the charge.

Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets

Amortization of intangible assets primarily relates to Revlimid, Pomalyst/Imnovid and other marketed product rights obtained in the Celgene acquisition.

•Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $335 million in 2021 due to additional product approvals.

Other (income)/expense, net

•Other (income)/expense, net changed by $1.6 billion in 2021, primarily due to contingent value rights, equity investments and other items discussed below.

Components of Other (income)/expense, net were as follows:

--------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------- - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Interest expense $ 1,334 $ 1,420
Royalties and licensing income (1,733) (1,527)
Equity investment gains (745) (1,228)
Integration expenses 564 717
Contingent consideration (542) (1,757)
Loss on debt redemption 281 —
Provision for restructuring 169 530
Litigation and other settlements 82 (194)
Transition and other service fees (49) (149)
Investment income (39) (121)

Divestiture gains (9) (55)
Intangible asset impairment — 21
Reversion excise tax — 76
Other (33) (47)
Other (income)/expense, net $ (720) $ (2,314)

55

•Royalties and licensing income includes diabetes business royalties, Keytruda* royalties, Tecentriq* royalties, up-front licensing fees and milestones for products that have not obtained commercial approval. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information.
•Equity investment gains includes fair value adjustments for investments that have readily determinable fair value and observable price changes for investments without readily determinable fair values resulting primarily from initial public offerings or third-party acquisitions of entities which we held an ownership interest. Our share of income from equity method investments are primarily due to fair value adjustments attributed to limited partnerships. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” for more information.
•Integration expenses primarily includes consulting fees to implement Celgene integration initiatives related to processes and systems.
•Contingent consideration primarily includes fair value adjustments resulting from the change in the traded price of contingent value rights issued with the Celgene acquisition. The contractual obligation to pay the contingent value rights terminated in January 2021 because the FDA did not approve liso-cel (JCAR017) by December 31, 2020.
•A loss on debt redemption resulted from the early redemption of $3.5 billion long-term debt obligations in 2021.
•Provision for restructuring includes exit and other costs primarily related to the Celgene acquisition plan. We have achieved approximately $2.6 billion of annualized pre-tax cost savings in 2020 related to the Celgene Acquisition Plan and are on track to achieve the annualized pre-tax cost savings of approximately $3.0 billion through 2022 as detailed in the restructuring activities. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Restructuring” for further information.
•Litigation and other settlements includes BMS's share of a patent-infringement settlement related to Roche Group's PD-L1 antibody Tecentriq* in 2020.
•Investment income decreased in 2021 primarily due to lower interest rates.
•Reversion excise tax resulted from the transfer of the retiree medical plan assets back to the Company in 2020.

Income Taxes

-------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Earnings/(Loss) Before Income Taxes $ 8,098 $ (6,871)
Provision for Income Taxes 1,084 2,124
Effective Tax Rate 13.4 % (30.9) %

Impact of Specified Items 2.5 % 46.5 %
Effective Tax Rate Excluding Specified Items 15.9 % 15.6 %

The tax impact attributed to specified items was primarily due to low jurisdictional tax rates attributed to the unwinding of inventory purchase price adjustments and intangible asset amortization, IPRD impairment charges, contingent value rights fair value adjustments that are not taxable or deductible and internal transfers of intangible assets. In 2021, a $1.0 billion income tax benefit was recognized due to a revaluation of the tax basis of certain intangible and other assets that were internally transferred to streamline our legal entity structure subsequent to the Celgene acquisition. In 2020, an $853 million deferred tax charge resulting from an internal transfer of certain intangible assets to the U.S. to streamline our legal entity structure subsequent to the Celgene acquisition and an additional $266 million GILTI tax charge upon finalization of the Otezla* divestiture tax consequences with tax authorities was recognized. The 0.3% increase in the effective tax rate excluding specified items during 2021 was due to favorable discrete tax adjustments of approximately $140 million in 2020 primarily resulting from finalization of prior year tax returns, partially offset by jurisdictional earnings mix. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7. Income Taxes” for additional information.

56

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that are evaluated on an individual basis. These items are adjusted after considering their quantitative and qualitative aspects and typically have one or more of the following characteristics, such as being highly variable, difficult to project, unusual in nature, significant to the results of a particular period or not indicative of future operating results. Similar charges or gains were recognized in prior periods and will likely reoccur in future periods including (i) amortization of acquired intangible assets, including product rights that generate a significant portion of our ongoing revenue and will recur until the intangible assets are fully amortized, (ii) unwind of inventory purchase price adjustments, (iii) acquisition and integration expenses, (iv) restructuring costs, (v) accelerated depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, (vi) R&D charges or other income resulting from up-front or contingent milestone payments in connection with the acquisition or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights, (vii) divestiture gains or losses, (viii) stock compensation resulting from accelerated vesting of Celgene awards and certain retention-related employee compensation charges related to the Celgene transaction, (ix) pension, legal and other contractual settlement charges, (x) equity investment and contingent value rights fair value adjustments, including adjustments attributed to limited partnership equity method investments and (xi) amortization of fair value adjustments of debt acquired from Celgene in our 2019 exchange offer, among other items. Deferred and current income taxes attributed to these items are also adjusted for considering their individual impact to the overall tax expense, deductibility and jurisdictional tax rates. Certain other significant tax items are also excluded such as the impact resulting from internal transfers of intangible and other assets to streamline our legal entity structure subsequent to the Celgene acquisition and the GILTI tax charge upon finalization of the Otezla* divestiture in 2020. We also provide international revenues for our priority products excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We calculate foreign exchange impacts by converting our current-period local currency financial results using the prior period average currency rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current-period results. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K filed on February 4, 2022 and are incorporated herein by reference.

Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance, supplement or enhance management, analysts and investors’ overall understanding of our underlying financial performance and facilitate comparisons among current, past and future periods. For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators that we use as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be the same as or comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies due to possible differences in method and in the items being adjusted. We encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.

57

Specified items were as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------- - ------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Inventory purchase price accounting adjustments $ 264 $ 2,688
Intangible asset impairment 315 575
Employee compensation charges — 4
Site exit and other costs 24 33
Cost of products sold 603 3,300

Employee compensation charges 1 275
Site exit and other costs 2 4
Marketing, selling and administrative 3 279

License and asset acquisition charges 980 1,003
IPRD impairments 840 470
Inventory purchase price accounting adjustments 1 36
Employee compensation charges 1 282
Site exit and other costs 1 115
Research and development 1,823 1,906

IPRD charge - MyoKardia acquisition — 11,438

Amortization of acquired intangible assets 10,023 9,688

Interest expense(a) (120) (159)
Contingent consideration (542) (1,757)
Royalties and licensing income (72) (168)
Equity investment gains (758) (1,156)
Integration expenses 564 717
Provision for restructuring 169 530
Litigation and other settlements — (239)
Reversion excise tax — 76
Divestiture gains (9) (55)
Loss on debt redemption 281 —
Other (income)/expense, net (487) (2,211)

Increase to pretax income 11,965 24,400

Income taxes on items above (1,122) (1,733)
Income taxes attributed to Otezla* divestiture — 266
Income taxes attributed to internal transfer of intangible assets (983) 853
Income taxes (2,105) (614)

Increase to net earnings $ 9,860 $ 23,786

(a)    Includes amortization of purchase price adjustments to Celgene debt.

58

The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- ------ - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2021 2020

Net Earnings/(Loss) Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — GAAP $ 6,994 $ (9,015)
Specified Items 9,860 23,786
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — Non-GAAP $ 16,854 $ 14,771

Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding – Diluted – GAAP 2,245 2,258
Incremental Shares Attributable to Share-Based Compensation Plans — 35
Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding — Diluted – Non-GAAP 2,245 2,293

Diluted Earnings/(Loss) Per Share Attributable to BMS — GAAP $ 3.12 $ (3.99)
Diluted EPS Attributable to Specified Items 4.39 10.43
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS — Non-GAAP $ 7.51 $ 6.44

Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our net debt position was as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------- ---- -------- - --------
 December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Cash and cash equivalents $ 13,979 $ 14,546
Marketable debt securities — current 2,987 1,285
Marketable debt securities — non-current — 433
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities 16,966 16,264
Short-term debt obligations (4,948) (2,340)
Long-term debt (39,605) (48,336)
Net debt position $ (27,587) $ (34,412)

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We regularly assess our anticipated working capital needs, debt and leverage levels, debt maturities, capital expenditure requirements, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and future investments or acquisitions in order to maximize shareholder return, efficiently finance our ongoing operations and maintain flexibility for future strategic transactions. We also regularly evaluate our capital structure to ensure financial risks, adequate liquidity access and lower cost of capital are efficiently managed, which may lead to the issuance of additional debt securities, the repurchase of debt securities prior to maturity or the issuance or repurchase of common stock. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities together with cash generated from operations and, if required, from the issuance of commercial paper will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for at least the next few years, including dividends, capital expenditures, milestone payments, working capital, restructuring initiatives, business development, repurchase of common stock, debt maturities of approximately $15.1 billion through 2025 as well as any debt repurchases through redemptions or tender offers.

We have a share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors allowing for repurchases of our shares. The specific timing and number of shares repurchased will be determined by our management at its discretion and will vary based on market conditions, securities law limitations and other factors. The share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of shares, does not have a specific expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The repurchases may be effected through a combination of one or more open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions and other derivative transactions, relying on Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. The outstanding share repurchase authorization under the program was $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2020. Our Board of Directors approved an increase to the share repurchase authorization of our common stock of $2.0 billion in January 2021 and $15.0 billion in December 2021. We repurchased approximately 102 million shares of our common stock for $6.2 billion in 2021. The remaining share repurchase capacity under the share repurchase program was approximately $15.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16. Equity” for additional information.

59

In February 2022, we executed accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreements to repurchase an aggregate $5.0 billion of our common stock. These ASR agreements were funded with cash on-hand and are expected to settle during the second and third quarters of 2022. The total number of shares to be repurchased under the ASR agreements will be based on volume-weighted average prices of our common stock during the terms of the ASR transactions less a discount and subject to adjustments pursuant to the terms and conditions of the ASR agreements..

Dividend payments were $4.4 billion in 2021 and $4.1 billion in 2020. Dividends are authorized on a quarterly basis by our Board of Directors.

Under our commercial paper program, we may issue a maximum of $5 billion unsecured notes that have maturities of not more than 366 days from the date of issuance. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2021.

In 2021, we purchased an aggregate principal amount of $3.5 billion of certain debt securities for approximately $4.0 billion of cash in a series of tender offers and “make whole” redemptions and $2.0 billion of notes matured and were repaid.

At December 31, 2021, we had four separate revolving credit facilities totaling $6.0 billion, which consisted of a 364-day $2.0 billion facility which expired in January 2022, a three-year $1.0 billion facility which expired in January 2022 and two five-year $1.5 billion facilities that were extended to September 2025 and July 2026, respectively. No borrowings were outstanding under any revolving credit facility at December 31, 2021 or 2020.

In January 2022, we entered into a five-year $5.0 billion facility expiring in January 2027, which is extendable annually by one year with the consent of the lenders. This facility provides for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and may be used to provide backup liquidity for our commercial paper borrowings. Concurrently with the entry into this facility, the commitments under our existing five-year $1.5 billion facilities were terminated and the three-year $1.0 billion facility and 364-day $2.0 billion facility expired in accordance with their terms in January 2022.

Our investment portfolio includes marketable debt securities, which are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our investment policy establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” for further information.

Capital Expenditures

Annual capital expenditures were approximately $970 million in 2021, $750 million in 2020 and $800 million in 2019 and are expected to be approximately $1.2 billion in both 2022 and 2023. We continue to make capital expenditures in connection with the expansion of our cell therapy and other manufacturing capabilities, research and development and other facility-related activities.

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. Information regarding our obligations relating to debt, income taxes and lease arrangements are provided in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7. Income Taxes”, “—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” and “—Note 13. Leases”, respectively.

We are committed to an aggregate $21.1 billion of potential contingent future research and development milestone payments to third parties for in-licensing, asset acquisitions and development programs including early-stage milestones of $7.4 billion (milestones achieved through Phase III clinical studies) and late-stage milestones of $13.7 billion (milestones achieved post Phase III clinical studies). Payments generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Certain agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating to $15.0 billion that we would be obligated to pay upon achievement of certain sales levels in addition to royalties. We also have certain manufacturing, development and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of these obligations. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Alliances” for further information regarding our alliances.

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to our financial condition or results of operations.

60

Credit Ratings

Our current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Moody’s Investors Service are A2 and Prime-1, respectively, with a stable long-term credit outlook, and our current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poor’s are A+ and A-1, respectively with a negative long-term credit outlook. The long-term ratings reflect the agencies’ opinion that we have a low default risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. The short-term ratings reflect the agencies’ opinion that we have good to extremely strong capacity for timely repayment. Any credit rating downgrade may affect the interest rate of any debt we may incur, the fair market value of existing debt and our ability to access the capital markets generally.

Cash Flows

The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:

-------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- -------- - ------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 16,207 $ 14,052
Investing activities (538) (10,859)
Financing activities (16,224) (1,151)

Operating Activities

Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements from all of our activities other than investing and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for noncontrolling interest, non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of operations. As a result, changes in cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance partners; payments to suppliers, alliance partners and employees; customer discounts and rebates; and tax payments in the ordinary course of business.

The $2.2 billion change in cash flow from operating activities compared to 2020 was primarily due to higher cash collections and timing of payments in the ordinary course of business, lower Celgene restructuring and integration payments ($400 million) and cash settlement of MyoKardia unvested stock awards in 2020 ($500 million), partially offset by reversion of post-retirement plan assets ($300 million) in 2020.

Investing Activities

Cash requirements from investing activities include cash used for acquisitions, manufacturing and facility-related capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities with original maturities greater than 90 days at the time of purchase, proceeds from business divestitures (including royalties), the sale and maturity of marketable securities, sale of equity investments and upfront and contingent milestones from licensing arrangements.

The $10.3 billion change in cash flow from investing activities compared to 2020 was due to lower licensing and asset acquisition payments of $11.5 billion primarily resulting from the MyoKardia acquisition in 2020 and higher proceeds from sales of equity investments of approximately $2.4 billion in 2021, partially offset by changes in the amount of marketable debt securities held of $3.4 billion.

Financing Activities

Cash requirements from financing activities include cash used to pay dividends, repurchase common stock and repay long-term debt and other borrowings reduced by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of long-term debt and other borrowings.

The $15.1 billion change in cash flow from financing activities compared to 2020 was primarily due to debt issuances of approximately $7.0 billion to partially fund the MyoKardia acquisition in 2020, higher debt repayments of $3.3 billion, including a series of tender offer and “make whole” redemptions, and higher share repurchases of $4.7 billion in 2021.

61

SEC Consent Order

As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.

Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.

We have established a company-wide policy concerning our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent, which includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis.

We maintain DSAs with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of our gross U.S. revenues. Under the current terms of the DSAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 76% of our gross U.S. revenues. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. business’s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.

We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

For recently issued accounting standards, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards.”

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our critical accounting policies are those that significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. Revenue is recognized following a five-step model: (i) identify the customer contract; (ii) identify the contract’s performance obligation; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation; and (v) recognize revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is also reduced for GTN sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g. Medicare or Medicaid), current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory levels in the distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revise information or actual experience.

62

The following categories of GTN adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external sources. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2. Revenue” for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of GTN sales adjustments.

Charge-backs and cash discounts

Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower program price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed charge-back claims attributable to a sale (typically within a two to four week time lag).

In the U.S. and certain other countries, customers are offered cash discounts as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of the invoiced sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of cash discount at the time of sale and the discount is typically taken by the customer within one month.

Medicaid and Medicare rebates

Our U.S. business participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid plans. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability.

Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. We also pay a 70% point of service discount to the CMS when the Medicare Part D beneficiaries are in the coverage gap. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments

Other GTN sales adjustments include sales returns and all other programs based on applicable laws and regulations for individual non-U.S. countries as well as rebates offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. to a lesser extent. The non-U.S. programs include several different pricing schemes such as cost caps, volume discounts, outcome-based pricing schemes and pricing claw-backs that are based on sales of individual companies or an aggregation of all companies participating in a specific market. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors including levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and lower demand following the loss of market exclusivity. Estimated returns for new products are determined after considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as those within the same product line, similar therapeutic area and/or similar distribution model and estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand. The estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability.

Use of information from external sources

Information from external sources is used to estimate GTN adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers is based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals.

We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.

63

Long-lived Assets

Intangible Assets Valuations

A significant amount of the purchase price for the Celgene acquisition was allocated to intangible assets, including acquired marketed product rights and IPRD assets. Our intangible assets were $42.5 billion as of December 31, 2021 and $53.2 billion as of December 31, 2020.

Identifiable intangible assets are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. We engaged an independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. The fair value of these assets were estimated using discounted cash flow models. These models required the use of the following significant estimates and assumptions among others:

•Identification of product candidates with sufficient substance requiring separate recognition;
•Estimates of revenues and operating profits related to commercial products or product candidates;
•Eligible patients, pricing and market share used in estimating future revenues;
•Probability of success for unapproved product candidates and additional indications for commercial products;
•Resources required to complete the development and approval of product candidates;
•Timing of regulatory approvals and exclusivity;
•Appropriate discount rate by products;
•Market participant income tax rates; and
•Allocation of expected synergies to products.

We believe the estimated and preliminary fair value assigned to intangible assets acquired used reasonable estimates and assumptions considering the facts and circumstances as of the acquisition date.

Impairment and Amortization of Long-lived Assets, including Intangible Assets

Long-lived assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable or at least annually for IPRD. Intangible assets are highly vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly newly acquired assets for recently launched products or IPRD. These assets are initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations could potentially lead to impairment. Some of the more common potential risks leading to impairment include changes in competitive landscape, earlier than expected loss of market exclusivity, pricing reductions, adverse regulatory changes or clinical study results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval for initial or follow on indications and unanticipated development costs, inability to achieve expected synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other macro-economic changes. The complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar to the initial valuation. If the carrying value of long-lived assets exceeds its fair value, then the asset is written-down to its fair value. Expectations of future cash flows are subject to change based upon the near and long-term production volumes and margins generated by the asset as well as any potential alternative future use. The estimated useful lives of long-lived assets is subjective and requires significant judgment regarding patent lives, future plans and external market factors. Long-lived assets are also periodically reviewed for changes in facts or circumstances resulting in a reduction to the estimated useful life of the asset, requiring the acceleration of depreciation or amortization. In 2021, an impairment charge of $315 million was recognized in Cost of products sold as the carrying value of Inrebic EU regulatory approval milestones exceeded the projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets. Additionally, impairment charges of $840 million were recorded in Research and development expense relating to two IPRD assets. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 14. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” for further discussion and analysis of these impairment charges.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill was $20.5 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.

We assess the goodwill balance within our single reporting unit annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable to determine whether any impairment in this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of such impairment. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by assessing qualitative factors, including comparing our market capitalization to the carrying value of our assets. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities and acts by governments and courts.

64

Income Taxes

Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $2.7 billion at December 31, 2021 (net of valuation allowances of $1.1 billion) and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2020 (net of valuation allowances of $2.8 billion).

The U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards were $585 million at December 31, 2021. These carryforwards were acquired as a result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2021 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).

Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson & Company to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions.

Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future conduct of its business and other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value.

In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (“ELA”) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and it is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009.

We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement, including certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the initial public offering and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO. Mead Johnson has also agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets.

Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.

For discussions on income taxes, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Income Taxes” and “—Note 7. Income Taxes.”

Contingencies

In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.

For discussions on contingencies, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Contingencies,” “—Note 7. Income Taxes” and “—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”

65

Product and Pipeline Developments

Our R&D programs are managed on a portfolio basis from early discovery through late-stage development and include a balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. Our late stage R&D programs in Phase III development include both investigational compounds for initial indications and additional indications or formulations for marketed products. Spending on these programs represent approximately 40% of our annual R&D expenses in the last three years. Opdivo was the only investigational compound or marketed product that represented greater than 10% of our R&D expenses in the last three years. Our late-stage development programs could potentially have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years if regulatory approvals are obtained and products are successfully commercialized. The following are the developments in our marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo Bladder August 2021 Announced FDA approval for Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of patients with urothelial carcinoma who are at high risk of recurrence after undergoing radical resection, regardless of prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy, nodal involvement or PD-L1 status. The approval is based on the Phase III CheckMate-274 trial.
March 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the submission of a supplemental application for Opdivo to expand its use as adjuvant therapy of resected urothelial cancer, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval. The application is based on results from the global Phase III CheckMate-274 (ONO-4538-33) trial.
March 2021 Announced that the EMA validated the type II variation application for Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of patients with surgically resected, high-risk muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma. The application is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-274 trial.
Gastric and Esophageal Cancers November 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved Opdivo for expanded use for the first-line treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer in combination with chemotherapy, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval. The approval is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-649 (ONO-4538-44) trial.
November 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of esophageal cancer, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval. The approval is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-577 (ONO-4538-43) trial.
October 2021 Announced EC approval of Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with HER2-negative advanced or metastatic gastric, gastroesophageal junction, or esophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 with a combined positive score ≥ 5. The approval is based on results from the Phase III Checkmate-649 trial.
July 2021 Announced EC approval of Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer who have residual pathologic disease following prior neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. The approval is based on results from the Phase 3 CheckMate-577 trial.
May 2021 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of patients with completely resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer with residual pathologic disease who have received neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. The approval is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-577 trial.
April 2021 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo in combination with combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma, regardless of PD-L1 expression status. The approval is based on the Phase III CheckMate-649 trial.
April 2021 Announced positive topline results from the Phase III CheckMate-648 trial evaluating treatment with Opdivo plus chemotherapy or Opdivo plus Yervoy in patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic ESCC. Opdivo plus chemotherapy met primary and secondary endpoints of overall survival in patients with tumors expressing PD-L1 and in the all-randomized patient population, and also the primary endpoint of progression free survival in the PD-L1+ population. Opdivo plus Yervoy met primary and secondary endpoints of overall survival in both populations, whereas the other primary endpoint of progression free survival in the PD-L1+ population was not met.
HCC July 2021 Announced that in consultation with the FDA, we withdrew the U.S. indication for Opdivo in HCC following treatment with sorafenib. Opdivo was granted accelerated approval for this indication in 2017 based on tumor responses from the Phase I/II CheckMate-040 trial. CheckMate-459, the confirmatory randomized study of Opdivo versus sorafenib in the first-line setting, did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint of overall survival per the pre-specified analysis.

66

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo Hodgkin Lymphoma September 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved Opdivo for the treatment of pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval. The approval is based on results from the Phase I PENGUIN trial.
NSCLC November 2021 Announced the Phase III CheckMate-816 trial met the primary endpoint of improved event-free survival in patients with resectable stage IB to IIIA NSCLC. In a prespecified interim analysis, Opdivo plus chemotherapy showed a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in event-free survival compared to chemotherapy alone when given before surgery.
RCC August 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved the combination therapy of Opdivo and CABOMETYX* for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic RCC, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval. The approval is based on results from the Phase III Checkmate-9ER trial.
April 2021 Announced EC approval of Opdivo in combination with CABOMETYX* for the first-line treatment of adults with advanced RCC. The approval is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-9ER trial.
January 2021 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo in combination with CABOMETYX* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC. The approval is based on the Phase III CheckMate-9ER trial.

------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo + Yervoy CRC June 2021 Announced EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy for the treatment of adult patients with mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or microsatellite instability-high mCRC after prior fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy. The approval is based on results from the Phase II CheckMate-142 trial.
Melanoma May 2021 Announced new six-and-a-half year data from the Phase III CheckMate-067 trial demonstrating durable improvement in survival with first-line Opdivo plus Yervoy therapy and Opdivo monotherapy, versus Yervoy alone, in patients with advanced melanoma.
Esophageal September 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted the sBLA for Opdivo in combination with Yervoy and Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy as first-line treatments for adult patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The FDA assigned a PDUFA goal date of May 28, 2022. The sBLA submissions were based on the Phase III Checkmate-648 trial.
September 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the companies have submitted supplemental applications in Japan for Opdivo in combination with Yervoy and Opdivo in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of unresectable, advanced or recurrent esophageal cancer, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approvals in Japan. The applications are based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-648 trial.
August 2021 Announced that the EMA validated its MAA for both Opdivo in combination with Yervoy and Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy as first-line treatments for adult patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Validation of these applications confirm that the submissions are complete and begins the EMA’s centralized review process. The applications are based on results from the pivotal Phase III CheckMate-648 trial.
Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma September 2021 Announced three-year data from the CheckMate-743 trial that demonstrated a durable survival benefit with first-line treatment with Opdivo plus Yervoy compared to platinum-based standard-of-care chemotherapy in patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma, regardless of histology.
June 2021 Announced EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy for the first line treatment of adults with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. The approval is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-743 trial.
May 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the companies received approval for combination therapy of Opdivo and Yervoy in Japan for the first-line treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent malignant pleural mesothelioma, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval. The approval is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-743 trial.

67

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

--------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo + Yervoy RCC September 2021 Announced that Opdivo plus Yervoy continued to demonstrate durable, long-term survival in the Phase III CheckMate-214 trial, with a five-year survival rate of 48% in patients with previously untreated advanced or metastatic RCC. After a median follow-up of 67.7 months, Opdivo plus Yervoy maintained superior overall survival and response benefits versus sunitinib in both patients with intermediate- and poor-risk prognostic factors, the primary endpoint population, and across all randomized patients.
NSCLC May 2021 Announced that Part 1 of the Phase III CheckMate-227 trial continues to demonstrate the long-term survival benefits of first-line treatment with Opdivo plus Yervoy compared to chemotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC, regardless of PD-L1 expression level or histology, with a minimum follow-up of over four years.
May 2021 Announced that Opdivo plus Yervoy with two cycles of chemotherapy showed a durable survival benefit compared to four cycles of chemotherapy alone after two years of follow-up in previously untreated patients with advanced NSCLC in the Phase III CheckMate-9LA trial.
SCCHN July 2021 Announced an update on the Phase III CheckMate-651 trial comparing Opdivo plus Yervoy to the EXTREME regimen (cetuximab, cisplatin/carboplatin and fluorouracil) as a first-line treatment in platinum-eligible patients with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN. Although Opdivo plus Yervoy showed a clear, positive trend towards overall survival in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 with a combined positive score ≥ 20, the study did not meet its primary endpoints.

------- ----- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orencia aGvHD December 2021 Announced FDA approval of Orencia for the prevention, of aGvHD, in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor and methotrexate, in adults and pediatric patients two years of age and older undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from a matched or one allele-mismatched unrelated donor. The approval is based on results from the Phase II ABA2 trial.

------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reblozyl Beta Thalassemia December 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted for priority review the sBLA for Reblozyl for the treatment of anemia in adults with non-transfusion dependent beta thalassemia. The FDA has set a PDUFA goal date of March 27, 2022. The sBLA is based on results from the Phase II BEYOND trial.
December 2021 Announced that the EMA validated its MAA for Reblozyl for the treatment of anemia in adults with non-transfusion dependent beta thalassemia. Validation of the application confirms that the submission is complete and begins the EMA’s centralized review process. The application is based on results from the pivotal Phase II BEYOND trial.
June 2021 Announced with Acceleron, that Phase II BEYOND study evaluating Reblozyl plus best supportive care in adult patients with non-transfusion dependent beta thalassemia demonstrated that 77.7% of patients treated with Reblozyl achieved a hemoglobin increase (≥1.0 gram/deciliter) compared to 0% of patients in the placebo arm.

-------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia UC November 2021 Announced EC approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC who have had an inadequate response, lost response, or were intolerant to either conventional therapy or a biologic agent. The approval is based on data from the pivotal Phase III True North trial.
May 2021 Announced FDA approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC. The approval is based on data from the pivotal Phase III True North trial.
MS October 2021 Announced interim results from the Phase III open-label extension trial DAYBREAK, demonstrating the long-term efficacy and safety profile of Zeposia in patients with relapsing forms of MS. In the DAYBREAK extension study, safety was consistent with prior findings and no new safety signals emerged during the reporting period with long-term use of Zeposia. Treatment with Zeposia demonstrated a low annualized relapse rate of 0.103. At months 36 and 48, 75% and 71% of participants were relapse-free and 3- and 6-month confirmed disability progression was observed in 13.9% and 11.4% of participants in the trial, respectively.

------- ------------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inrebic Myelofibrosis February 2021 Announced EC approval of Inrebic for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly (enlarged spleen) or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis, who are JAK inhibitor naïve or have been treated with ruxolitinib.

------ --- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Onureg AML June 2021 Announced EC approval of Onureg as a maintenance therapy in adult patients with AML who achieved complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following induction therapy with or without consolidation treatment and who are not candidates for, including those who choose not to proceed to, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The approval is based on data from the Phase III QUAZAR AML-001 study.

68

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Breyanzi Lymphoma January 2022 Received a positive CHMP opinion of Breyanzi for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma grade 3B after two or more lines of systemic therapy. The opinion is based on data from the TRANSCEND NHL 001 trial.
June 2021 Announced positive topline results from the Phase III TRANSFORM trial evaluating Breyanzi as a second-line treatment in adults with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma compared to salvage therapy followed by high-dose chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Results of a pre-specified interim analysis conducted by an independent review committee showed the study met its primary endpoint of demonstrating a clinically meaningful and highly statistically significant improvement in event-free survival, as well as key secondary endpoints of complete response rate and progression-free survival compared to standard of care.
March 2021 Announced Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Breyanzi for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma1 and relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma.
February 2021 Announced FDA approval of Breyanzi, for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma not otherwise specified (including DLBCL arising from indolent lymphoma), high-grade B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma grade 3B.

----------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Abecma Multiple Myeloma January 2022 Announced Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Abecma for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody, and have either experienced disease progression on the last therapy or relapse after the last therapy. The approval is based on results from the Phase II BB2121-MM-001 and Phase I CRB-401 trials.
August 2021 Announced EC approval for Abecma for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody and have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. The approval is based on results from the pivotal KarMMa study.
March 2021 Announced with bluebird FDA approval of Abecma (idecabtagene vicleucel; ide-cel) for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma after four or more prior lines of therapy, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody. The approval is based on results from the pivotal Phase II KarMMA study.

---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
deucravacitinib UC October 2021 Announced the Phase II LATTICE-UC study evaluating deucravacitinib compared to placebo in moderate to severe UC did not meet the primary efficacy endpoint of clinical remission at Week 12, nor secondary efficacy endpoints. The safety profile of deucravacitinib was consistent with previously reported studies in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, and no new safety signals were observed. The potential of deucravacitinib in UC continues to be evaluated in IM011-127, a second Phase II trial that also includes a higher dose.
Plaque Psoriasis November 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted the NDA for deucravacitinib for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. The FDA has set a PDUFA goal date of September 10, 2022. The NDA is based on results from the Phase III POETYK PSO-1 and POETYK PSO-2 trials.
November 2021 Announced that the EMA validated its MAA for deucravacitinib for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Validation of the application confirms that the submission is complete and begins the EMA’s centralized review process. The application is based on results from the Phase III POETYK PSO-1 and POETYK PSO-2 trials.
November 2021 Announced Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has accepted the NDA for deucravacitinib for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, pustular psoriasis and erythrodermic psoriasis. The application is based on results from the Phase III POETYK PSO-1 and POETYK PSO-2 trials.
February 2021 Announced positive results from POETYK PSO-2, the second pivotal Phase III trial evaluating deucravacitinib (tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor) for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. POETYK PSO-2 met both co-primary endpoints versus placebo, with significantly more patients achieving Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75), defined as at least a 75 percent improvement of baseline PASI, and a static Physician's Global Assessment (sPGA) score of clear or almost clear (sPGA 0/1) after 16 weeks of treatment.

69

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
mavacamten Obstructive HCM November 2021 Announced that the FDA has extended the review of the NDA for mavacamten for the treatment of patients with symptomatic obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy to April 28, 2022 to allow sufficient time to review information pertaining to updates to the proposed REMS.
October 2021 Announced that the EMA validated its MAA for mavacamten for the treatment of patients with obstructive HCM. Validation of the application confirm that the submission is complete and begins the EMA’s centralized review process. The application is based on results from the pivotal Phase III EXPLORER-HCM trial.
May 2021 Announced a new analysis of data from the Phase III EXPLORER-HCM study evaluating mavacamten, an investigational, first-in-class cardiac myosin inhibitor, in patients with oHCM. At 30 weeks, the change in Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire Overall Summary Score (KCCQ OSS) was greater in mavacamten patients than placebo, with similar benefits across all KCCQ subscales
March 2021 Announced that the FDA accepted the NDA for mavacamten, an investigational, novel, oral, allosteric modulator of cardiac myosin, for patients with symptomatic obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The FDA has assigned a PDUFA goal date of January 28, 2022.

-------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
relatlimab Melanoma October 2021 Announced that the EMA validated its MAA for relatlimab and nivolumab fixed-dose combination for first-line treatment of adult and pediatric patients with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma. Validation of the application confirm that the submission is complete and begins the EMA’s centralized review process. The application is based on results from the pivotal Phase II/III RELATIVITY-047 trial.
September 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted for priority review the BLA for the fixed dose combination of relatlimab and nivolumab for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The FDA assigned a PDUFA goal date of March 19, 2022. The BLA submission was based on the Phase II/III RELATIVITY-047 trial.
March 2021 Announced primary results from the Phase II/III RELATIVITY-047 (CA224-047) trial evaluating the fixed-dose combination of relatlimab, an anti-LAG-3 antibody, and Opdivo versus Opdivo alone in patients with previously untreated metastatic or unresectable melanoma. The trial met its primary endpoint of progression-free survival. Follow up for overall survival, a secondary endpoint, is ongoing. The fixed-dose combination was well-tolerated and there were no new safety signals reported in either the relatlimab and Opdivo combination arm or the Opdivo arm.

70

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This 2021 Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements we make from time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “target,” “may,” “project,” “guidance,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and projections about our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives and involve inherent risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years, and could cause our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the statements. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things, our goals, plans and objectives regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products, our business development strategy and in relation to our ability to realize the projected benefits of our acquisitions of Celgene and MyoKardia, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and the development and commercialization of our products, potential laws and regulations to lower drug prices, market actions taken by private and government payers to manage drug utilization and contain costs, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, including assumptions about our ability to retain marketing exclusivity of certain products, and the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this 2021 Form 10-K, particularly under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.

Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. Additional risks that we may currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause the forward-looking events discussed in this 2021 Form 10-K not to occur. Except as otherwise required by federal securities law, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise after the date of this 2021 Form 10-K.

-------- -----------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Exhibit 99.2 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 99.2]

[Exhibit 10 to ]:
[Exhibit 10: ONCOLOGY]

['s impact on the U.S. and global economies, changes in the behavior of patients and medical professionals and the timing for resumption to our normal operations, as well as developments affecting healthcare and the delivery of medicines to patients. See “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—General Risks—The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting our business and could have a material adverse effect on us.”

As the COVID-19 pandemic affected global healthcare systems as well as major economic and financial markets, we adopted several procedures focused on ensuring the continued supply of our medicines to our patients and protecting the health, wellbeing and safety of our workforce:

Workplace and Community

•We are maintaining our steadfast commitment to protecting our workforce, communities and patients, and ensuring the continued supply of life-saving medicines.
•As a science-based company, we have a social responsibility to help reduce the spread of the virus. Vaccinations are required for generally all of our employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico subject to any local regulations which limit or restrict vaccine mandates, and we are encouraged that as of January 5, 2022 approximately 99% of our employees in these regions are vaccinated against COVID-19. Requests for medical or religious accommodations are also considered on an individual basis. Although local regulations and conditions in other ex-U.S. jurisdictions may limit or restrict vaccine mandates, we are committed to implementing similar requirements in other markets wherever possible.
•As we return workers to the office, we will continue to assess the need to require weekly asymptomatic testing, mask wearing, and physical distancing of all colleagues onsite at our facilities in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. We also keep our workforce safe by conducting regular deep cleaning of our sites.
•Our manufacturing sites have remained open throughout the pandemic supported by on site personnel. We have taken a thoughtful and phased approach to bringing the rest of our workforce back to our 195 plus sites around the world, guided by the following principles:
◦Serving the needs of our patients and customers
◦Prioritizing health and safety
◦Following medical advice and government direction
◦Leading with compassion and flexibility
◦Modeling key learnings
•No single approach fits for every site or market – our timelines and circumstances have varied across the globe. We are monitoring local conditions and government direction closely and adjusting our plans as appropriate.

Supply of Our Medicines and Support to Patients, Physicians and Advocacy Groups

•An important element of keeping our promise to patients, their families and our healthcare providers is to ensure that our supply chain is robust and carefully managed. Our clinical and commercial supply chain teams have proactively used mitigation plans to ensure our products reach our markets, clinical sites and patients over the past months. Thanks to these efforts, we have not seen any significant disruptions in our clinical or commercial supply chain due to the pandemic.
•We recognize this remains a challenging time for everyone, and we know patients may be facing additional hardships. Our existing patient support programs are available to help eligible patients in the U.S. who have been prescribed a Bristol Myers Squibb medicine and have lost employment and health insurance due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Under these programs, eligible patients are provided certain Bristol Myers Squibb medicines for free.
•All of our U.S. and Puerto Rico personnel are currently required to be vaccinated to interact with customers, vendors and people at our clinical trial sites. We are also continuing to employ remote interactions as appropriate to ensure continued support for healthcare professionals, patient care, and access to our medicines across our global markets.

41

Our Clinical Trials and Research

•We are working with health authorities and investigators to protect our trial participants and personnel at BMS and our clinical trial sites, while ensuring regulatory compliance and the integrity of our science.
•We have provided clinical trial investigators with overarching principles and guidance regarding the conduct of BMS clinical trials worldwide in light of COVID-19, and are taking into account guidance from health authorities, where applicable.

Governmental Actions

Our products continue to be subject to increasing pressures across the portfolio from pharmaceutical market access and pricing controls and discounting, changes to tax and importation laws and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world that result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and smaller populations for whom payers will reimburse, which can negatively impact our results of operations (including intangible asset impairment charges), operating cash flow, liquidity and financial flexibility. For example, Congress is currently considering a number of different proposals that would potentially: (i) allow the government to set or negotiate prices for prescription drugs, including benchmarking those prices to prices paid in other countries, (ii) penalize manufacturers for price increases beyond inflationary measures, (iii) redesign the Part D benefit with new out of pocket limits for patients and new mandated discounts for manufacturers, and (iv) change U.S. income tax laws resulting in an increase to our income tax expense, including through increased taxation of our international operations. The outcome of these Congressional actions remains highly uncertain. In addition, the OECD recently reached agreement on a global minimum tax pursuant to which countries are expected to implement changes to their tax laws and updates to international tax treaties. See risk factor on the Company’s risk factors on these items included under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—Product, Industry and Operational Risks—Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad continue to negatively affect our revenues and profit margins” and “—Changes to tax regulations could negatively impact our earnings.”

42

Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2021:

------- ---- --------
Product Date Approval

------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from a matched or one allele-mismatched unrelated donor.

------ ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo December 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for the treatment of cancer of unknown primary.

------ ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

------ ------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo November 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of esophageal cancer.

------- ------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia November 2021 EC approval for Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC.

------ ------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 metastatic gastric, gastroesophageal junction, or esophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 with a combined positive score ≥ 5.

------ -------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo September 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for first line gastric cancer and adjuvant esophageal cancer.

------ ----------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo August 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo for the treatment of pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma.

------ ----------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo August 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of the combination therapy Opdivo and CABOMETYX* for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic RCC.

------ ----------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 chemotherapy, nodal involvement or PD-L1 status.

------ ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody and have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy.

------ --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 chemoradiotherapy.

------------- --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 combination chemotherapy.

------ --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 therapy with or without consolidation treatment and who are not candidates for, including those who choose not to proceed to, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

------------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy June 2021 EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adults with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma.

------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia May 2021 FDA approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC.

------------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy May 2021 Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approval of Opdivo and Yervoy in combination therapy for the first-line treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent malignant pleural mesothelioma.

43

------- ---- --------
Product Date Approval

------ -------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 chemoradiotherapy.

------ ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 of PD-L1 expression status.

------ ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo April 2021 EC approval of Opdivo in combination with CABOMETYX* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC.

------ ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 a proteasome inhibitor, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody.

-------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 lymphoma.

------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis, who are Janus Associated Kinase inhibitor naïve or have been treated with ruxolitinib.

-------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Breyanzi February 2021 FDA approval of Breyanzi for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy.

------ ------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo January 2021 FDA approval of Opdivo in combination with CABOMETYX* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC.

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2022:
•In January 2022, Japan']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

['s PD-L1 antibody Tecentriq* in 2020.
•Investment income decreased in 2021 primarily due to lower interest rates.
•Reversion excise tax resulted from the transfer of the retiree medical plan assets back to the Company in 2020.

Income Taxes

-------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------ - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Earnings/(Loss) Before Income Taxes $ 8,098 $ (6,871)
Provision for Income Taxes 1,084 2,124
Effective Tax Rate 13.4 % (30.9) %

Impact of Specified Items 2.5 % 46.5 %
Effective Tax Rate Excluding Specified Items 15.9 % 15.6 %

The tax impact attributed to specified items was primarily due to low jurisdictional tax rates attributed to the unwinding of inventory purchase price adjustments and intangible asset amortization, IPRD impairment charges, contingent value rights fair value adjustments that are not taxable or deductible and internal transfers of intangible assets. In 2021, a $1.0 billion income tax benefit was recognized due to a revaluation of the tax basis of certain intangible and other assets that were internally transferred to streamline our legal entity structure subsequent to the Celgene acquisition. In 2020, an $853 million deferred tax charge resulting from an internal transfer of certain intangible assets to the U.S. to streamline our legal entity structure subsequent to the Celgene acquisition and an additional $266 million GILTI tax charge upon finalization of the Otezla* divestiture tax consequences with tax authorities was recognized. The 0.3% increase in the effective tax rate excluding specified items during 2021 was due to favorable discrete tax adjustments of approximately $140 million in 2020 primarily resulting from finalization of prior year tax returns, partially offset by jurisdictional earnings mix. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7. Income Taxes” for additional information.

56

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that are evaluated on an individual basis. These items are adjusted after considering their quantitative and qualitative aspects and typically have one or more of the following characteristics, such as being highly variable, difficult to project, unusual in nature, significant to the results of a particular period or not indicative of future operating results. Similar charges or gains were recognized in prior periods and will likely reoccur in future periods including (i) amortization of acquired intangible assets, including product rights that generate a significant portion of our ongoing revenue and will recur until the intangible assets are fully amortized, (ii) unwind of inventory purchase price adjustments, (iii) acquisition and integration expenses, (iv) restructuring costs, (v) accelerated depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, (vi) R&D charges or other income resulting from up-front or contingent milestone payments in connection with the acquisition or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights, (vii) divestiture gains or losses, (viii) stock compensation resulting from accelerated vesting of Celgene awards and certain retention-related employee compensation charges related to the Celgene transaction, (ix) pension, legal and other contractual settlement charges, (x) equity investment and contingent value rights fair value adjustments, including adjustments attributed to limited partnership equity method investments and (xi) amortization of fair value adjustments of debt acquired from Celgene in our 2019 exchange offer, among other items. Deferred and current income taxes attributed to these items are also adjusted for considering their individual impact to the overall tax expense, deductibility and jurisdictional tax rates. Certain other significant tax items are also excluded such as the impact resulting from internal transfers of intangible and other assets to streamline our legal entity structure subsequent to the Celgene acquisition and the GILTI tax charge upon finalization of the Otezla* divestiture in 2020. We also provide international revenues for our priority products excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We calculate foreign exchange impacts by converting our current-period local currency financial results using the prior period average currency rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current-period results. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K filed on February 4, 2022 and are incorporated herein by reference.

Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance, supplement or enhance management, analysts and investors’ overall understanding of our underlying financial performance and facilitate comparisons among current, past and future periods. For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators that we use as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be the same as or comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies due to possible differences in method and in the items being adjusted. We encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.

57

Specified items were as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ------- - ------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Inventory purchase price accounting adjustments $ 264 $ 2,688
Intangible asset impairment 315 575
Employee compensation charges — 4
Site exit and other costs 24 33
Cost of products sold 603 3,300

Employee compensation charges 1 275
Site exit and other costs 2 4
Marketing, selling and administrative 3 279

License and asset acquisition charges 980 1,003
IPRD impairments 840 470
Inventory purchase price accounting adjustments 1 36
Employee compensation charges 1 282
Site exit and other costs 1 115
Research and development 1,823 1,906

IPRD charge - MyoKardia acquisition — 11,438

Amortization of acquired intangible assets 10,023 9,688

Interest expense(a) (120) (159)
Contingent consideration (542) (1,757)
Royalties and licensing income (72) (168)
Equity investment gains (758) (1,156)
Integration expenses 564 717
Provision for restructuring 169 530
Litigation and other settlements — (239)
Reversion excise tax — 76
Divestiture gains (9) (55)
Loss on debt redemption 281 —
Other (income)/expense, net (487) (2,211)

Increase to pretax income 11,965 24,400

Income taxes on items above (1,122) (1,733)
Income taxes attributed to Otezla* divestiture — 266
Income taxes attributed to internal transfer of intangible assets (983) 853
Income taxes (2,105) (614)

Increase to net earnings $ 9,860 $ 23,786

(a)    Includes amortization of purchase price adjustments to Celgene debt.

58

The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- ------ - -------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2021 2020

Net Earnings/(Loss) Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — GAAP $ 6,994 $ (9,015)
Specified Items 9,860 23,786
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — Non-GAAP $ 16,854 $ 14,771

Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding – Diluted – GAAP 2,245 2,258
Incremental Shares Attributable to Share-Based Compensation Plans — 35
Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding — Diluted – Non-GAAP 2,245 2,293

Diluted Earnings/(Loss) Per Share Attributable to BMS — GAAP $ 3.12 $ (3.99)
Diluted EPS Attributable to Specified Items 4.39 10.43
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS — Non-GAAP $ 7.51 $ 6.44

Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our net debt position was as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------- ---- -------- - --------
 December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Cash and cash equivalents $ 13,979 $ 14,546
Marketable debt securities — current 2,987 1,285
Marketable debt securities — non-current — 433
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities 16,966 16,264
Short-term debt obligations (4,948) (2,340)
Long-term debt (39,605) (48,336)
Net debt position $ (27,587) $ (34,412)

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We regularly assess our anticipated working capital needs, debt and leverage levels, debt maturities, capital expenditure requirements, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and future investments or acquisitions in order to maximize shareholder return, efficiently finance our ongoing operations and maintain flexibility for future strategic transactions. We also regularly evaluate our capital structure to ensure financial risks, adequate liquidity access and lower cost of capital are efficiently managed, which may lead to the issuance of additional debt securities, the repurchase of debt securities prior to maturity or the issuance or repurchase of common stock. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities together with cash generated from operations and, if required, from the issuance of commercial paper will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for at least the next few years, including dividends, capital expenditures, milestone payments, working capital, restructuring initiatives, business development, repurchase of common stock, debt maturities of approximately $15.1 billion through 2025 as well as any debt repurchases through redemptions or tender offers.

We have a share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors allowing for repurchases of our shares. The specific timing and number of shares repurchased will be determined by our management at its discretion and will vary based on market conditions, securities law limitations and other factors. The share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of shares, does not have a specific expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The repurchases may be effected through a combination of one or more open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions and other derivative transactions, relying on Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. The outstanding share repurchase authorization under the program was $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2020. Our Board of Directors approved an increase to the share repurchase authorization of our common stock of $2.0 billion in January 2021 and $15.0 billion in December 2021. We repurchased approximately 102 million shares of our common stock for $6.2 billion in 2021. The remaining share repurchase capacity under the share repurchase program was approximately $15.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16. Equity” for additional information.

59

In February 2022, we executed accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreements to repurchase an aggregate $5.0 billion of our common stock. These ASR agreements were funded with cash on-hand and are expected to settle during the second and third quarters of 2022. The total number of shares to be repurchased under the ASR agreements will be based on volume-weighted average prices of our common stock during the terms of the ASR transactions less a discount and subject to adjustments pursuant to the terms and conditions of the ASR agreements..

Dividend payments were $4.4 billion in 2021 and $4.1 billion in 2020. Dividends are authorized on a quarterly basis by our Board of Directors.

Under our commercial paper program, we may issue a maximum of $5 billion unsecured notes that have maturities of not more than 366 days from the date of issuance. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2021.

In 2021, we purchased an aggregate principal amount of $3.5 billion of certain debt securities for approximately $4.0 billion of cash in a series of tender offers and “make whole” redemptions and $2.0 billion of notes matured and were repaid.

At December 31, 2021, we had four separate revolving credit facilities totaling $6.0 billion, which consisted of a 364-day $2.0 billion facility which expired in January 2022, a three-year $1.0 billion facility which expired in January 2022 and two five-year $1.5 billion facilities that were extended to September 2025 and July 2026, respectively. No borrowings were outstanding under any revolving credit facility at December 31, 2021 or 2020.

In January 2022, we entered into a five-year $5.0 billion facility expiring in January 2027, which is extendable annually by one year with the consent of the lenders. This facility provides for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and may be used to provide backup liquidity for our commercial paper borrowings. Concurrently with the entry into this facility, the commitments under our existing five-year $1.5 billion facilities were terminated and the three-year $1.0 billion facility and 364-day $2.0 billion facility expired in accordance with their terms in January 2022.

Our investment portfolio includes marketable debt securities, which are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our investment policy establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” for further information.

Capital Expenditures

Annual capital expenditures were approximately $970 million in 2021, $750 million in 2020 and $800 million in 2019 and are expected to be approximately $1.2 billion in both 2022 and 2023. We continue to make capital expenditures in connection with the expansion of our cell therapy and other manufacturing capabilities, research and development and other facility-related activities.

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. Information regarding our obligations relating to debt, income taxes and lease arrangements are provided in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7. Income Taxes”, “—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” and “—Note 13. Leases”, respectively.

We are committed to an aggregate $21.1 billion of potential contingent future research and development milestone payments to third parties for in-licensing, asset acquisitions and development programs including early-stage milestones of $7.4 billion (milestones achieved through Phase III clinical studies) and late-stage milestones of $13.7 billion (milestones achieved post Phase III clinical studies). Payments generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Certain agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating to $15.0 billion that we would be obligated to pay upon achievement of certain sales levels in addition to royalties. We also have certain manufacturing, development and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of these obligations. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Alliances” for further information regarding our alliances.

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to our financial condition or results of operations.

60

Credit Ratings

Our current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Moody’s Investors Service are A2 and Prime-1, respectively, with a stable long-term credit outlook, and our current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poor’s are A+ and A-1, respectively with a negative long-term credit outlook. The long-term ratings reflect the agencies’ opinion that we have a low default risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. The short-term ratings reflect the agencies’ opinion that we have good to extremely strong capacity for timely repayment. Any credit rating downgrade may affect the interest rate of any debt we may incur, the fair market value of existing debt and our ability to access the capital markets generally.

Cash Flows

The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:

-------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- -------- - ------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2021 2020
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 16,207 $ 14,052
Investing activities (538) (10,859)
Financing activities (16,224) (1,151)

Operating Activities

Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements from all of our activities other than investing and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of operations. As a result, changes in cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance partners; payments to suppliers, alliance partners and employees; customer discounts and rebates; and tax payments in the ordinary course of business.

The $2.2 billion change in cash flow from operating activities compared to 2020 was primarily due to higher cash collections and timing of payments in the ordinary course of business, lower Celgene restructuring and integration payments ($400 million) and cash settlement of MyoKardia unvested stock awards in 2020 ($500 million), partially offset by reversion of post-retirement plan assets ($300 million) in 2020.

Investing Activities

Cash requirements from investing activities include cash used for acquisitions, manufacturing and facility-related maturity of marketable securities, sale of equity investments and upfront and contingent milestones from licensing arrangements.

The $10.3 billion change in cash flow from investing activities compared to 2020 was due to lower licensing and asset acquisition payments of $11.5 billion primarily resulting from the MyoKardia acquisition in 2020 and higher proceeds from sales of equity investments of approximately $2.4 billion in 2021, partially offset by changes in the amount of marketable debt securities held of $3.4 billion.

Financing Activities

Cash requirements from financing activities include cash used to pay dividends, repurchase common stock and repay long-term debt and other borrowings reduced by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of long-term debt and other borrowings.

The $15.1  repayments of $3.3 billion, including a series of tender offer and “make whole” redemptions, and higher share repurchases of $4.7 billion in 2021.

61

SEC Consent Order

As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.

Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit including: (a) establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.

We have established a company-wide policy concerning our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent, which includes the adoption potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis.

We maintain third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.

We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

For recently issued accounting standards, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards.”

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on to revise information or actual experience.

62

The following categories of GTN adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external sources. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2. Revenue” for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of GTN sales adjustments.

Charge-backs and cash discounts

Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower program attributable to a sale (typically within a two to four week time lag).

In the U.S. and certain other countries, customers are offered cash discounts as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of the invoiced sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of cash discount at the time of sale and the discount is typically taken by the customer within one month.

Medicaid and Medicare rebates

Our U.S. business participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid plans. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability.

Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription in the coverage gap. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments

Other GTN sales adjustments include or an aggregation of all companies participating in a specific market. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Estimated returns for established products levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand. The estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability.

Use of information from external sources

Information from external they sell, such as retailers and hospitals.

We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology for internal demand is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.

63

Long-lived Assets

Intangible Assets Valuations

A significant amount of the purchase price for the Celgene acquisition was allocated to intangible assets, including acquired marketed product rights and IPRD assets. Our intangible assets were $42.5 billion as of December 31, 2021 and $53.2 billion as of December 31, 2020.

Identifiable as of the acquisition date. The fair value of these assets were estimated using discounted cash flow models. These models required the use of the following significant estimates and assumptions among others:

•Identification of product candidates with sufficient substance requiring separate recognition;
•Estimates of revenues and operating profits related to commercial products or product candidates;
•Eligible patients, pricing and market share used in estimating future revenues;
•Probability of success for unapproved product candidates and additional indications for commercial products;
•Resources required to complete the development and approval of product candidates;
•Timing of regulatory approvals and exclusivity;
•Appropriate discount rate by products;
•Market participant income tax rates; and
•Allocation of expected synergies to products.

We believe the estimated and preliminary fair value assigned to intangible assets acquired used reasonable estimates and assumptions considering the facts and circumstances as of the acquisition date.

Impairment and Amortization of Long-lived Assets, including Intangible Assets

Long-lived assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable or at least annually for IPRD. Intangible assets are to its fair value. Expectations of future cash flows are subject to change based upon the near and long-term production volumes and margins generated by the asset as well as any potential alternative periodically reviewed for changes in facts or circumstances resulting in a reduction to the estimated useful life of the asset, requiring the acceleration of depreciation or amortization. In 2021, an and Other Intangible Assets” for further discussion and analysis of these impairment charges.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill was $20.5 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020.

We assess the goodwill balance within our single reporting unit annually and whenever events include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities and acts by governments and courts.

64

Income Taxes

Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $2.7 billion at December 31, 2021 (net of valuation allowances of $1.1 billion) and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2020 (net of valuation allowances of $2.8 billion).

The U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards were $585 million at December 31, 2021. These carryforwards were acquired as a result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2021 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).

Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson & Company to a limited liability company. These transactions as well Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions.

Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value.

In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (“ELA”) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009.

We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement, including certain tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets.

Liabilities are established represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.

For discussions on income taxes, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Income Taxes” and “—Note 7. Income Taxes.”

Contingencies

In the normal course of business, we are be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.

For discussions on contingencies, refer Contingencies.”

65

Product and Pipeline Developments

Our R&D programs are managed on a portfolio basis from early discovery through late-stage development and include a balance of early-stage and late-stage are obtained and products are successfully commercialized. The following are the developments in our marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 of prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy, nodal involvement or PD-L1 status. The approval is based on the Phase III CheckMate-274 trial.
March 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the The application is based on results from the global Phase III CheckMate-274 (ONO-4538-33) trial.
March 2021 Announced that the EMA validated the type II variation application for Opdivo for the adjuvant treatment of patients with surgically resected, high-risk muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma. The application is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-274 trial.
Gastric and Esophageal Cancers November 2021 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the Japan']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Refer to Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[included in Exhibit 99.2]:
[Reference to Exhibit 99.2]