================================================================================
CIK: 0000723125
Company Name: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC
Filing Date: 2023-10-06
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 15:04:53
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview – Industry Conditions” and “Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Debt.” If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to service our debt payment obligations or satisfy our debt covenants, we may need to refinance, restructure, or amend the terms of our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may be unable to meet our debt payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.

Across our global operations, significant transactions and balances are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (our reporting currency), primarily the Chinese yuan, euro, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, New Taiwan dollar, and Singapore dollar. In addition, a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in foreign currencies. Exchange rates for some of these currencies against the U.S. dollar have been volatile and may be volatile in future periods. If these currencies strengthen against the U.S. dollar, our manufacturing costs could significantly increase. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar that adversely change against our foreign currency exposures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.

 38

Table of Contents

We are subject to counterparty default risks.

We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash deposits, investments, and derivative instruments. Additionally, we are subject to counterparty default risk from our customers for amounts receivable from them. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty will default on its performance obligations. A counterparty may not comply with its contractual commitments which could then lead to its defaulting on its obligations with little or no notice to us, which could limit our ability to mitigate our exposure. Additionally, our ability to mitigate our exposures may be constrained by the terms of our contractual arrangements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action. If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty’s default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of such default, we could incur significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.

The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.

Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, we, the technology industry, and the stock market as a whole have on occasion experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to the specific operating performance of individual companies. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely due to various factors, including, but not limited to, actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results, changes in financial forecasts or estimates by us or financial or other market estimates and ratings by securities and other analysts, changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public, interest rate changes, regulatory changes, news regarding our products or products of our competitors, and broad market and industry fluctuations.

For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future trading prices of our common stock, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Investors in our common stock may not realize any return on their investment in us and may lose some or all of their investment. Volatility in the trading price of our common stock could also result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources.

The amount and frequency of our share repurchases may fluctuate, and we cannot guarantee that we will fully consummate our share repurchase authorization, or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our stock and will diminish our cash reserves.

The amount, frequency, and execution of our share repurchases pursuant to our share repurchase authorization may fluctuate based on our operating results, cash flows, and priorities for the use of cash for other purposes. Our expenditures for share repurchases were $425 million in 2023, $2.43 billion in 2022, $1.20 billion in 2021. These other purposes include, but are not limited to, operational spending, capital spending, acquisitions, and repayment of debt. Other factors, including changes in tax laws, could also impact our share repurchases. Although our Board of Directors has authorized share repurchases of up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock, the authorization does not obligate us to repurchase any common stock.

We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase authorization will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value. The repurchase authorization could affect the trading price of our stock and increase volatility, and any announcement of a pause in, or termination of, this program may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. In addition, this program will diminish our cash reserves.

There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends in any particular amounts or at all.

Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we currently pay a cash dividend on our common shares on a quarterly basis. The declaration and payment of any dividend is subject to the approval of our Board of Directors and our dividend may be discontinued or reduced at any time. There can be no assurance that we will declare cash dividends in the future in any particular amounts, or at all.

39 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

Future dividends, if any, and their timing and amount, may be affected by, among other factors: our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, debt service obligations, contractual restrictions, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Our corporate headquarters are located in Boise, Idaho. In addition to our principal facilities described below, we own or lease numerous other facilities in locations throughout the world used for design, R&D, and sales and marketing activities. The following is a summary of our principal facilities as of August 31, 2023:

------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Location Principal Operations

Taiwan R&D, wafer fabrication, component assembly and test, module assembly and test
Singapore R&D, wafer fabrication, component assembly and test, module assembly and test
Japan R&D, wafer fabrication
United States R&D, wafer fabrication, reticle manufacturing
Malaysia Component assembly and test, module assembly and test
China Component assembly and test, module assembly and test

We believe that our existing facilities are suitable and adequate for our present purposes. We generally utilize all of our manufacturing capacity; however, a portion of our facilities were underutilized for 2023 due to industry conditions. See “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview – Industry Conditions” for information regarding our current underutilization.

 40

Table of Contents

To support expected memory demand in the second half of the decade, we will need to add new DRAM wafer capacity. Following the enactment of the CHIPS Act in 2022, we announced plans to invest in two leading-edge memory manufacturing fabs in the United States, contingent on CHIPS Act support through grants and investment tax credits. As part of this plan, in September 2022, we broke ground on a leading-edge memory manufacturing fab in Boise, Idaho. Construction of the fab began in October 2023 with DRAM production targeted to start in calendar 2025 and first output in early calendar 2026. In addition, in October 2022, we announced plans to build a second leading-edge DRAM manufacturing fab in Clay, New York. We expect construction to begin in calendar 2024, with production anticipated to ramp in the latter half of the decade. We expect these new fabs to fulfill our requirements for additional wafer capacity starting in the second half of the decade and beyond, in line with industry demand trends. On August 21, 2023 we announced that two of our subsidiaries had each submitted full applications on August 18, 2023 for federal funding in the form of grants under the CHIPS Act for both of these projects.

We are also advancing our global back-end assembly and test network in order to support our product portfolio and extend our ability to deliver on global customer demand in the future. We intend to make investments at our backend facility in Xi’an, China, including a new building to provide space to add more product capability, to allow us over time to serve more of the demand from our customers in China from the Xi’an facility. We also intend to build a new assembly and test facility in Gujarat, India to address demand in the latter half of this decade.

We do not identify or allocate assets by operating segment, other than goodwill. For a breakout of the carrying value of our long-lived assets by geographic area see “Part II – Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Geographic Information.”

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part II – Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Contingencies” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

SEC regulations require disclosure of certain proceedings related to environmental matters unless we reasonably believe that the related monetary sanctions, if any, will be less than a specified threshold. We use a threshold of $1 million for this purpose.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market Information

Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbol “MU.”

Holders of Record

As of September 29, 2023, there were approximately 1,719 shareholders of record of our common stock. A substantially greater number of holders of our common stock are "street name" or beneficial holders, whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers, and other financial institutions.

41 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

Dividends

On September 27, 2023, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.115 per share, payable in cash on October 25, 2023, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 10, 2023.

We currently expect quarterly dividends to continue in future periods and aim to grow our dividend payments over time. However, the declaration and payment of any future cash dividends are at the discretion and subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors' decisions regarding the amount and payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, debt service obligations, contractual restrictions, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to pay a dividend in any future period.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the information to be included in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the section entitled “Equity Compensation Plan Information,” which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after August 31, 2023.

Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities

Common Stock Repurchase Authorization

In 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the discretionary repurchase of up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock through open-market purchases, block trades, privately-negotiated transactions, derivative transactions, and/or pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The repurchase authorization has no expiration date, does not obligate us to acquire any common stock, and is subject to market conditions and our ongoing determination of the best use of available cash. During the quarter ended August 31, 2023, we did not repurchase any common stock under the authorization and as of August 31, 2023, $3.11 billion of the authorization remained available for the repurchase of our common stock.

Shares of common stock withheld as payment of withholding taxes and exercise prices in connection with the vesting or exercise of equity awards are also treated as common stock repurchases. Those withheld shares of common stock are not required to be disclosed under Item 703 of Regulation S-K and accordingly are excluded from this Item 5.

 42

Table of Contents

Performance Graph

The following graph illustrates a five-year comparison of cumulative total returns for our common stock, the S&P 500 Composite Index, and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (SOX) from August 31, 2018, through August 31, 2023. We operate on a 52 or 53-week fiscal year which ends on the Thursday closest to August 31. Accordingly, the last day of our fiscal year varies. For consistent presentation and comparison to the industry indices shown herein, we have calculated our stock performance graph assuming an August 31 year end.

Note: Management cautions that the stock price performance information shown in the graph above may not be indicative of current stock price levels or future stock price performance.

The performance graph above assumes $100 was invested on August 31, 2018 in common stock of Micron Technology, Inc., the S&P 500 Composite Index, and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (SOX). Any dividends paid during the period presented were assumed to be reinvested. The performance was plotted using the following data:

-------------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- -- --- - --- - --- - ---
 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023

Micron Technology, Inc. $ 100 $ 86 $ 87 $ 140 $ 108 $ 135
S&P 500 Composite Index 100 103 125 165 146 169
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (SOX) 100 110 168 257 204 283

ITEM 6. [RESERVED]

43 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended August 31, 2023. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. Fiscal 2023, 2022, and 2021 each contained 52 weeks. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions, except per share amounts.

Overview

For an overview of our business, see “Part I – Item 1. Business – Overview.”

Industry Conditions

The memory and storage industry environment deteriorated sharply in the fourth quarter of 2022 and throughout 2023 due to weak demand in many end markets combined with global and macroeconomic challenges and lower demand resulting from customer actions to reduce inventory levels. This led to significant reductions in average selling prices for both DRAM and NAND and bit shipments for DRAM, resulting in declines in revenue across all our business segments and nearly all our end markets. Due to the challenging pricing environment, we recognized charges of $1.83 billion in 2023 to write down inventories to their estimated net realizable value. Ongoing demand growth, customer inventory normalization, and industry-wide supply discipline have set the stage for increased revenue, and improved pricing and profitability throughout fiscal 2024. As a result, pricing trends have started to improve and there were no write downs of inventories to net realizable value in the fourth quarter of 2023. However, further write-downs of inventories in future quarters could occur if pricing expectations deteriorate. Given the challenging pricing environment, elevated levels of inventories for suppliers and customers, and significant supply-demand mismatch, we expect industry profitability will remain challenged into 2024.

As a result of these conditions and increases in our inventory levels, we have reduced capital expenditures and also significantly reduced wafer starts in 2023 for both DRAM and NAND. We expect wafer starts will remain significantly below peak capacity levels for the foreseeable future as we remain focused on managing down our inventories and controlling our supply. We recognized period costs from fabrication facility underutilization of $382 million in 2023 due to wafer start reductions. We estimate that we will recognize approximately $200 million of period costs from underutilization due to wafer start reductions in the first quarter of 2024. We have also taken significant steps to reduce our costs and operating expenses. These actions include the 2023 Restructure Plan discussed below and additional reductions in external spending, including implementing productivity programs across the business, suspension of our 2023 bonus company-wide, reductions in select product programs, lower discretionary spending, and cuts to 2023 executive salaries across the company.

Impact of China Cyberspace Administration Decision

On March 31, 2023, China’s Cyberspace Administration (the “CAC”) notified us that it was conducting a cybersecurity review of our products sold in China. On May 21, 2023, we received notice that the CAC had concluded its review and decided that our products presented a cybersecurity risk. As such, the CAC determined that critical information infrastructure operators in China may not purchase Micron products. There is no list of the companies that have been designated as critical information infrastructure operators published by the Chinese government or otherwise available to us. Therefore, the full impact of the CAC decision on our business remains uncertain.

 44

Table of Contents

The CAC decision has impacted our business, particularly in the domestic data center and networking markets in China. In addition, although demand for DRAM and NAND is improving as customer inventory levels continue to normalize and secular growth drivers remain intact, the CAC decision continues to impact our revenue opportunity in China. This significant headwind is impacting our outlook and slowing our recovery. We are working to mitigate this impact over time and expect quarter-to-quarter revenue variability. Our revenue with companies headquartered in mainland China and Hong Kong, including direct sales as well as indirect sales through distributors, is approximately a quarter of our worldwide revenue and remains our principal exposure to the CAC decision. Although the impact of the CAC decision remains uncertain, we believe that approximately half of that China-headquartered customer revenue, which equates to a low-double-digit percentage of our worldwide revenue, is at risk of being impacted. Despite the near-term impact to our demand as a result of the CAC decision, our long-term goal is to retain our worldwide DRAM and NAND market share.

2023 Restructure Plan

We initiated a restructure plan in response to challenging industry conditions (the “2023 Restructure Plan”). Under the plan, we expect our headcount reduction to approach 15% by the end of calendar 2023, through a combination of voluntary attrition and personnel reductions. In connection with the plan, we incurred restructure charges of $171 million in 2023 primarily related to employee severance costs. The 2023 Restructure Plan was substantially completed in 2023. As a result of the 2023 Restructure Plan, we expect to realize cost savings of approximately $130 million per quarter (approximately 60% in cost of goods sold, 30% in R&D, and 10% in SG&A) subsequent to 2023. Further information on restructure activities can be found in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Restructure and Asset Impairments.”

Lehi, Utah Fab and 3D XPoint

In 2021, we updated our portfolio strategy to further strengthen our focus on memory and storage innovations for the data center market. In connection therewith, we determined that there was insufficient market validation to justify the ongoing investments required to commercialize 3D XPoint at scale. Accordingly, we ceased development of 3D XPoint technology and engaged in discussions for the sale of our facility located in Lehi, Utah that was dedicated to 3D XPoint production. As a result, we classified the property, plant, and equipment as held for sale in 2021, ceased depreciating the assets, and recognized a $435 million restructure and asset impairment charge and a $104 million tax benefit.

We closed the sale of our Lehi facility to TI in 2022 for $893 million and disposed of $918 million of net assets, consisting primarily of property, plant, and equipment, resulting in a $23 million loss, net of selling expenses and other adjustments.

45 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

Results of Operations

Consolidated Results

------------------------------------------------------ ------- ------- ---- ---- ------ - ------ - ------ - --- ------ --- -
For the year ended 2023 2022 2021

Revenue $ 15,540 100 % $ 30,758 100 % $ 27,705 100 %
Cost of goods sold 16,956 109 % 16,860 55 % 17,282 62 %
Gross margin (1,416) (9) % 13,898 45 % 10,423 38 %

Research and development 3,114 20 % 3,116 10 % 2,663 10 %
Selling, general, and administrative 920 6 % 1,066 3 % 894 3 %
Restructure and asset impairments 171 1 % 48 — % 488 2 %
Other operating (income) expense, net 124 1 % (34) — % 95 — %
Operating income (loss) (5,745) (37) % 9,702 32 % 6,283 23 %

Interest income (expense), net 80 1 % (93) — % (146) (1) %
Other non-operating income (expense), net 7 — % (38) — % 81 — %
Income tax (provision) benefit (177) (1) % (888) (3) % (394) (1) %
Equity in net income (loss) of equity method investees 2 — % 4 — % 37 — %
Net income (loss) $ (5,833) (38) % $ 8,687 28 % $ 5,861 21 %

Total Revenue: Total revenue for 2023 was adversely impacted by the factors described in the section titled “Industry Conditions” above. Total revenue for 2023 decreased 49% as compared to 2022 primarily due to decreases in sales of both DRAM and NAND products.

•Sales of DRAM products decreased 51% primarily due to a high-40s percent range decline in average selling prices and decreases in bit shipments in the high-single-digit percent range.
•Sales of NAND products decreased 46% primarily due to a low-50s percent range decline in average selling prices partially offset by increases in bit shipments in the high-single-digit percent range.

Total revenue for 2022 increased 11% as compared to 2021 primarily due to increases in sales of both DRAM and NAND products.

•Sales of DRAM products increased 12% primarily due to increases in bit shipments of slightly over 10%.
•Sales of NAND products increased 11% primarily due to a high-single-digit percent increase in bit shipments and a low-single-digit percent increase in average selling prices.

Consolidated Gross Margin: Our consolidated gross margin has been adversely impacted by the factors described in the section titled “Industry Conditions” above. Our consolidated gross margin percentage decreased to negative 9% for 2023 from 45% for 2022 primarily due to declines in average selling prices for both DRAM and NAND and charges to write down inventories (as detailed in “Inventory NRV write-downs” below), and $382 million of facility underutilization costs in 2023.

Inventory NRV write-downs: Our consolidated gross margin was impacted by charges to write down inventories to their estimated net realizable value as a result of declines in average selling prices for both DRAM and NAND. As charges to write down inventories are recorded in advance of when inventories are sold, costs of goods sold in subsequent periods are lower than they otherwise would be. The impact of inventory NRV write-downs for each period reflects (1) inventory write-downs in that period, offset by (2) lower costs in that period on the sale of inventory written down in prior periods. The impacts of inventory NRV write-downs are summarized below:

 46

Table of Contents

---------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- - - - -
For the year ended 2023 2022 2021

Provision to write down inventory to NRV $ (1,831) $ — $ —
Lower costs from sale of inventory written down in prior periods 844 — —
 $ (987) $ — $ —

Our consolidated gross margin percentage increased to 45% for 2022 from 38% for 2021, as a result of improvements in margins for both DRAM and NAND products, primarily due to reductions in manufacturing costs. Manufacturing cost reductions were driven by strong execution in ramping our 1α DRAM and 176-layer NAND technology nodes. For 2021, our gross margins included the impact of underutilization costs at MTU of $335 million. See “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Lehi, Utah Fab and 3D XPoint.” Also, effective as of the beginning of the second quarter of 2021, we changed our method of inventory costing from average cost to first-in, first-out (“FIFO”). Concurrently, as of the beginning of the second quarter of 2021, we modified our inventory cost absorption processes used to estimate inventory values, which affects the timing of when costs are recognized. These changes resulted in a one-time increase to cost of goods sold of approximately $293 million in 2021.

Revenue by Business Unit

------------------ ----- ------ ---- -- ----- ------ ------ - ----- ------ -- ------ -- -
For the year ended 2023 2022 2021

CNBU $ 5,710 37 % $ 13,693 45 % $ 12,280 44 %
MBU 3,630 23 % 7,260 24 % 7,203 26 %
EBU 3,637 23 % 5,235 17 % 4,209 15 %
SBU 2,553 16 % 4,553 15 % 3,973 14 %
All Other 10 — % 17 — % 40 — %
 $ 15,540 $ 30,758 $ 27,705

Percentages of total revenue may not total 100% due to rounding.

Changes in revenue for each business unit for 2023 as compared to 2022 were as follows:

•CNBU revenue decreased 58% primarily due to declines in average selling prices for DRAM and decreases in bit shipments.
•MBU revenue decreased 50% primarily due to declines in average selling prices for both DRAM and NAND and decreases in NAND bit shipments.
•EBU revenue decreased 31% primarily due to declines in average selling prices for both DRAM and NAND and decreases in bit shipments.
•SBU revenue decreased 44% primarily due to declines in average selling prices for NAND partially offset by increases in bit shipments.

Changes in revenue for each business unit for 2022 as compared to 2021 were as follows:

•CNBU revenue increased 12% primarily due to increases in bit shipments to cloud, enterprise, and networking markets.
•MBU revenue was relatively unchanged as both DRAM and NAND revenue was relatively flat.
•EBU revenue increased 24% primarily due to strong demand growth in industrial and automotive markets.
•SBU revenue increased 15% primarily due to higher average selling prices and increases in shipments of SSD products.

47 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

Operating Income (Loss) by Business Unit

------------------ ------- ------- ---- ---- ----- ------ ----- - ----- ----- -- ----- -- -
For the year ended 2023 2022 2021

CNBU $ (585) (10) % $ 5,844 43 % $ 4,295 35 %
MBU (1,750) (48) % 2,160 30 % 2,173 30 %
EBU 382 11 % 1,752 33 % 1,006 24 %
SBU (1,887) (74) % 513 11 % 173 4 %
All Other 8 80 % 12 71 % 20 50 %
 $ (3,832) $ 10,281 $ 7,667

Percentages reflect operating income (loss) as a percentage of revenue for each business unit.

Changes in operating income or loss for each business unit for 2023 as compared to 2022 were as follows:

•CNBU operating income (loss) deteriorated primarily due to declines in average selling prices and lower bit shipments.
•MBU operating income (loss) deteriorated primarily due to declines in average selling prices and lower NAND bit shipments.
•EBU operating income decreased primarily due to declines in average selling prices and lower bit shipments.
•SBU operating income (loss) deteriorated primarily due to declines in average selling prices.

Changes in operating income or loss for each business unit for 2022 as compared to 2021 were as follows:

•CNBU operating income increased primarily due to higher bit shipments and manufacturing cost reductions.
•MBU operating income was relatively unchanged as slight increases in gross margins were offset by higher operating expenses.
•EBU operating income increased primarily due to manufacturing cost reductions from an increasing mix of leading-edge bits, higher bit shipments, and improved DRAM pricing in industrial and consumer markets, partially offset by higher R&D expenses.
•SBU operating income increased primarily due to improved product mix driving increases in average selling prices, increases in SSD shipments, and manufacturing cost reductions, partially offset by higher R&D expenses.

Operating Expenses and Other

Research and Development: R&D expenses vary primarily with the number of development and pre-qualification wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs. Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture our products, we typically begin to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing. Development of a product is deemed complete when it is qualified through internal reviews and tests for performance and reliability. R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification.

R&D expenses for 2023 were relatively unchanged as compared to 2022 as decreases in employee compensation were offset by higher depreciation expense. R&D expenses for 2022 increased 17% as compared to 2021 primarily due to higher employee compensation from increases in headcount, higher volumes of development and prequalification wafers, and higher depreciation expense.

Selling, General, and Administrative: SG&A expenses for 2023 were 14% lower as compared to 2022 primarily due to decreases in employee compensation, legal fees, advertising, and professional services. SG&A expenses for 2022 were 19% higher as compared to 2021 primarily due to increases in employee compensation, professional services, and legal fees.

Restructure and Asset Impairments: For a discussion of restructure and asset impairments, see the Overview sections above titled “2023 Restructure Plan” and “Lehi, Utah Fab and 3D XPoint.”

 48

Table of Contents

Interest Income (Expense), Net: Interest income (expense) improved for 2023 as compared to 2022 primarily as a result of increases in interest income due to higher interest rates on our cash and investments, partially offset by increases in interest expense due to higher debt balances and interest rates. Interest income (expense) improved for 2022 as compared to 2021 primarily due to an increase of $59 million in interest income as a result of increases in interest rates on our cash and investments.

Income Taxes: Our income tax (provision) benefit consisted of the following:

------------------------------ ----- ------- ----- - ----- - - -----
For the year ended 2023 2022 2021

Income (loss) before taxes $ (5,658) $ 9,571 $ 6,218
Income tax (provision) benefit (177) (888) (394)
Effective tax rate (3.1) % 9.3 % 6.3 %

The change in our effective tax rate for 2023 as compared to 2022 was primarily due to a pre-tax loss in 2023. Despite a consolidated pre-tax loss on a worldwide basis, we have taxes payable in certain geographies due to minimum taxable income reportable in those geographies. Our effective tax rate increased in 2022 as compared to 2021 primarily due to the geographic mix of our earnings and a valuation allowance recorded against our Idaho deferred tax assets of $189 million, partially offset by tax impacts of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside the United States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements. These incentives expire, in whole or in part, at various dates through 2034 and are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. As a result of a loss before taxes and geographical mix of income, the benefit from tax incentive arrangements was not material for 2023. The effect of tax incentive arrangements reduced our tax provision by $1.12 billion (benefiting our diluted earnings per share by $1.00) for 2022 and by $758 million ($0.66 per diluted share) for 2021.

Beginning in 2024, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 imposes a 15% book minimum tax on corporations with three-year average annual adjusted financial statement income exceeding $1 billion. The impact of this tax will depend on our facts in each year, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other developing global tax legislation.

Various tax reforms are being considered in multiple jurisdictions that, if enacted, contain provisions that could materially impact our tax expense. We continue to monitor the potential impact of these various tax reform proposals to our overall global effective tax rate and financial statements.

Other: Further information can be found in the following notes contained in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”:

•Lehi, Utah Fab and 3D XPoint
•Goodwill
•Equity Plans
•Restructure and Asset Impairments
•Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net
•Other Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net
•Income Taxes

49 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations and financing obtained from capital markets and financial institutions. Cash generated from operations is highly dependent on selling prices for our products, which can vary significantly from period to period. Cash and marketable investments totaled $10.44 billion as of August 31, 2023, and $10.98 billion as of September 1, 2022. Our cash and investments consist primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, and liquid investment-grade, fixed-income securities, which are diversified among industries and individual issuers. To mitigate credit risk, we invest through high-credit-quality financial institutions and by policy generally limit the concentration of credit exposure by restricting the amount of investments with any single obligor. As of August 31, 2023, $2.45 billion of our cash and marketable investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries.

We continuously evaluate alternatives for efficiently funding our capital expenditures and ongoing operations. We expect, from time to time, to engage in a variety of financing transactions for such purposes, including the issuance of securities. As of August 31, 2023, $2.50 billion was available to draw under our Revolving Credit Facility. On March 27, 2023, we entered into amendments to the Multi-Tranche Term Loan Agreement and the agreements governing the Revolving Credit Facility and the 2024 Term Loan A to revise the leverage ratio covenant in each such agreement, as further described in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Debt.” Funding of certain significant capital projects is also dependent on the receipt of government incentives, which are subject to conditions and may not be obtained.

To develop new product and process technology, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies, and maintain product quality, we must continue to invest in manufacturing technologies, facilities and equipment, and R&D. We estimate capital expenditures in 2024 for property, plant, and equipment, net of partner contributions, to be slightly above $7 billion. Actual amounts for 2024 will vary depending on market conditions. As of August 31, 2023, we had purchase obligations of approximately $915 million for the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment, of which approximately $812 million is expected to be paid within one year. For a description of other contractual obligations, such as leases, debt, and commitments, see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Leases,” “ – Debt,” and “ – Commitments.”

To support expected memory demand in the second half of the decade, we will need to add new DRAM wafer capacity. Following the enactment of the CHIPS Act in 2022, we announced plans to invest in two leading-edge memory manufacturing fabs in the United States, contingent on CHIPS Act support through grants and investment tax credits. As part of this plan, in September 2022, we broke ground on a leading-edge memory manufacturing fab in Boise, Idaho. Construction of the fab began in October 2023 with DRAM production targeted to start in calendar 2025 and first output in early calendar 2026. In addition, in October 2022, we announced plans to build a second leading-edge DRAM manufacturing fab in Clay, New York. We expect construction to begin in calendar 2024, with production anticipated to ramp in the latter half of the decade. We expect these new fabs to fulfill our requirements for additional wafer capacity starting in the second half of the decade and beyond, in line with industry demand trends. On August 21, 2023 we announced that two of our subsidiaries had each submitted full applications on August 18, 2023 for federal funding in the form of grants under the CHIPS Act for both of these projects.

We are also advancing our global back-end assembly and test network in order to support our product portfolio and extend our ability to deliver on global customer demand in the future. We intend to make investments at our backend facility in Xi’an, China, including a new building to provide space to add more product capability, to allow us over time to serve more of the demand from our customers in China from the Xi’an facility. We also intend to build a new assembly and test facility in Gujarat, India to address demand in the latter half of this decade.

Our Board of Directors has authorized the discretionary repurchase of up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock through open-market purchases, block trades, privately-negotiated transactions, derivative transactions, and/or pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The repurchase authorization has no expiration date, does not obligate us to acquire any common stock, and is subject to market conditions and our ongoing determination of the best use of available cash. Through August 31, 2023, we had repurchased an aggregate of $6.89 billion of the authorized amount. See “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Equity.”

 50

Table of Contents

On September 27, 2023, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.115 per share, payable in cash on October 25, 2023, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 10, 2023. The declaration and payment of any future cash dividends are at the discretion and subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors' decisions regarding the amount and payment of dividends will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, debt service obligations, contractual restrictions, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.

We expect that our cash and investments, cash flows from operations, and available financing will be sufficient to meet our requirements at least through the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.

Cash Flows

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ----- -------- - -------- - ------
For the year ended 2023 2022 2021

Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,559 $ 15,181 $ 12,468
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities (6,191) (11,585) (10,589)
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 4,983 (2,980) (1,781)
Effect of changes in currency exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (34) (106) 41
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 317 $ 510 $ 139

Operating Activities: Cash provided by operating activities reflects net income (loss) adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation expense, amortization of intangible assets, inventory write-downs, asset impairments, and stock-based compensation, and the effects of changes in operating assets and liabilities. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for 2023 as compared to 2022 was primarily due to a net loss in the current year adjusted for non-cash items and the effect of an increase in inventories and a decline in accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by a decrease in receivables.

The increase in cash provided by operating activities for 2022 as compared to 2021 was primarily due to higher net income adjusted for non-cash items and the effect of lower receivables, partially offset by an increase in inventories.

Investing Activities: For 2023, net cash used for investing activities consisted primarily of $7.68 billion of expenditures for property, plant, and equipment; contributions of $710 million received from partners to offset capital expenditures; and $868 million of net inflows from maturities, sales, and purchases of available-for-sale securities.

For 2022, net cash used for investing activities consisted primarily of $12.07 billion of expenditures for property, plant, and equipment; contributions of $115 million received from partners to offset capital expenditures; $888 million of net inflows from the sale of the Lehi, Utah fab; and $155 million of net outflows from purchases, sales, and maturities of available-for-sale securities.

For 2021, net cash used for investing activities consisted primarily of $10.03 billion of expenditures for property, plant, and equipment, partially offset by contributions of $502 million received from partners to offset capital expenditures, and $1.06 billion of net outflows from purchases, sales, and maturities of available-for-sale securities.

Financing Activities: For 2023, net cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of $3.20 billion of proceeds from our 2025, 2026, and 2027 Term Loan A borrowings, $1.27 billion from the issuance of the 2029 B Notes, $896 million from the issuance of the 2033 B Notes, $749 million from the issuance of the 2033 A Notes, and $599 million from the issuance of the 2028 Notes. Cash used for financing activities included $761 million for repayments of debt, $504 million for payments of dividends to shareholders, $425 million for the acquisition of 8.6 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase authorization, and $138 million of payments on equipment purchase contracts.

51 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

For 2022, net cash used for financing activities included $2.43 billion for the acquisition of 35.4 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase authorization, $2.03 billion of repayments of debt primarily to redeem the 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes, $461 million of cash payments of dividends to shareholders, and $141 million of payments on equipment purchase contracts. Cash used for financing activities was partially offset by aggregate proceeds of $2.00 billion from the issuance of the unsecured 2032 Green Bonds, 2041 Notes, and 2051 Notes.

For 2021, net cash used for financing activities consisted primarily of $1.20 billion for the acquisition of 15.6 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase authorization, $295 million of payments on equipment purchase contracts, $185 million of cash payments to settle conversions of our 2032D Notes, and $147 million of repayments of finance leases and other debt. In addition, we received proceeds of $1.19 billion under an unsecured 2024 Term Loan A and used the proceeds to repay the $1.19 billion Extinguished 2024 Term Loan A.

See “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Debt.”

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions and involve a significant level of uncertainty. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our management believes the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments.

Contingencies: We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired, and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In accounting for the resolution of contingencies, significant judgment may be necessary to estimate amounts pertaining to periods prior to the resolution that are charged to operations in the period of resolution and amounts related to future periods.

Goodwill: We test goodwill for impairment in our fourth quarter each year, or more frequently if indicators of an impairment exist, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit with goodwill is less than its carrying value. For reporting units for which this assessment concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value is more than its carrying value, goodwill is considered not impaired, and we are not required to perform the goodwill impairment test. Qualitative factors considered in this assessment include industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, and other relevant events and factors affecting the fair value of the reporting unit. For reporting units for which this assessment concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value, goodwill is tested for impairment by determining the fair value of each reporting unit and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is considered not impaired. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we recognize an impairment loss up to the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value. We recognized a charge of $101 million in 2023 to impair all of the goodwill assigned to our SBU reporting unit based on our quantitative assessment for impairment in the current year. The quantitative assessment indicated that the fair value for all of our other reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying value.

 52

Table of Contents

Determining when to test for impairment, the reporting units, the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, and the fair value of the reporting unit requires significant judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates, forecasted manufacturing costs, and other expenses and are developed as part of our long-range planning process. The same estimates are used in business planning, forecasting, and capital budgeting as part of our long-term manufacturing capacity analysis. These estimates and assumptions are used to calculate projected future cash flows for the reporting unit, which are discounted using a risk-adjusted rate to estimate a fair value. The discount rate requires determination of appropriate market comparables. We base fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We assess the reasonableness of our methodology, forecasts, and assumptions by comparing the aggregate calculated fair value for our reporting units to our market capitalization.

Income taxes: We are required to estimate our provision for income taxes and amounts ultimately payable or recoverable in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. These estimates involve significant judgment and interpretations of regulations and are inherently complex. Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for many years after completion of the applicable year. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the assessment of our performance and other relevant factors. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. Our income tax provision or benefit is dependent, in part, on our ability to forecast future taxable income in Japan, Malaysia, the United States, Taiwan, and other jurisdictions. Such forecasts are inherently difficult and involve significant judgments including, among others, projecting future average selling prices and sales volumes, manufacturing and overhead costs, levels of capital spending, and other factors that significantly impact our analyses of the amount of net deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be realized.

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost being determined on a first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) basis. Cost includes depreciation, labor, material, and overhead costs, including product and process technology costs. Determining net realizable value of finished goods and work in process inventories involves significant judgments, including projecting future average selling prices, future sales volumes, and future cost per part. To project average selling prices and sales volumes, we review recent sales volumes, existing customer orders, current contract prices, industry analyses of supply and demand, and general economic trends. To project cost per part, we review trends with historical results and consider known changes in our cost structure as applicable. Actual selling prices may vary significantly from projected prices due to the volatile nature of the semiconductor memory and storage markets. When these analyses reflect estimated net realizable values below our manufacturing costs, we record a charge to cost of goods sold in advance of when inventories are actually sold. As a result, the timing of when product costs are charged to costs of goods sold can vary significantly. Differences in future average selling prices used in calculating lower of cost or net realizable value adjustments can result in significant changes in the estimated net realizable value of finished goods and work in process inventories and accordingly the amount of write-down recorded. For example, a 5% decrease in future average selling prices would have changed the estimated net realizable value of our finished goods and work in process inventories by approximately $600 million as of August 31, 2023.

U.S. GAAP provides for products to be grouped into categories in order to compare costs to net realizable values. The amount of any inventory write-down can vary significantly depending on the determination of inventory categories. We review the major characteristics of product type and markets in determining the unit of account for which we perform the lower of cost or net realizable value analysis and categorize all inventories (including DRAM, NAND, and other memory) as a single group.

Property, plant, and equipment: We periodically assess the estimated useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment based on technology node transitions, capital spending, and equipment re-use rates. We also review the carrying value of property, plant, and equipment for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and/or disposition. In cases where undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the assets. The estimate of future cash flows involves numerous assumptions which require significant judgment by us, including, but not limited to, future use of the assets for our operations versus sale or disposal of the assets, future selling prices for our products, and future production and sales volumes.

53 | 2023 10-K

Table of Contents

Revenue recognition: Revenue is primarily recognized at a point in time when control of the promised goods is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods. Contracts with our customers are generally short-term in duration at fixed, negotiated prices with payment generally due shortly after delivery. We estimate a liability for returns using the expected value method based on historical returns. In addition, we generally offer price protection to our distributors, which is a form of variable consideration that decreases the transaction price. We use the expected value method, based on historical price adjustments and current pricing trends, to estimate the amount of revenue recognized from sales to distributors. Differences between the estimated and actual amounts are recognized as adjustments to revenue.

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards

No material items.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

No material items.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35
