================================================================================
CIK: 0001156375
Company Name: CME GROUP INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-27
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 13:23:51
================================================================================

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
INTRODUCTION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is organized as follows:
•Executive Summary: Includes an overview of our business; current economic, competitive and regulatory trends relevant to our business; our current business strategy; and our primary sources of operating and non-operating revenues and expenses.
•Critical Accounting Policies: Provides an explanation of accounting policies that may have a significant impact on our financial results and the estimates, assumptions and risks associated with those policies.
•Results of Operations: Includes an analysis of our 2022 financial results and a discussion of any known events or trends that are likely to impact future results.
•Liquidity and Capital Resources: Includes a discussion of our future cash requirements, capital resources, significant planned expenditures and financing arrangements.
References in this discussion and analysis to "we" and "our" are to CME Group Inc. (CME Group) and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. References to "exchange" are to Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. (CME), the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. (CBOT), New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. (NYMEX) and Commodity Exchange, Inc. (COMEX), collectively, unless otherwise noted.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Business Overview
CME Group, a Delaware stock corporation, is the holding company for CME, CBOT, NYMEX, COMEX, NEX and their respective subsidiaries. The holding company structure is designed to provide strategic and operational flexibility. CME Group's Class A common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) under the ticker symbol "CME."
Our exchange consists of designated contract markets for the trading of futures and options contracts. We also clear futures, options and swaps contracts through our clearing house. Futures contracts, options contracts and swaps contracts provide investors with vehicles for protecting against, and potentially profiting from, price changes in financial instruments and physical commodities.
We are a global company with customer access available virtually all over the world. Our customers consist of professional traders, financial institutions, individual and institutional investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers, governments and central banks. Customers include both members of the exchange and non-members.
We offer our customers the opportunity to trade futures contracts and options contracts on a range of products, including those based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, agricultural commodities, energy and metals. Through our cash markets business, we offer fixed income trading through BrokerTec and foreign currency trading through EBS. Our products provide a means for hedging, speculating and allocating assets. We identify new products by monitoring economic trends and their impact on the risk management and speculative needs of our existing and prospective customers.
Most of our products are available for trading through our electronic trading platforms. These execution facilities offer our customers immediate trade execution and price transparency. In addition, trades can be executed through privately negotiated transactions that are cleared and settled through our clearing house.
Prior to September 2021, we provided optimization services that delivered transaction lifecycle management and information services to help our customers optimize their capital, mitigate their risk and reduce operational costs. Optimization services included Traiana, TriOptima and Reset. In September 2021, we contributed the net assets of our optimization business to OSTTRA, our joint venture with IHS Markit (later acquired by S&P Global).
Our clearing house clears, settles and guarantees futures and options contracts traded through our exchanges, in addition to cleared swaps products. Our clearing house's performance guarantee is an important function of our business. Because of this guarantee, our customers do not need to evaluate the credit of each potential counterparty or limit themselves to a selected set of counterparties. This flexibility increases the potential liquidity available for each trade. Additionally, the substitution of our clearing house as the counterparty to every transaction allows our customers to establish a position with one party and offset the position with another party. This contract offsetting process provides our customers with flexibility in establishing and adjusting positions and provides for collateral and margining efficiencies. Certain BrokerTec contracts are cleared at third-party clearing houses.

30

Table of Contents
Business Trends
Economic Environment. Our customers continue to use our markets as an effective and transparent means to manage risk and meet their investment needs. Trading activity in our centralized markets has fluctuated due to the ongoing uncertainty in the financial markets, fluctuations in the availability of credit, variations in the amount of assets under management as well as the Federal Reserve Bank’s interest rate policy and quantitative easing. We continue to maintain high quality and diverse products as well as various clearing and market data services, which support our customers in any economic environment.
Competitive Environment. Our industry is competitive and we continue to encounter competition in all aspects of our business. We expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of ongoing regulatory reform in the financial services industry. Competition is influenced by our brand and reputation; the efficiency and security of our settlement, clearing and support services; depth and liquidity of our markets; diversity of product offerings, including frequency and quality of new product development and innovative services; our ability to position and expand upon existing products to address changing market needs; efficient and seamless customer experience; transparency, reliability, anonymity and security of transaction processing; the regulatory environment; connectivity, accessibility, flexibility in execution methods and distribution; and technology capability and innovation, as well as overall transaction costs. We believe we are very well positioned with respect to these factors. Our asset classes contain products designed to address differing risk management needs, and customers are able to achieve operational and capital efficiencies by accessing our diverse products through our platforms and our clearing house. We compete in a large and expanding financial services trading, clearing and settlement marketplace globally. As markets continue to evolve, we will continue to adapt our trading technology and clearing services to meet the needs of our customers. The competitive environment to which we are subject is discussed in "Item 1 - Business" beginning on page 10.
Regulatory Environment. Our exchange-traded derivatives exchanges and other businesses are regulated and we serve a customer base that includes regulated institutions and individuals. Developments in the regulatory environment have the potential to significantly impact our business. Compliance with regulations may require us and our customers to dedicate significant financial and operational resources, which could adversely affect our profitability. The regulatory environment to which we are subject is discussed in "Item 1 - Business" beginning on page 11.
Business Strategy
Our strategy focuses on maximizing futures and options growth globally, diversifying our business and revenues and delivering unparalleled customer efficiencies and operational excellence, including through our partnership with Google Cloud. This strategy allows us to continue to develop into a more broadly diversified financial exchange that provides trading and clearing solutions across a wide range of products and asset classes. Our strategic initiatives are discussed in "Item 1 - Business" beginning on page 7.
Revenues
Clearing and transaction fees. A majority of our revenue is derived from clearing and transaction fees, which include electronic trading fees, surcharges for privately negotiated transactions and other volume-related charges for exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) contracts. Because clearing and transaction fees are assessed on a per-contract or notional value basis, revenues and profitability fluctuate with changes in contract volume. In addition to the business trends noted earlier, our contract volume, and consequently our revenues, tend to increase during periods of economic and geopolitical uncertainty as our customers seek to manage their exposure to, or speculate on, the market volatility resulting from that uncertainty.
While volume has the most significant impact on our clearing and transaction fees revenue, there are four other factors that also influence this source of revenue:
•rate structure;
•product mix;
•venue; and
•the percentage of trades executed by customers who are members compared with non-member customers.
Rate structure. Customers benefit from volume discounts and limits on fees as part of our effort to increase liquidity in certain products. We offer various incentive programs to promote trading and clearing in various products and geographic locations. We may periodically change fees, volume discounts, fee limits and member discounts, perhaps significantly, based on our review of operations and the business environment.
Product mix. We offer exchange-traded futures and options contracts as well as cleared-only interest rate swap contracts. We also offer foreign exchange spot and forward contracts and fixed income products. Rates are varied by product in order to optimize revenue on existing products and to encourage contract volume upon introduction of new products.
Venue. Our exchange and platforms are an international marketplace that brings together buyers and sellers mainly through our electronic trading as well as through open outcry trading and privately negotiated transactions. Any customer who is guaranteed by a clearing firm and who agrees to be bound by our exchange rules is able to obtain direct access to our

31

Table of Contents
electronic platforms. Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members, who may execute trades on behalf of customers or for themselves. Beginning in May 2021, open outcry trading is now limited to Eurodollar options and Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) options products following the permanent closure of most of our open outcry pits.
Typically, customers submitting trades through our electronic platforms are charged fees for using the platforms in addition to the fees assessed on all transactions executed on our exchange. Customers entering into privately negotiated transactions also incur additional charges beyond the fees assessed on other transactions.
Member/non-member mix. Generally, member customers are charged lower fees than our non-member customers. Holding all other factors constant, revenue decreases if the percentage of trades executed by members increases, and increases if the percentage of non-member trades increases.
Clearing and transaction fees for cash markets business. Our cash markets business provides matching services whereby we match a buyer and seller of financial instruments to allow both parties to complete the trade bilaterally or through a third-party clearing house. We are not involved in the settlement of the contract but charge a transaction fee generally based on volume or notional value of the trade for providing the matching service. BrokerTec Americas also generates revenue from a matched principal business. This business serves as a fully matched counterparty to offsetting positions entered into by clients on our electronic trading platform to facilitate anonymity and access to clearing and settlement. Revenue is generated from this business generally on a transaction fee basis.
Other sources. Revenue is also derived from other sources, including market data and information services and other various services related to our exchange operations.
Market data and information services. We receive market data and information services revenue from the dissemination of our market data to subscribers. Subscribers can obtain access to our market data services either directly or through third-party distributors.
Our service offerings include access to real-time, delayed and end-of-day quotations, trade and summary market data for our products and other data sources. Users of our basic service receive real-time quotes and pay a flat monthly fee for each screen, or device, displaying our market data. Alternatively, customers can subscribe to market data provided on a limited group of products. The fee for this service is also a flat rate per month.
Pricing for our market data services is based on the value of the service provided and the price of comparable services offered by our competitors. Increases or decreases in our market data and information services revenue are influenced by changes in our price structure and incentive programs for existing market data offerings, introduction of new market data services and changes in the number of devices in use. General economic factors that affect the financial services industry, which constitutes our primary customer base, also influence revenue from our market data services.
Other revenues. Other revenue includes access and communication fees. Access and communication fees are connectivity fees charged to members and clearing firms that utilize our various telecommunications networks and communications services. Our communication services include our co-location program as well as the connectivity charges to customers of the CME Globex platform. Access fee revenue varies depending on the type of connection provided to customers.
Prior to the contribution of the net assets of our optimization business to OSTTRA, other revenues included revenues from our optimization services, which included fees for risk management and information services for the OTC markets, including portfolio reconciliation and post-trade processing. Revenue earned from these services was typically generated through subscriptions or transaction fees.
Other revenues also include fees for collateral management, equity subscription fees and fees for trade order routing through agreements from various strategic relationships as well as other services to members and clearing firms.
Expenses
The majority of our expenses do not vary directly with changes in our contract volume. However, licensing and other fee agreements can vary directly with certain equity, energy and swap volumes, and the majority of our employee bonuses vary indirectly with overall contract volume, as bonuses are primarily based on our financial performance.
Compensation and benefits. Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant expense and includes employee wages, bonuses, stock-based compensation, benefits and employer taxes. Changes in this expense are driven by fluctuations in the number of employees, increases in wages as a result of labor market conditions, changes in rates for employer taxes and other cost increases affecting benefit plans. In addition, this expense is affected by the composition of our workforce. The expense associated with our bonus and stock-based compensation plans can also have a significant impact on this expense category.

32

Table of Contents
The bonus component of our compensation and benefits expense is based on our financial performance. Under the performance criteria of our annual incentive plans, the bonus funded under the plans is based on achieving certain financial performance targets established by the compensation committee of our board of directors. The compensation committee has discretion to make equitable adjustments to the cash earnings performance calculation to reflect effects of unplanned operating results or capital expenditures to meet intermediate- to long-term growth opportunities.
In general, stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense related to restricted stock and performance share grants. Stock-based compensation varies depending on the quantity and fair value of awards granted. The fair value of restricted stock awards and other performance share grants is based on either the share price on the date of the grant or a model of expected future stock prices.
Professional fees and outside services. This expense includes fees for consulting services received on strategic and technology initiatives; regulatory and other compliance matters; temporary labor as well as legal and accounting fees. This expense may fluctuate as a result of changes in services required to complete initiatives, handle legal proceedings and comply with regulatory and compliance requirements.
Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense results from the depreciation of long-lived assets such as buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment. This expense also includes the amortization of purchased and internally developed software.
Amortization of purchased intangibles. Amortization of purchased intangibles includes amortization of intangible assets obtained in our acquisitions of CBOT Holdings, Inc., NYMEX Holdings, Inc. and NEX as well as other asset and business acquisitions. Intangible assets subject to amortization consist primarily of clearing firm, market data and other customer relationships.
Other expenses. We incur additional ongoing expenses for communications, technology support services and various other activities necessary to support our operations.
•Technology expense consists of costs related to maintenance of the hardware and software required to support our technology. It also includes costs for network connections for our electronic platforms and some market data customers; telecommunications costs of our exchange, and fees paid for access to external market data. This expense may be driven by system capacity, cloud consumption, functionality and redundancy requirements. It also may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume and changes in the number of telecommunications hubs and connections which allow customers outside the U.S. to access our electronic platforms directly.
•Licensing and other fee agreements expense includes license fees paid as a result of contract volume in equity index products. This expense also includes royalty fees and broker rebates on energy and metals products, as well as revenue sharing on cleared swaps contracts and some new product launches. This expense fluctuates with changes in contract volumes as well as changes in fee structures.
•Other expenses include occupancy and building operations expenses including rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities and other related costs related to leased property in Chicago, New York, the U.K., and India, as well as other smaller locations throughout the world. Other expenses also include marketing and travel-related expenses as well as general and administrative costs. Marketing, advertising and public relations expense includes media, print and other advertising costs, as well as costs associated with our product promotion. Other expenses also include litigation and customer settlements, impairment charges on operating assets, gains and losses on disposals of certain operating assets, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on certain foreign monetary assets and liabilities.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Income and expenses incurred through activities outside of our core operations are considered non-operating. These activities include non-core investing and financing activities.
•Investment income includes income from short-term investment of clearing firms' cash performance bonds and guaranty fund contributions as well as excess operating cash; interest income and realized gains and losses from our marketable securities; realized gains and losses and dividend income from our strategic equity investments, and gains and losses on trading securities in our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. Investment income is influenced by market interest rates, changes in the levels of cash performance bonds deposited by clearing firms, the amount of dividends distributed by our strategic investments and the availability of funds generated by operations.
•Interest and other borrowing costs expense includes charges associated with various short-term and long-term funding facilities, including commitment fees on lines of credit agreements.

33

Table of Contents
•Equity in net earnings (losses) of unconsolidated subsidiaries includes income and losses from our investments in S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, OSTTRA, Shanghai CFETS-NEX International Money Broking Co., Ltd. and Dubai Mercantile Exchange.
•Other income (expense) includes expenses related to the distribution of a portion of interest earned on performance bond collateral reinvestment to the clearing firms, gains and losses on derivative contracts and other various income and expenses outside our core operations.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The notes to our consolidated financial statements include disclosure of our significant accounting policies. In establishing these policies within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., management must make certain assessments, estimates and choices that will result in the application of these principles in a manner that appropriately reflects our financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies are those policies that we believe present the most complex or subjective measurements and have the most potential to affect our financial position and operating results. While all decisions regarding accounting policies are important, there are certain accounting policies that we consider to be critical. These critical policies, which are presented in detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, relate to the valuation of financial instruments, goodwill and intangible assets, revenue recognition, income taxes and internal use software costs.
Valuation of financial instruments. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, or an exit price. We have categorized financial instruments measured at fair value into the following three-level fair value hierarchy based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure the fair value:
•Level 1 inputs, which are considered the most reliable evidence of fair value, consist of quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
•Level 2 inputs consist of observable market data, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, or inputs other than quoted prices that are directly observable.
•Level 3 inputs consist of unobservable inputs, which are derived and cannot be corroborated by market data or other entity-specific inputs.
For further discussion regarding the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, see note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and note 17. Fair Value Measurements to the consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill and intangible assets. We review goodwill for impairment on a quarterly basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill may be tested quantitatively for impairment by comparing the carrying value of a reporting unit to its estimated fair value. Estimating the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of valuation techniques that rely on significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions may include forecasted revenue growth rates; forecasted operating margins; risk-adjusted discount rates; forecasted economic and market conditions; and industry multiples. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable given the information that is available to us at the time of our assessment; however, actual future results may differ significantly from those estimates. Under certain favorable circumstances, goodwill may be reviewed qualitatively for indications of impairment without utilizing valuation techniques to estimate fair value. The qualitative assessment of goodwill may rely on significant assumptions about forecasts of revenue growth, operating margins and economic conditions as well as overall market and industry-specific trends. In addition, the carrying value of goodwill, as denominated in foreign currencies, is adjusted each reporting period as a result of movements in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Such foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within shareholders' equity.
We also review indefinite-lived intangible assets on a quarterly basis or more frequently when events and circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable. Indefinite-lived intangible assets may be tested quantitatively for impairment by comparing their carrying values to their estimated fair values. Estimating the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets involves the use of valuation techniques that rely on significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions may include forecasted revenue growth rates, forecasted allocations of expense and risk-adjusted discount rates. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable given the information that is available to us at the time of our assessment; however, actual future results may differ significantly from those estimates. Similar to goodwill, under certain favorable circumstances, indefinite-lived intangible assets may be reviewed qualitatively for indications of impairment without utilizing valuation techniques to estimate fair value. The qualitative assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets may rely on significant assumptions about forecasts of revenue growth, operating margins and economic conditions as well as overall market and industry-specific trends.
Intangible assets subject to amortization are also assessed for impairment on a quarterly basis or more frequently when indicated by a change in economic or operational circumstances. The impairment assessment of these assets requires management to first compare the carrying value of the amortizing asset to its undiscounted net cash flows. If the carrying value

34

Table of Contents
exceeds the undiscounted net cash flows, management is then required to estimate the fair value of the assets and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. In connection with this impairment assessment, management also challenges the useful lives of our definite-lived intangible assets.
Revenue recognition. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the clearing and transaction fees we assess on each contract executed through our trading venues and cleared through our clearing house. Clearing and transaction fees are recognized as revenue when a buy and sell order are matched, novated and when the trade is cleared. On occasion, the customer's exchange trading privileges may not be properly entered by the clearing firm and incorrect fees are charged for the transactions in the affected accounts. When this information is corrected within the time period allowed by the exchange, a fee adjustment is provided to the clearing firm. A reserve is established for estimated fee adjustments to reflect corrections to customer exchange trading privileges. This reserve has historically been immaterial. The reserve is based on the historical pattern of adjustments processed as well as management's estimate of future adjustment activity.
Income taxes. Calculation of the income tax provision includes an estimate of the income taxes that will be paid for the current year, as well as an estimate of income tax liabilities or benefits deferred into future years. Deferred tax assets are reviewed to determine if they will be realized in future periods. To the extent it is determined that some deferred tax assets may not be fully realized, the assets are reduced to their realizable value by a valuation allowance. The calculation of our tax provision involves uncertainty in the application of complex tax regulations and we occasionally may consult with relevant tax authorities or engage third-party expertise where appropriate. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other applicable foreign tax jurisdictions using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold based on the technical merits of the tax position taken or expected to be taken. If the actual obligation of these amounts varies from our estimate, our income tax provision would be reduced or increased at the time that determination is made. This determination may not be known for several years. Past tax audits have not resulted in tax adjustments that resulted in a material change to the income tax provision in the year the audit was completed. The effective tax rate, defined as the income tax provision as a percentage of income before income taxes, will vary from year to year based on changes in tax jurisdictions, tax rates and regulations. In addition, the effective tax rate will vary with changes to income that are not subject to income tax and changes in expenses or losses that are not deductible, such as the utilization of foreign net operating losses.
Internal use software costs. Certain internal and external costs that are incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use are capitalized. We also enter into software hosting arrangements for software projects maintained or developed in the cloud. Software development costs incurred during the planning or maintenance stages of a software project are expensed as incurred, while certain costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and are amortized over the estimated useful life of the software, which is generally two to four years, but up to eight years for certain trading and clearing applications, depending upon expected useful lives. Amortization of capitalized costs begins only when the software becomes ready for its intended use. In addition, software assets are assessed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable or that a reduction in the estimated useful lives is warranted.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Financial Highlights
The following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the years presented. For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 to December 31, 2020, see "Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2022.

----------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- - ------- --------------------- --- ---- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(dollars in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Total revenues $ 5,019.4 $ 4,689.7 7 %
Total expenses 2,003.5 2,044.5 (2)
Operating margin 60.1 % 56.4 %
Non-operating income (expense) $ 474.4 $ 728.4 (35)
Effective tax expense rate 22.9 % 21.8 %
Net income attributable to CME Group $ 2,691.0 $ 2,636.4 2
Diluted earnings per common share attributable to CME Group 7.40 7.29 2
Cash flows from operating activities 3,056.0 2,402.4 27

35

Table of Contents
Revenues

------------------------------------ ----- ------- ---- ----- - ------- --------------------- ---- -- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(dollars in millions) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Clearing and transaction fees $ 4,142.7 $ 3,765.1 10 %
Market data and information services 610.9 576.9 6
Other 265.8 347.7 (24)
Total Revenues $ 5,019.4 $ 4,689.7 7

Clearing and Transaction Fees
Futures and Options
The following table summarizes our total contract volume, revenue and average rate per contract for futures and options. Total contract volume includes contracts that are traded on our exchange and cleared through our clearing house and certain cleared-only contracts. Volume is measured in round turns, which is considered a completed transaction that involves a purchase and an offsetting sale of a contract. Average rate per contract is determined by dividing total clearing and transaction fees by total contract volume. Contract volume and average rate per contract disclosures below exclude trading volume for the cash markets business as well as interest rate swaps.

------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- - ------- --------------------- --- - --
 Year-over-Year Change
 2022 2021 2022-2021
Total contract volume (in millions) 5,846.0 4,942.7 18 %
Clearing and transaction fees (in millions) $ 3,758.5 $ 3,306.3 14
Average rate per contract 0.643 0.669 (4)

We estimate the following net increase in clearing and transaction fees based on a change in total contract volume and a change in average rate per contract during 2022 compared with 2021.

--------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -----
 Year-over-Year Change
(in millions) 2022-2021
Increase due to change in total contract volume $ 580.7
Decrease due to change in average rate per contract (128.5)
Net increase in clearing and transaction fees $ 452.2

Average rate per contract is impacted by our rate structure, including volume-based incentives, product mix, trading venue and the percentage of volume executed by customers who are members compared with non-member customers. Due to the relationship between average rate per contract and contract volume, the change in clearing and transaction fees attributable to changes in each is only an approximation.

36

Table of Contents
Contract Volume
The following table summarizes average daily contract volume. Contract volume can be influenced by many factors, including political and economic factors, the regulatory environment and market competition.

------------------------------------------------- ------ - ------ -- - --------------------- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Average Daily Volume by Product Line:
Interest rates 10,818 9,200 18 %
Equity indexes 7,650 5,517 39
Foreign exchange 987 799 24
Agricultural commodities 1,289 1,362 (5)
Energy 2,026 2,188 (7)
Metals 521 548 (5)
Aggregate average daily volume 23,291 19,614 19

Average Daily Volume by Venue:
CME Globex 21,712 18,318 19
Open outcry 800 679 18
Privately negotiated 779 617 26

Aggregate average daily volume 23,291 19,614 19
Electronic Volume as a Percentage of Total Volume 93 % 93 %

Interest rate, equity, and foreign exchange volatility were higher in 2022 when compared with 2021 as result of a change in market expectations and uncertainty regarding the Federal Reserve's interest rate policy amid higher than expected inflation levels. The Federal Open Market Committee raised the Federal Funds rate by a total of 425 percentage points in 2022 and has indicated that it intends to further raise interest rates in the near future. The Federal Reserve also began quantitative tightening in the second half of 2022 by reducing its holdings of U.S. Treasury securities. However, the geopolitical uncertainty between Russia and Ukraine led to risk aversion and reduced trading by market participants within the agricultural commodity and energy markets due to global commodity trade uncertainty. We believe these factors led to the changes in contract volume during 2022, when compared with 2021.
Interest Rate Products
The following table summarizes average daily contract volume for our key interest rate products. Eurodollar front 8 contracts include contracts expiring within two years. Eurodollar back 32 contracts include contracts expiring within three to ten years.

---------------------------------- ----- ----- --------------------- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Eurodollar futures and options:
Futures expiring within two years 1,100 1,291 (15) %
Options 833 1,059 (21)
Futures expiring beyond two years 440 1,085 (59)
SOFR futures and options:
Futures expiring within two years 1,479 145 n.m.
Futures expiring beyond two years 282 13 n.m.
Options 440 36 n.m.
U.S. Treasury futures and options:
10-Year 2,497 2,495 —
5-Year 1,543 1,278 21
2-Year 682 459 48
Treasury Bond 503 580 (13)
Federal Funds futures and options 335 112 n.m.

_________
n.m. not meaningful

37

Table of Contents
In 2022 compared with 2021, overall interest rate contract volume increased as a result of higher overall volatility. We believe this was due to higher than expected inflation levels, the Federal Open Market Committee's decision to increase the Federal Funds rate multiple times in 2022 as well as the Federal Reserve's quantitative tightening in the second half of 2022. The increase in overall SOFR volume was also due to more market participants transitioning to the new reference rate away from LIBOR as well as incentive programs designed to encourage market participation in SOFR options trading.
Equity Index Products
The following table summarizes average daily contract volume for our key equity index products.

------------------------------------------- ----- ----- --------------------- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 2022-2021
E-mini S&P 500 futures and options (1) 4,535 3,179 43 %
E-mini Nasdaq 100 futures and options (1) 2,208 1,536 44
E-mini Russell 2000 futures and options (1) 378 368 3

 _______________
(1) Futures and options now include respective weekly Micro E-mini options that were previously separated under a unique product category. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation.
Equity index contract volume increased due to higher overall volatility in 2022 when compared with 2021. Volatility within the equity indexes increased as a result of higher than expected inflation levels as well as the Federal Reserve's actions to increase the Federal Funds rate and quantitative tightening in 2022. We believe these factors led to the overall increases in equity contract volumes.
Foreign Exchange Products
The following table summarizes average daily contract volume for our key foreign exchange products.

---------------------- ---- ---- --------------------- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Euro 263 210 25 %
Japanese yen 167 114 46
British pound 129 101 28
Australian dollar 106 102 3

Overall foreign exchange contract volume increased in 2022 when compared with 2021, which we believe is due to higher overall market volatility. Market volatility increased in 2022 due to the global central banks' interest rate policy decisions as a result of higher than expected inflation.
Agricultural Commodity Products
The following table summarizes average daily volume for our key agricultural commodity products.

---------------------- ---- ---- --------------------- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Corn 418 458 (9) %
Soybean 268 281 (5)
Wheat 175 197 (11)

In 2022 when compared with 2021, overall commodity contract volume decreased, which we believe is largely due to risk aversion by market participants following price increases and global trade uncertainty resulting from the Russia and Ukraine conflict.

38

Table of Contents
Energy Products
The following table summarizes average daily volume for our key energy products.

---------------------- ----- ----- --------------------- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 2022-2021
WTI crude oil 1,108 1,181 (6) %
Natural gas 492 530 (7)
Refined products 328 351 (6)

Overall energy contract volume decreased in 2022 when compared with 2021. Participant trading activity slowed down largely due to concerns regarding high inflation and an economic downturn. In addition, the sustained conflict between Russia and Ukraine continued to cause disruptions to the global energy markets. We believe these factors led to the overall decrease in energy contract volume.
Metal Products
The following table summarizes average daily volume for our key metal products.

---------------------- ---- ---- --------------------- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Gold 318 330 (4) %
Copper 93 101 (8)
Silver 83 95 (12)

In 2022 when compared with 2021, overall metal contract volume decreased, which we believe was attributable to lower overall market volatility within the gold and silver markets. Volume was higher in 2021, as investors were using gold and other precious metals as safe-haven investments following the COVID-19 pandemic.
Average Rate per Contract
The average rate per contract was lower in 2022 when compared with 2021. The decrease in the average rate per contract was primarily due to a change in product mix. Equity index contract volume increased by 5 percentage points as a percent of total volume, while agricultural commodity, energy and metal contract volume collectively decreased by 5 percentage points. In general, equity index products have a lower rate per contract compared with the agricultural commodity, energy and metal contracts.
Cash Markets Business
Total clearing and transaction fees revenue in 2022 included $318.8 million of transaction fees attributable to the cash markets business, compared with $396.2 million in 2021. This revenue primarily includes BrokerTecs's fixed income volume and EBS foreign exchange volume. In September 2021, we contributed the net assets of our optimization business to OSTTRA, our joint venture with IHS Markit.

--------------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- --------------------- ----- ---- - --- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in millions) 2022 2021 2022-2021
BrokerTec fixed income transaction fees $ 164.7 $ 172.0 (4) %
EBS foreign exchange transaction fees 154.1 164.3 (6) %
Optimization transaction fees — 59.9 n.m.
_________
n.m. not meaningful

39

Table of Contents
The related average daily notional value for the years ended 2022 and 2021 for key cash markets products were as follows:

------------------------ ----- ----- ---- ----- --------------------- ----- -- - -- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(amounts in billions) 2022 2021 2022-2021
European Repo (in euros) $ 345.2 $ 292.3 18 %
U.S. Treasury 126.1 115.0 10 %
Spot FX 65.7 61.2 7 %

Overall average daily notional value for the cash markets business increased in 2022 when compared with 2021. The increases in European Repo and U.S. Treasury transactions were largely due to increased volatility as a result of a change in market expectations regarding the Federal Reserve's interest rate policy, following higher than expected inflation levels in 2022. Despite the increase in average daily notional value, transaction revenue for BrokerTec and EBS decreased slightly due to the tiered pricing structure and incentive rate programs.
Concentration of Revenue
We bill a significant portion of our clearing and transaction fees to our clearing firms. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. One clearing firm represented at least approximately 10% of our clearing and transaction fees in 2022. Should a clearing firm withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange. Therefore, we do not believe we are exposed to significant risk from an ongoing loss of revenue received from or through a particular clearing firm.
Other Sources of Revenue
Market data and information services. In 2022 when compared with 2021, the increase in market data and information services revenue was largely attributable to price increases for certain products as well as an increase in usage for certain products.
The two largest resellers of our market data represented, in aggregate, approximately 33% of our market data and information services revenue in 2022. Despite this concentration, we consider exposure to significant risk of revenue loss to be minimal. In the event that one of these vendors no longer distributes our market data, we believe the majority of that vendor's customers would likely subscribe to our market data through another reseller. Additionally, several of our largest institutional customers that utilize services from our two largest resellers report usage and remit payment of their fees directly to us.
Other revenues. In 2022 when compared with 2021, the decrease in other revenue was largely attributable to the deconsolidation of the optimization business in September 2021 as part of the contribution of the business's net assets to OSTTRA, our joint venture with IHS Markit. In 2021, the optimization business generated $115.1 million in other revenue.

Expenses

-------------------------------------- ----- ------- ---- ----- - ------- --------------------- --- ---- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(dollars in millions) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Compensation and benefits $ 753.1 $ 837.0 (10) %
Technology 188.6 192.6 (2)
Professional fees and outside services 137.4 151.7 (9)
Amortization of purchased intangibles 227.7 237.6 (4)
Depreciation and amortization 134.9 147.8 (9)
Licensing and other fee agreements 320.0 236.9 35
Other 241.8 240.9 —
Total Expenses $ 2,003.5 $ 2,044.5 (2)

2022 Compared With 2021
Operating expenses decreased by $41.0 million in 2022 when compared with 2021. The following table shows the estimated impact of key factors resulting in the net decrease in operating expenses.

40

Table of Contents

--------------------------------------- -------------------- ------ ------------------------------------- --- --- -
(dollars in millions) Year-over-YearChange Change as aPercentage of2021 Expenses
Salaries, benefits and employer taxes $ (63.9) (3) %
Non-qualified deferred compensation (28.7) (1)
Employee separation and retention costs (25.0) (1)
Professional fees and outside services (14.3) (1)
Currency fluctuation (12.8) (1)
Bonus 21.6 1
Licensing and other fee agreements 83.1 4
Other expenses, net (1.0) —
Total $ (41.0) (2) %

Overall operating expenses decreased in 2022 when compared with 2021 due to the following reasons:
•Salaries, benefits and employer taxes were lower during 2022 when compared with 2021 due to a net decrease in average headcount, including the contribution of employees from CME Group's optimization businesses to the joint venture with IHS Markit in September 2021.
•A decrease in our non-qualified deferred compensation liability during 2022, the impact of which does not affect net income because of an equal and offsetting change in investment income, contributed to a decrease in compensation and benefits expense.
•Employee separation and retention costs were lower in 2022 compared with 2021 due to a lower reduction in workforce.
•Professional fees and outside services expense decreased due to one-time legal and other professional fees incurred in 2021 related to our joint venture with IHS Markit. The decrease in professional fees was partially offset by an increase in consulting fees attributable to CME Group's partnership with Google Cloud, which was signed in November 2021.
•In 2022, we recognized a net gain of $13.2 million, compared to a net gain of $0.4 million in 2021, due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Gains and losses from exchange rate fluctuations are recognized in the consolidated statements of net income when subsidiaries with a U.S. dollar functional currency hold certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
Increases in operating expenses in 2022 when compared with 2021 were as follows:
•Bonus expense increased in 2022 largely due to performance relative to our 2022 cash earnings target when compared with 2021 performance relative to our 2021 cash earnings target.
•Licensing and other fee agreements expense increased in 2022 due to higher volumes for certain equity products during 2022 compared with 2021.

Non-Operating Income (Expense)

-------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------- ---- ------- - ----- --------------------- ---- ----
 Year-over-Year Change
(dollars in millions) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Investment income $ 2,198.4 $ 306.9 n.m.
Interest and other borrowing costs (162.7) (166.9) (2)
Equity in net earnings (losses) of unconsolidated subsidiaries 301.1 245.8 22
Other income (expense) (1,862.4) 342.6 n.m.
Total Non-Operating $ 474.4 $ 728.4 (35)
_________
n.m. not meaningful
Investment income. In 2022 when compared with 2021, there was an increase in earnings from reinvested cash performance bond and guaranty fund contributions due to a higher rate of interest earned in the cash accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago following interest rate hikes in 2022. In 2022 and 2021, earnings from cash performance bond and guaranty fund contributions were $2,169.5 million and $173.9 million, respectively. The increase in income was partially offset by a decrease in net realized and unrealized gains on investments as well as a decrease in earnings on our deferred compensation plan, the impact of which does not affect net income because of an equal and offsetting change in compensation and benefits expense.

41

Table of Contents
Equity in net earnings (losses) of unconsolidated subsidiaries. Higher income generated from our S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC business venture contributed to an increase in equity in net earnings (losses) of unconsolidated subsidiaries in 2022 when compared with 2021. We also recognized our share of net earnings on our investment in OSTTRA, our joint venture with IHS Markit that was formed in September 2021.
Other income (expense). In 2022 when compared with 2021, we recognized higher expenses related to the distribution of interest earned on performance bond collateral reinvestments to the clearing firms in conjunction with higher interest income earned on our reinvestment during the period due to a higher Federal Funds rate in 2022. In 2022 and 2021, expenses related to the distribution of interest earned on collateral reinvestments were $1,889.7 million and $119.6 million, respectively. In 2021, we also recognized a net gain of $400.7 million on the deconsolidation and contribution of our optimization business to OSTTRA.

Income Tax Provision
The following table summarizes the effective tax rate for the periods presented:

---------------------- ---- - ---- ---- - --------------------- --- -
 2022 2021 Year-over-Year Change
 2022-2021
Year ended December 31 22.9 % 21.8 % 1.1 %

The effective tax rate increased in 2022 when compared with 2021. In 2021, we recognized a gain on the deconsolidation and contribution of our optimization business to OSTTRA, which was not taxable. The impact of the gain in 2021 was partially offset by an increase to the statutory rate in the United Kingdom in 2021.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Requirements
We have historically met our funding requirements with cash generated by our ongoing operations. However, we have used our commercial paper program from time to time to fund large short-term funding needs. While our cost structure is generally fixed in the short term, our sources of operating cash are largely dependent on contract trading volume levels. In addition to using our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations, we may continue to utilize our commercial paper program to meet our working capital needs, capital expenditures and other commitments. It is also possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities through future public debt offerings or by direct borrowings from financial institutions through our committed revolving credit facilities.
Cash will also be required for non-cancellable purchase obligations as at December 31, 2022. Commitments include material contractual purchase obligations that are non-cancellable. Purchase obligations relate to advertising, licensing, hardware, software and maintenance as well as telecommunication services. Aside from the table below, we have certain other arrangements that have a perpetual term for which we pay a minimum of $5.0 million per year. At December 31, 2022, future minimum payments due under purchase obligations were payable as follows (in millions):

---------- ----- -------
Year
 2023 $ 92.6
 2024-2025 184.0
 2026-2027 215.1
Thereafter 733.0
Total $ 1,224.7

Future capital expenditures for technology are anticipated as we continue to support our growth through increased system capacity, performance improvements, integration of acquired platforms and improvements to some of our office spaces. Each year, capital expenditures are incurred for improvements to and modification of our offices, remote data centers, telecommunications network and other operating equipment. In 2023, we expect capital expenditures to total approximately $100.0 million, net of any leasehold improvement allowances. We continue to monitor our capital needs and may revise our forecasted expenditures as necessary in the future.
We intend to continue to pay a regular quarterly dividend to our shareholders, with a target of between 50% to 60% of the prior year's cash earnings. The decision to pay a dividend and the amount of the dividend, however, remains within the discretion of our board of directors and may be affected by various factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, levels of indebtedness and other considerations our board of directors deems relevant. We are also required to comply with restrictions contained in the general corporation laws of our state of incorporation, which could limit our ability to declare and pay dividends. On February 2, 2023, the company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $1.10 per share for all outstanding

42

Table of Contents
common and preferred shares. The dividend will be payable on March 27, 2023 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2023. Assuming no changes in the number of shares outstanding, the first quarter dividend payment will total approximately $400.0 million. The board of directors also declared an additional, annual variable dividend of $4.50 per share on December 8, 2022 paid on January 18, 2023 to the shareholders of record on December 28, 2022. In general, the amount of the annual variable dividend will be determined by the end of each year, and the level will increase or decrease from year to year based on operating results, capital expenditures, potential merger and acquisition activity and other forms of capital return, including regular dividends and share buybacks during the prior year.

Sources and Uses of Cash
The following is a summary of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities.

--------------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- ---- -------- - ------- --------------------- ---- -- -
 Year-over-Year Change
(dollars in millions) 2022 2021 2022-2021
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,056.0 $ 2,402.4 27 %
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (489.8) 58.4 n.m.
Net cash provided by financing activities (25,381.7) 69,908.7 n.m.
_________
n.m. not meaningful
Operating activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was higher in 2022 compared with 2021, largely due to an increase in clearing and transaction fee revenue. This was partially offset by income tax payments which were higher in 2022 compared with 2021.
Investing activities
The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2022 compared with 2021 was largely due to the additional investment in S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC of $410.0 million. In addition, we received $100.7 million from the OSTTRA joint venture transaction and additional proceeds from sales of investments in 2021.
Financing activities
Cash used in financing activities was higher in 2022 when compared with 2021 mainly due to a decrease in cash performance bonds and guaranty fund contributions. In addition, there was an increase in dividends paid in 2022. In 2021, we received proceeds of $965.0 million from the issuance of preferred shares in connection with our partnership with Google Cloud.

Debt Instruments
The following table summarizes our debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022:

------------------------------------------------------------- --------- -----
(in millions) Par Value
Fixed rate notes due May 2023, stated rate of 4.30% € 15.0
Fixed rate notes due March 2025, stated rate of 3.00% (1) $ 750.0
Fixed rate notes due June 2028, stated rate of 3.75% $ 500.0
Fixed rate notes due March 2032, stated rate of 2.65% $ 750.0
Fixed rate notes due September 2043, stated rate of 5.30% (2) $ 750.0
Fixed rate notes due June 2048, stated rate of 4.15% $ 700.0

 _______________
(1)We maintained a forward-starting interest rate swap agreement that modified the interest obligation associated with these notes so that the interest payable on the notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 3.11%.
(2)We maintained a forward-starting interest rate swap agreement that modified the interest obligation associated with these notes so that the interest payable effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.73%.
We maintain a $2.3 billion multi-currency revolving senior credit facility with various financial institutions, which matures in November 2026. The proceeds from this facility can be used for general corporate purposes, which includes providing liquidity for our clearing house in certain circumstances at CME Group's discretion and, if necessary, for maturities of commercial paper. As long as we are not in default under this facility, we have the option to increase it up to $3.3 billion with the consent of the agent and lenders providing the additional funds. This facility is voluntarily pre-payable from time to time without premium or penalty. Under this facility, we are required to remain in compliance with a consolidated net worth test, which is defined as our consolidated shareholders' equity at September 30, 2021, giving effect to share repurchases made and special dividends paid

43

Table of Contents
during the term of the agreements (and in no event greater than $2.0 billion in aggregate), multiplied by 0.65. We currently do not have any borrowings outstanding under this facility, but any commercial paper balance if or when outstanding can be backstopped against this facility.
We maintain a 364-day multi-currency revolving secured credit facility with a consortium of domestic and international banks to be used in certain situations by the clearing house. The facility provides for borrowings of up to $7.0 billion. We may use the proceeds to provide temporary liquidity in the unlikely event a clearing firm fails to promptly discharge an obligation to CME Clearing, in the event of a liquidity constraint or default by a depositary (custodian for our collateral), in the event of a temporary disruption with the domestic payments system that would delay payment of settlement variation between us and our clearing firms, or in other cases as provided by the CME rulebook. Clearing firm guaranty fund contributions received in the form of cash or U.S. Treasury securities as well as the performance bond assets (pursuant to the CME rulebook) can be used to collateralize the facility. At December 31, 2022, guaranty fund contributions available to collateralize the facility totaled $6.9 billion. We have the option to request an increase in the line from $7.0 billion to $10.0 billion. Our 364-day facility contains a requirement that CME remain in compliance with a consolidated tangible net worth test, defined as CME's consolidated shareholder's equity less intangible assets (as defined in the agreement), of not less than $800.0 million. We currently do not have any borrowings outstanding under this facility.
The indentures governing our fixed rate notes, our $2.3 billion multi-currency revolving senior credit facility and our 364-day multi-currency revolving secured credit facility for $7.0 billion do not contain specific covenants that restrict the ability to pay dividends. These documents, however, do contain other customary financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on the operations of the company that could indirectly affect the ability to pay dividends.
At December 31, 2022, we have excess borrowing capacity for general corporate purposes of approximately $2.3 billion under our multi-currency revolving senior credit facility.
At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the various covenant requirements of all our debt facilities.
CME Group, as a holding company, has no operations of its own. Instead, it relies on dividends declared and paid to it by its subsidiaries in order to provide the funds that it uses to pay dividends to its shareholders.
To satisfy our performance bond obligation with Singapore Exchange Limited, we may pledge irrevocable standby letters of credit. At December 31, 2022, the letters of credit totaled $330.0 million. We also maintain a $350.0 million line of credit to meet our obligations under this agreement.
The following table summarizes our credit ratings as of December 31, 2022:

------------------------- --------------------- -------------------- -------
Rating Agency Short-TermDebt Rating Long-TermDebt Rating Outlook
Standard & Poor’s A1+ AA- Stable
Moody’s Investors Service P1 Aa3 Stable

Given our cash flow generation, our ability to pay down debt levels and our ability to refinance existing debt facilities, if necessary, we expect to maintain an investment grade rating. If our ratings are downgraded below investment grade within certain specified time periods due to a change of control, we are required to make an offer to repurchase our fixed rate notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. No report of any rating agency is incorporated by reference herein.

Liquidity and Cash Management
Cash and cash equivalents, excluding restricted cash, totaled $2.7 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. The balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our corporate investment policy and alternative investment choices. A majority of our cash and cash equivalents balance is invested in money market mutual funds that invest only in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities and U.S. Treasury security reverse repurchase agreements and short-term bank deposits. Our exposure to credit and liquidity risk is minimal given the nature of the investments. Cash that is not available for general corporate purposes because of regulatory requirements or other restrictions is classified as restricted cash and is included in other current assets or other assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
Our practice is to have our pension plan 100% funded at each year end on a projected benefit obligation basis, while also satisfying any minimum required contribution and obtaining the maximum tax deduction. Based on our actuarial projections, we estimate that no additional contribution will be necessary in 2023 to meet our funding goal. However, the amount of the actual contribution is contingent on various factors, including the actual rate of return on our plan assets during 2023 and the December 31, 2023 discount rate.

44

Table of Contents
Regulatory Requirements
CME is regulated by the CFTC as a Derivatives Clearing Organization (DCO). DCOs are required to maintain capital, as defined by the CFTC, in an amount at least equal to one year of projected operating expenses as well as cash, liquid securities, or a line of credit at least equal to six months of projected operating expenses. CME was designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council as a systemically important financial market utility under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. As a result, CME must comply with CFTC regulations applicable to a systemically important DCO for financial resources and liquidity resources. CME is in compliance with all DCO financial requirements.
CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX are regulated by the CFTC as Designated Contract Markets (DCM). DCMs are required to maintain capital, as defined by the CFTC, in an amount at least equal to one year of projected operating expenses as well as cash, liquid securities or a line of credit at least equal to six months of projected operating expenses. Our DCMs are in compliance with all DCM financial requirements.
BrokerTec Americas LLC is required to maintain sufficient net capital under Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), Rule 15c3-1 (the Net Capital Rule). The Net Capital Rule focuses on liquidity and is designed to protect securities customers, counterparties, and creditors by requiring that broker-dealers have sufficient liquid resources on hand at all times to satisfy claims promptly. Rule 15c3-3, or the customer protection rule, which complements Rule 15c3-1, is designed to ensure that customer property (securities and funds) in the custody of broker-dealers is adequately safeguarded. By law, both of these rules apply to the activities of registered broker-dealers, but not to unregistered affiliates. The firm began operating as a (k)(2)(i) broker-dealer in November 2017 following notification to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the SEC. A company operating under the (k)(2)(i) exemption is not required to lock up customer funds as would otherwise be required under Exchange Act Rule 15c3-3.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[ "Item 1 - Business"]:
Item 1 Business 1

[ "Item 1 - Business"]:
Item 1 Business 1

[ "Item 1 - Business"]:
Item 1 Business 1

[see "Part II, Item 7 - Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[" beginning on page 7.
Revenues
Clearing and transaction fees. A majority of our revenue is derived from clearing and transaction fees, which include electronic trading fees, surcharges for privately negotiated transactions and other volume-related charges for exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) contracts. Because clearing and transaction fees are assessed on a per-contract or notional value basis, revenues and profitability fluctuate with changes in contract volume. In addition to the business trends noted earlier, our contract volume, and consequently our revenues, tend to increase during periods of economic and geopolitical uncertainty as our customers seek to manage their exposure to, or speculate on, the market volatility resulting from that uncertainty.
While volume has the most significant impact on our clearing and transaction fees revenue, there are four other factors that also influence this source of revenue:
•rate structure;
•product mix;
•venue; and
•the percentage of trades executed by customers who are members compared with non-member customers.
Rate structure. Customers benefit from volume discounts and limits on fees as part of our effort to increase liquidity in certain products. We offer various incentive programs to promote trading and clearing in various products and geographic locations. We may periodically change fees, volume discounts, fee limits and member discounts, perhaps significantly, based on our review of operations and the business environment.
Product mix. We offer exchange-traded futures and options contracts as well as cleared-only interest rate swap contracts. We also offer foreign exchange spot and forward contracts and fixed income products. Rates are varied by product in order to optimize revenue on existing products and to encourage contract volume upon introduction of new products.
Venue. Our exchange and platforms are an international marketplace that brings together buyers and sellers mainly through our electronic trading as well as through open outcry trading and privately negotiated transactions. Any customer who is guaranteed by a clearing firm and who agrees to be bound by our exchange rules is able to obtain direct access to our

31

Table of Contents
electronic platforms. Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members, who may execute trades on behalf of customers or for themselves. Beginning in May 2021, open outcry trading is now limited to Eurodollar options and Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) options products following the permanent closure of most of our open outcry pits.
Typically, customers submitting trades through our electronic platforms are charged fees for using the platforms in addition to the fees assessed on all transactions executed on our exchange. Customers entering into privately negotiated transactions also incur additional charges beyond the fees assessed on other transactions.
Member/non-member mix. Generally, member customers are charged lower fees than our non-member customers. Holding all other factors constant, revenue decreases if the percentage of trades executed by members increases, and increases if the percentage of non-member trades increases.
Clearing and transaction fees for cash markets business. Our cash markets business provides matching services whereby we match a buyer and seller of financial instruments to allow both parties to complete the trade bilaterally or through a third-party clearing house. We are not involved in the settlement of the contract but charge a transaction fee generally based on volume or notional value of the trade for providing the matching service. BrokerTec Americas also generates revenue from a matched principal business. This business serves as a fully matched counterparty to offsetting positions entered into by clients on our electronic trading platform to facilitate anonymity and access to clearing and settlement. Revenue is generated from this business generally on a transaction fee basis.
Other sources. Revenue is also derived from other sources, including market data and information services and other various services related to our exchange operations.
Market data and information services. We receive market data and information services revenue from the dissemination of our market data to subscribers. Subscribers can obtain access to our market data services either directly or through third-party distributors.
Our service offerings include access to real-time, delayed and end-of-day quotations, trade and summary market data for our products and other data sources. Users of our basic service receive real-time quotes and pay a flat monthly fee for each screen, or device, displaying our market data. Alternatively, customers can subscribe to market data provided on a limited group of products. The fee for this service is also a flat rate per month.
Pricing for our market data services is based on the value of the service provided and the price of comparable services offered by our competitors. Increases or decreases in our market data and information services revenue are influenced by changes in our price structure and incentive programs for existing market data offerings, introduction of new market data services and changes in the number of devices in use. General economic factors that affect the financial services industry, which constitutes our primary customer base, also influence revenue from our market data services.
Other revenues. Other revenue includes access and communication fees. Access and communication fees are connectivity fees charged to members and clearing firms that utilize our various telecommunications networks and communications services. Our communication services include our co-location program as well as the connectivity charges to customers of the CME Globex platform. Access fee revenue varies depending on the type of connection provided to customers.
Prior to the contribution of the net assets of our optimization business to OSTTRA, other revenues included revenues from our optimization services, which included fees for risk management and information services for the OTC markets, including portfolio reconciliation and post-trade processing. Revenue earned from these services was typically generated through subscriptions or transaction fees.
Other revenues also include fees for collateral management, equity subscription fees and fees for trade order routing through agreements from various strategic relationships as well as other services to members and clearing firms.
Expenses
The majority of our expenses do not vary directly with changes in our contract volume. However, licensing and other fee agreements can vary directly with certain equity, energy and swap volumes, and the majority of our employee bonuses vary indirectly with overall contract volume, as bonuses are primarily based on our financial performance.
Compensation and benefits. Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant expense and includes employee wages, bonuses, stock-based compensation, benefits and employer taxes. Changes in this expense are driven by fluctuations in the number of employees, increases in wages as a result of labor market conditions, changes in rates for employer taxes and other cost increases affecting benefit plans. In addition, this expense is affected by the composition of our workforce. The expense associated with our bonus and stock-based compensation plans can also have a significant impact on this expense category.

32

Table of Contents
The bonus component of our compensation and benefits expense is based on our financial performance. Under the performance criteria of our annual incentive plans, the bonus funded under the plans is based on achieving certain financial performance targets established by the compensation committee of our board of directors. The compensation committee has discretion to make equitable adjustments to the cash earnings performance calculation to reflect effects of unplanned operating results or capital expenditures to meet intermediate- to long-term growth opportunities.
In general, stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense related to restricted stock and performance share grants. Stock-based compensation varies depending on the quantity and fair value of awards granted. The fair value of restricted stock awards and other performance share grants is based on either the share price on the date of the grant or a model of expected future stock prices.
Professional fees and outside services. This expense includes fees for consulting services received on strategic and technology initiatives; regulatory and other compliance matters; temporary labor as well as legal and accounting fees. This expense may fluctuate as a result of changes in services required to complete initiatives, handle legal proceedings and comply with regulatory and compliance requirements.
Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense results from the depreciation of long-lived assets such as buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment. This expense also includes the amortization of purchased and internally developed software.
Amortization of purchased intangibles. Amortization of purchased intangibles includes amortization of intangible assets obtained in our acquisitions of CBOT Holdings, Inc., NYMEX Holdings, Inc. and NEX as well as other asset and business acquisitions. Intangible assets subject to amortization consist primarily of clearing firm, market data and other customer relationships.
Other expenses. We incur additional ongoing expenses for communications, technology support services and various other activities necessary to support our operations.
•Technology expense consists of costs related to maintenance of the hardware and software required to support our technology. It also includes costs for network connections for our electronic platforms and some market data customers; telecommunications costs of our exchange, and fees paid for access to external market data. This expense may be driven by system capacity, cloud consumption, functionality and redundancy requirements. It also may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume and changes in the number of telecommunications hubs and connections which allow customers outside the U.S. to access our electronic platforms directly.
•Licensing and other fee agreements expense includes license fees paid as a result of contract volume in equity index products. This expense also includes royalty fees and broker rebates on energy and metals products, as well as revenue sharing on cleared swaps contracts and some new product launches. This expense fluctuates with changes in contract volumes as well as changes in fee structures.
•Other expenses include occupancy and building operations expenses including rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities and other related costs related to leased property in Chicago, New York, the U.K., and India, as well as other smaller locations throughout the world. Other expenses also include marketing and travel-related expenses as well as general and administrative costs. Marketing, advertising and public relations expense includes media, print and other advertising costs, as well as costs associated with our product promotion. Other expenses also include litigation and customer settlements, impairment charges on operating assets, gains and losses on disposals of certain operating assets, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on certain foreign monetary assets and liabilities.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Income and expenses incurred through activities outside of our core operations are considered non-operating. These activities include non-core investing and financing activities.
•Investment income includes income from short-term investment of clearing firms']:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

["Part II, Item 7 - Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17
