================================================================================
CIK: 0001274494
Company Name: FIRST SOLAR, INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-28
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 13:49:58
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as described under the “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” that appears earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis does not address certain items in respect of the year ended December 31, 2020. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 for comparative discussions of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

Executive Overview

We are a leading American solar technology company and global provider of PV solar energy solutions. Developed at our R&D labs in California and Ohio, we manufacture and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology that provide a high-performance, lower-carbon alternative to conventional crystalline silicon PV solar modules. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling, we are committed to reducing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. We are the world’s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and the largest PV solar module manufacturer in the Western Hemisphere.

Certain of our financial results and other key operational developments for the year ended December 31, 2022 include the following:

•Net sales for 2022 decreased by 10% to $2.6 billion compared to $2.9 billion in 2021. The decrease in net sales was primarily attributable to sales of certain projects in the United States and Japan in the prior period, the prior period settlement of an outstanding indemnification arrangement associated with the sale of one of our projects, and a decrease in the average selling price per watt, partially offset by an increase in the volume of modules sold to third parties.

•Gross profit decreased 22.3 percentage points to 2.7% in 2022 from 25.0% in 2021 primarily due to a decrease in the average selling price per watt of our modules, the volume of higher gross profit projects sold during the prior period, an increase in sales freight, demurrage, and detention charges, an impairment loss for our Luz del Norte PV solar power plant, and the prior period settlement of the indemnification matter mentioned above. These decreases to gross profit were partially offset by the higher volume of modules sold and continued module cost reductions.

42

Table of Contents
•As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately 9.8 GWDC of total installed nameplate module production capacity across all our facilities. We produced 9.1 GWDC of solar modules during 2022, which represented a 15% increase in module production from 2021. The increase in production was primarily driven by higher throughput at our manufacturing facilities. We expect to produce between 11.5 GWDC and 12.2 GWDC of solar modules during 2023.

•During 2022, we announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by an additional 4.4 GWDC by constructing our fourth manufacturing facility in the United States and increasing our manufacturing footprint at our existing facilities in Ohio. Such expansion plans, in combination with our previously announced expansion plans, are expected to increase our manufacturing capacity by approximately 11 GWDC by 2025.

•In May 2022, we entered into various agreements with certain subsidiaries of PAG Real Assets (“PAG”), a private investment firm, for the sale of our Japan project development business. In June 2022, we completed the sale and, following certain customary post-closing adjustments, received total consideration of ¥66.4 billion ($490.8 million) and transferred cash and restricted cash of ¥8.4 billion ($61.9 million) to PAG. As a result of this transaction, we recognized a gain of $245.2 million, net of transaction costs, which was included in “Gain on sales of businesses, net” in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. In September 2022, we also completed the sale of our Japanese O&M operations to a subsidiary of PAG and, following certain customary post-closing adjustments, received total consideration of ¥692.7 million ($4.8 million). As a result of this transaction, we recognized a gain of $1.4 million, net of transaction costs and post-closing adjustments, which was included in “Gain on sales of businesses, net” in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022.

Market Overview

Solar energy is one of the fastest growing forms of renewable energy with numerous economic and environmental benefits that make it an attractive complement to and/or substitute for traditional forms of energy generation. In recent years, the cost of producing electricity from PV solar power systems has decreased to levels that are competitive with or below the wholesale price of electricity in many markets. This price decline has opened new possibilities to develop systems in many locations with limited or no financial incentives, thereby promoting the widespread adoption of solar energy. Additionally, recently enacted government support programs, such as the IRA discussed above, have contributed to this momentum by providing solar module manufacturers, project developers, and project owners with various incentives to accelerate the ongoing transition to clean energy. For more information about these support programs, see Item 1. “Business - Support Programs.”

Supply and demand. As a result of the market opportunities described above, we are in the process of expanding our manufacturing capacity by approximately 11 GWDC, including the construction of our third manufacturing facility in the United States, which commenced commercial production of modules in early 2023; our first manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2023; our fourth manufacturing facility in the United States, which is expected to commence operations in late 2024; and the expansion of our manufacturing footprint at our existing facilities in Ohio. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules, particularly those in China, have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. Accordingly, we believe the solar industry may experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand, which could lead to periods of pricing volatility. In light of such market realities, we continue to focus on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module technology, our manufacturing process, our R&D capabilities, the sustainability advantage of our modules, and our financial stability.

43

Table of Contents
Pricing competition. The solar industry has been characterized by intense pricing competition, both at the module and system levels. This competition may result in an environment in which pricing falls rapidly, thereby potentially increasing demand for solar energy solutions but constraining the ability for project developers and module manufacturers to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if competitors reduce pricing to levels below their costs, bid aggressively low prices for module sale agreements, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time. For certain of our competitors, including many in China, these practices may be enabled by their direct or indirect access to sovereign capital or other forms of state support. Although module average selling prices in many global markets have declined for several years, recent module spot pricing has increased, in part, due to trade measures and policies, government regulations, raw material availability, and supply chain disruptions. For example, module spot pricing in the United States has increased, in part, due to elevated commodity and logistics costs and, more recently, due to the rising demand for modules manufactured in the United States as a result of the IRA. The duration of this elevated period of pricing is uncertain.

Diverse offerings. We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules and other emerging technologies. Solar module manufacturers compete with one another on sales price per watt, which may be influenced by several module value attributes, including wattage (through a larger form factor or an improved conversion efficiency), energy yield, degradation, sustainability, and reliability. Sales price per watt may also be influenced by warranty terms and customer payment terms. While conventional solar modules are monofacial, meaning their ability to produce energy is a function of direct and diffuse irradiance on their front side, most module manufacturers offer bifacial modules that also capture diffuse irradiance on the back side of a module. We currently produce monofacial solar modules and, based on recent R&D activities, expect to produce bifacial solar modules in the near term. Bifaciality compromises nameplate efficiency, but by converting both front and rear side irradiance, such technology may improve the overall energy production of a module relative to nameplate efficiency when applied in certain applications, which could potentially lower the overall LCOE of a system when compared to systems using conventional solar modules, including the modules we currently produce. Additionally, certain module manufacturers have introduced n-type mono-crystalline modules, such as TOPCon modules, which are expected to provide certain improvements to module efficiency, temperature coefficient, and bifacial performance, and claim to provide certain degradation advantages compared to other mono-crystalline modules.

Product efficiencies. We believe we are among the lowest cost module manufacturers in the solar industry on a module cost per watt basis, based on publicly available information. This cost competitiveness allows us to compete favorably in markets where pricing for modules and systems is highly competitive. Our cost competitiveness is based in large part on our advanced thin film semiconductor technology, module wattage (or conversion efficiency), proprietary manufacturing process (which enables us to produce a CdTe module in a matter of hours using a continuous and highly automated industrial manufacturing process, as opposed to a batch process), and our focus on operational excellence. In addition, our CdTe modules use approximately 2% to 3% of the amount of semiconductor material that is used to manufacture conventional crystalline silicon solar modules. The cost of polysilicon is a significant driver of the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules, and the timing and rate of change in the cost of silicon feedstock and polysilicon could lead to changes in solar module pricing levels. In recent years, polysilicon consumption per cell has been reduced through various initiatives, which have contributed to declines in our relative manufacturing cost competitiveness over conventional crystalline silicon module manufacturers.

Energy performance. In many climates our solar modules provide certain energy production advantages relative to competing crystalline silicon solar modules. As a result, our solar modules can produce more annual energy in real world operating conditions than conventional crystalline silicon modules with the same nameplate capacity. For more information about these advantages, see Item 1. “Business – Business Strategy.” Additionally, we warrant that our solar modules will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor between 0.3% and 0.5%, depending on the module series, every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years.

44

Table of Contents
While our modules are generally competitive in cost, reliability, and performance attributes, there can be no guarantee such competitiveness will continue to exist in the future to the same extent or at all. Any declines in the competitiveness of our products could result in further declines in the average selling prices of our modules and additional margin compression. We continue to focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our solar modules through our module technology and cost reduction roadmaps.

Certain Trends and Uncertainties

We believe that our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be favorably or unfavorably impacted by the following trends and uncertainties. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussions of other risks that may affect us.

Our business is evolving worldwide and is shaped by the varying ways in which our offerings can be compelling and economically viable solutions to energy needs in various markets. In addressing electricity demands, we are focused on providing utility-scale module offerings in key geographic markets that we believe have a significant need for mass-scale PV solar electricity, including markets throughout the United States, India, and Europe. We closely evaluate and monitor the appropriate level of resources required to support such markets and their associated sales opportunities. When deployed in utility-scale applications, our modules provide energy at a lower LCOE compared to traditional forms of energy generation, making them an attractive alternative to or replacement for aging fossil fuel-based generation resources. Accordingly, future retirements of aging energy generation resources represent a significant increase in the potential market for solar energy.

This focus on utility-scale module offerings exists within a current market environment that includes rooftop and distributed generation solar. We believe that utility-scale solar will continue to be a compelling offering for companies with technology and cost leadership and will continue to represent an increasing portion of the overall electricity generation mix. However, our module offerings in certain markets may be driven, in part, by future demand for rooftop and distributed generation solar solutions. For example, we continue to evaluate opportunities to develop and leverage other solar cell technologies in multi-junction applications that utilize our thin film PV technology. We believe such applications have the potential to enable our module conversion efficiency to reach 28% by 2030.

Demand for our PV solar module offerings depends, in part, on market factors outside our control. For example, many governments have proposed or enacted policies or support programs intended to encourage renewable energy investments to achieve decarbonization objectives and/or establish greater energy independence. While we compete in markets that do not require solar-specific government subsidies or support programs, our net sales and profits remain subject to variability based on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Adverse changes in these factors could increase the cost of utility-scale systems, which could reduce demand for our solar modules. Recent developments to government support programs include the following:

•United States. In August 2022, the U.S. President signed the IRA into law, which is intended to accelerate the country’s ongoing transition to clean energy. The provisions of the IRA are generally effective for tax years beginning after 2022. Among other things, the financial incentives provided by the IRA are expected to significantly increase demand for modules manufactured in the United States. Accordingly, the demand for these solar modules is expected to increase domestic manufacturing in the near term, which may result in localized supply chain constraints and periods of inflationary pricing for certain of our key raw materials, including substrate glass and cover glass. The financial incentives provided by the IRA are also expected to significantly increase demand for solar modules in general due to the incremental tax credit available for the qualified production of clean hydrogen that is powered by renewable resources. Given the complexities of the IRA, which is pending technical guidance and regulations from the IRS and U.S. Treasury Department, we continue to evaluate the extent of benefits available to us, which we expect will favorably impact our results of operations in future periods. For example, we currently expect to qualify for the advanced manufacturing production credit under Section 45X of the IRC, which provides certain specified

45

Table of Contents
benefits for solar modules and solar module components manufactured in the United States and sold to third parties. Such credit, which may be refundable to us or transferable to a third party, is available through 2032, subject to phase down beginning in 2030. For more information about certain risks associated with the benefits available to us under the IRA, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – We expect certain financial benefits as a result of tax incentives provided by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. If these expected financial benefits vary significantly from our assumptions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.”

•India. In September 2022, the government of India approved an expansion to its PLI scheme to INR 195 billion ($2.5 billion), which is intended to promote the manufacturing of high efficiency solar modules in India and to reduce India’s dependency on foreign imports of solar modules. Under the PLI scheme, manufacturers are selected through a competitive bid process and receive certain cash incentives over a five-year period following the commissioning of their manufacturing facilities. Among other things, such incentives are based on the efficiency and temperature coefficient of the modules produced, the proportion of raw materials sourced from the domestic market, the extent to which the manufacturer’s operations are fully integrated within India, and the quantity of modules sold from such manufacturing operations. At this time, it is uncertain whether and to what extent we may qualify for such incentives.

Demand for our solar energy solutions also depends on domestic or international trade policies and government regulations, which may be proposed, revised, and/or enacted across short- and long-term time horizons with varying degrees of impact to our net sales, profit, and manufacturing operations. Changes in these policies and regulations could adversely impact the competitive landscape of solar markets, which could reduce demand for our solar modules. Recent revisions or proposed changes to trade policy and government regulations include the following:

•United States. In June 2022, the U.S. President authorized the U.S. Secretary of Commerce to provide a 24-month antidumping and countervailing duty tariff exemption for imported solar panels from certain Southeast Asian countries. For more information about this development, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, tax incentives, renewable energy targets, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or the impact of other public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules, could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar modules and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales or increase our costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results.” Separately, the U.S. President also authorized the use of the Defense Production Act to expand domestic production of clean energy technologies. At this time, it is uncertain what impact, if any, these developments will have on future investments in solar module manufacturing in the United States.

•United States. In June 2022, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a ruling in West Virginia, et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency, et al., which limited the Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) ability to regulate greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions under the Clean Air Act using a “generation shifting” approach from coal-fired power plants to renewable energy sources over time. At this time, it is unclear what effect this ruling will have on future EPA regulation of GHG emissions, the U.S. President’s climate change initiatives, internationally agreed-upon climate goals, the extent and timing of future coal plant retirements in the United States, and/or future investments in renewable energy.

•India. The ALMM was introduced in 2021 as a non-tariff barrier to incentivize domestic manufacturing of PV modules by approving the list of models and manufacturers who can participate in certain solar development projects. The ALMM is approved by the MNRE, and any modifications to the ALMM and its application may affect future investments in solar module manufacturing in India. For more information about the ALMM, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, tax incentives, renewable energy targets, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or the impact of other public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules, could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar

46

Table of Contents
modules and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales or increase our costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results.”

Our ability to provide solar modules on economically attractive terms is also affected by the availability and cost of logistics services associated with the procurement of raw materials or equipment used in our manufacturing process and the shipping, handling, storage, and distribution of our modules. For example, although the cost of ocean freight throughout many parts of the world has recently decreased, such costs remain at elevated levels relative to pre-COVID-19 pandemic rates. Such factors may disrupt our supply chain and adversely impact our manufacturing operations as several of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of international suppliers. We may also incur additional logistics costs, such as demurrage and detention, to the extent we are unable to retrieve or return our shipping containers in a timely manner. To mitigate such costs and better meet our customer commitments, we may adjust our shipping plans to include additional lead times for module deliveries and/or utilize our network of U.S. distribution centers. We are also employing module contract structures that provide additional consideration to us if the cost of logistics services, excluding demurrage and detention, exceeds a defined threshold. Additionally, our manufacturing capacity expansions in the U.S. and India are expected to bring manufacturing activities closer to customer demand, further mitigating our exposure to the cost of ocean freight. While it is currently unclear how long these issues will persist, they may be further exacerbated by the disruption of major shipping routes or other economic disruptions.

We generally price and sell our solar modules on a per watt basis. As of December 31, 2022, we had entered into contracts with customers for the future sale of 61.4 GWDC of solar modules for an aggregate transaction price of $17.7 billion, which we expect to recognize as revenue through 2029 as we transfer control of the modules to the customers. Such volume includes contracts for the sale of 31.5 GWDC of solar modules that include transaction price adjustments associated with future module technology improvements, including new product designs and enhancements to certain energy related attributes. Based on these potential technology improvements, the contracted module volumes as of December 31, 2022, the expected timing such technology improvements are incorporated into our manufacturing process, and the expected timing of module deliveries, such adjustments, if realized, could result in additional revenue of up to $0.5 billion, the majority of which would be recognized in 2025, 2026, and 2027. In addition to these price adjustments, certain of our contracts with customers may include favorable price adjustments associated with the extension of the ITC and/or sales freight in excess of a defined threshold. Certain of our contracts with customers may also include favorable or unfavorable price adjustments associated with changes to certain commodity prices and/or the module wattage committed for delivery. As a result, the revenue recognized from such contracts may increase or decrease in future periods relative to the original transaction price.

We continue to increase the nameplate production capacity of our existing manufacturing facilities by improving our production throughput, increasing module wattage (or conversion efficiency), and reducing manufacturing yield losses. Additionally, we are in the process of expanding our manufacturing capacity by approximately 11 GWDC, including the construction of our third manufacturing facility in the United States, which commenced commercial production of modules in early 2023; our first manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2023; our fourth manufacturing facility in the United States, which is expected to commence operations in late 2024; and the expansion of our manufacturing footprint at our existing facilities in Ohio. This additional capacity, and any other potential investments to add to or otherwise modify our existing manufacturing capacity in response to market demand and competition, may require significant internal and possibly external sources of capital, and may be subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” including those described under the headings “Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand, effectively manage our cost per watt, and, when necessary, continue to build new manufacturing plants over time in response to market demand, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties” and “If any future production lines are not built in line with committed schedules, it may adversely affect our future growth plans. If any future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers.”

47

Table of Contents
Results of Operations

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

----------------------------------- ------------------------ - ---- ----- ---- ----- -
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 %
Cost of sales 97.3 % 75.0 % 74.9 %
Gross profit 2.7 % 25.0 % 25.1 %
Selling, general and administrative 6.3 % 5.8 % 8.2 %
Research and development 4.3 % 3.4 % 3.5 %
Production start-up 2.8 % 0.7 % 1.5 %
Litigation loss — % — % 0.2 %
Gain on sales of businesses, net 9.7 % 5.0 % — %
Operating (loss) income (1.0) % 20.1 % 11.7 %
Foreign currency loss, net (0.6) % (0.3) % (0.2) %
Interest income 1.3 % 0.2 % 0.6 %
Interest expense, net (0.5) % (0.4) % (0.9) %
Other income (expense), net 1.2 % — % (0.4) %
Income tax (expense) benefit (2.0) % (3.5) % 4.0 %
Net (loss) income (1.7) % 16.0 % 14.7 %

Segment Overview

Our primary segment is our modules business, which involves the design, manufacture, and sale of CdTe solar modules, which convert sunlight into electricity. Third-party customers of our modules segment include developers and operators of systems, utilities, independent power producers, commercial and industrial companies, and other system owners. Our residual business operations include certain project development activities, O&M services, the results of operations from PV solar power systems we owned and operated in certain international regions, and the sale of such systems to third-party customers.

Net sales

We generally price and sell our solar modules on a per watt basis. During 2022, Intersect Power, Lightsource BP, and NextEra Energy each accounted for more than 10% of our modules business net sales, and the majority of our solar modules were sold to developers and operators of systems in the United States. Substantially all of our modules business net sales during 2022 were denominated in U.S. dollars. We recognize revenue for module sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of the modules to the customer, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts. The revenue recognition policies for module sales are further described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. Net sales from our residual business operations primarily consists of revenue recognized for sales of development projects or completed systems, including any modules installed in such systems and any revenue from energy generated by such systems. In certain prior periods, our residual business operations also included O&M services we provided to third parties.

48

Table of Contents
The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

---------------------- ----------- --------- ------ ------- ---- --------- -------------- -------------- --------- ---- --------- --------- ---- - ---- - ------- -- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Modules $ 2,428,278 $ 2,331,380 $ 1,736,060 $ 96,898 4 % $ 595,320 34 %
Other 191,041 591,997 975,272 (400,956) (68) % (383,275) (39) %
Net sales $ 2,619,319 $ 2,923,377 $ 2,711,332 $ (304,058) (10) % $ 212,045 8 %

Net sales from our modules segment increased by $96.9 million in 2022 primarily due to a 20% increase in the volume of watts sold, partially offset by a 13% decrease in the average selling price per watt. Net sales from our residual business operations decreased by $401.0 million in 2022 primarily due to sales of certain projects in the United States and Japan in the prior period and the settlement of an outstanding indemnification arrangement associated with the sale of one of our projects. Under the terms of the indemnification arrangement, we received $65.1 million for our portion of the settlement payment, which we recorded as revenue in the prior period. These decreases in net sales from our residual business operations were partially offset by the sale of our Luz del Norte PV solar power plant in the current period. See Note 12. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of our indemnification arrangements.

Cost of sales

Our modules business cost of sales includes the cost of raw materials and components for manufacturing solar modules, such as glass, transparent conductive coatings, CdTe and other thin film semiconductors, laminate materials, connector assemblies, edge seal materials, and frames. In addition, our cost of sales includes direct labor for the manufacturing of solar modules and manufacturing overhead, such as engineering, equipment maintenance, quality and production control, and information technology. Our cost of sales also includes depreciation of manufacturing plant and equipment, facility-related expenses, environmental health and safety costs, and costs associated with shipping, warranties, and solar module collection and recycling (excluding accretion). Cost of sales for our residual business operations primarily consists of project-related costs, such as development costs (legal, consulting, transmission upgrade, interconnection, permitting, and other similar costs), engineering, procurement, and construction (“EPC”) costs (consisting primarily of solar modules, inverters, electrical and mounting hardware, project management and engineering, and construction labor), and site specific costs.

The following table shows cost of sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

---------------------- ----------- --------- ------ ------- ---- --------- -------------- - -------------- --------- ---- ------- --------- -- - ---- - ------- -- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Modules $ 2,312,881 $ 1,858,454 $ 1,306,929 $ 454,427 24 % $ 551,525 42 %
Other 236,580 334,969 723,730 (98,389) (29) % (388,761) (54) %
Cost of sales $ 2,549,461 $ 2,193,423 $ 2,030,659 $ 356,038 16 % $ 162,764 8 %
% of net sales 97.3 % 75.0 % 74.9 %

Cost of sales increased $356.0 million, or 16%, and increased 22.3 percentage points as a percent of net sales when comparing 2022 with 2021. The increase in cost of sales was driven by a $454.4 million increase in our modules segment cost of sales primarily as a result of the following:

•higher costs of $350.9 million from an increase in the volume of modules sold;
•higher sales freight, demurrage, and detention charges of $167.2 million; and
•a reduction to our product warranty liability of $33.1 million in 2021 due to reductions to our projected module return rates; partially offset by
•continued module cost reductions, which decreased cost of sales by $60.9 million;
•manufacturing charges of $15.7 million in the prior period associated with the COVID-19 pandemic;

49

Table of Contents
•an increase to our module collection and recycling liability of $10.8 million in 2021 due to lower estimated by-product credits for certain semiconductor materials recovered during the recycling process and updates to certain valuation assumptions;
•a reduction to our product warranty liability of $10.2 million in 2022 due to reductions to our projected module return rates; and
•a reduction to our module collection and recycling liability of $7.5 million in 2022 due to lower estimated capital and chemical costs resulting from improvements to our module recycling technology.

Such increase in our modules segment cost of sales was partially offset by a $98.4 million decrease in our residual business operations cost of sales primarily due to the sales of certain projects in the United States and Japan in the prior period, partially offset by the impairment loss in the current period for our Luz del Norte PV solar power plant. See Note 7. “Consolidated Balance Sheet Details” to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of the impairment of our Luz del Norte project.

Gross profit

Gross profit may be affected by numerous factors, including the selling prices of our modules and the selling prices of projects and services included in our residual business operations, our manufacturing costs, the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities, and foreign exchange rates. Gross profit may also be affected by the mix of net sales from our modules business and residual business operations.

The following table shows gross profit for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

---------------------- ----------- ------ ------ ---- ---- ------- -------------- - -------------- ------- - --------- ---- - - ------ - -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Gross profit $ 69,858 $ 729,954 $ 680,673 $ (660,096) (90) % $ 49,281 7 %
% of net sales 2.7 % 25.0 % 25.1 %

Gross profit decreased 22.3 percentage points to 2.7% in 2022 from 25.0% in 2021 primarily due to a decrease in the average selling price per watt of our modules, the volume of higher gross profit projects sold during the prior period, an increase in sales freight, demurrage, and detention charges, the impairment loss in the current period for our Luz del Norte PV solar power plant described above, and the prior period indemnification matter descried above. These decreases to gross profit were partially offset by the higher volume of modules sold and continued module cost reductions.

Selling, general and administrative

Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, professional fees, insurance costs, and other business development and selling expenses.

The following table shows selling, general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

----------------------------------- ----------- ------- ------ --- ---- ------- -------------- - -------------- ------- - ------- --- - - -------- ---- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Selling, general and administrative $ 164,724 $ 170,320 $ 222,918 $ (5,596) (3) % $ (52,598) (24) %
% of net sales 6.3 % 5.8 % 8.2 %

50

Table of Contents
Selling, general and administrative expense in 2022 decreased compared to 2021 primarily due to higher charges for impairments of certain project assets in the prior period, a decrease in employee compensation expense primarily driven by reductions in headcount from the sales of our North American O&M operations and U.S. project development business in the prior period, and lower professional fees, partially offset by an increase in employee compensation expense driven by higher share-based compensation and employee bonus expenses.

Research and development

Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs; the cost of products, materials, and outside services used in our R&D activities; and depreciation and amortization expense associated with R&D specific facilities and equipment. We maintain a number of programs and activities to improve our technology and processes in order to enhance the performance and reduce the costs of our solar modules.

The following table shows research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

------------------------ ----------- ------- ------ --- ---- ------ -------------- - -------------- ------ - ------ -- - - ----- - -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Research and development $ 112,804 $ 99,115 $ 93,738 $ 13,689 14 % $ 5,377 6 %
% of net sales 4.3 % 3.4 % 3.5 %

Research and development expense in 2022 increased compared to 2021 primarily due to higher employee compensation expense resulting from an increase in headcount, lower share-based compensation expense in the prior period driven by the forfeiture of unvested shares by our former Chief Technology Officer, who retired in March 2021, increased freight costs, and increased material and module testing costs.

Production start-up

Production start-up expense consists of costs associated with operating a production line before it is qualified for commercial production, including the cost of raw materials for solar modules run through the production line during the qualification phase, employee compensation for individuals supporting production start-up activities, and applicable facility related costs. Production start-up expense also includes costs related to the selection of a new site and implementation costs for manufacturing process improvements to the extent we cannot capitalize these expenditures.

The following table shows production start-up expense for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

---------------------- ----------- ------ ------ --- ---- ------ -------------- - -------------- ------ - ------ --- - - -------- ---- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Production start-up $ 73,077 $ 21,052 $ 40,528 $ 52,025 247 % $ (19,476) (48) %
% of net sales 2.8 % 0.7 % 1.5 %

During 2022, we incurred production start-up expense primarily for our third manufacturing facility in the U.S. and for certain manufacturing upgrades at our Malaysian facilities. During 2021, we incurred production start-up expense primarily for the transition to Series 6 module manufacturing at our second facility in Kulim, Malaysia, which commenced commercial production in early 2021, and for certain manufacturing upgrades at our Malaysian facilities.

51

Table of Contents
Gain on sales of businesses, net

The following table shows gain on sales of businesses, net for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

-------------------------------- ----------- ------- ------ --- ---- ------- -------------- - -------------- - - ------- -- - - ------- --- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Gain on sales of businesses, net $ 253,511 $ 147,284 $ — $ 106,227 72 % $ 147,284 100 %
% of net sales 9.7 % 5.0 % — %

In 2022, we completed the sales of our Japan project development business and our Japan O&M operations to PAG and the sales of certain other international O&M operations to a subsidiary of Clairvest Group, Inc. (“Clairvest”). During 2021, we completed the sales of our North American O&M operations to a subsidiary of Clairvest and our U.S. project development business to Leeward Renewable Energy Development, LLC (“Leeward”). See Note 3. “Sales of Businesses” to our consolidated financial statements for further information related to these transactions.

Foreign currency loss, net

Foreign currency loss, net consists of the net effect of gains and losses resulting from holding assets and liabilities and conducting transactions denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries’ functional currencies.

The following table shows foreign currency loss, net for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

-------------------------- ----------- -------- ------ ---- ------- -------------- -------------- ------- - ------- --- - - ------- -- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Foreign currency loss, net $ (16,414) $ (7,975) $ (4,890) $ (8,439) 106 % $ (3,085) 63 %

Foreign currency loss increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to the differences between our economic hedge positions and the underlying exposures and higher costs associated with hedging activities related to our subsidiaries in India.

Interest income

Interest income is earned on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, restricted cash, and restricted marketable securities. Interest income also includes interest earned from late customer payments.

The following table shows interest income for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

---------------------- ----------- ------ ------ ---- ----- -------------- -------------- ------ - ------ --- - - -------- ---- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Interest income $ 33,284 $ 6,179 $ 16,559 $ 27,105 439 % $ (10,380) (63) %

Interest income during 2022 increased compared to 2021 primarily due to higher interest rates on cash, marketable securities, and restricted marketable securities.

Interest expense, net

Interest expense, net is primarily comprised of interest incurred on long-term debt, settlements of interest rate swap contracts, and changes in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815. We may capitalize interest expense to our project assets or property, plant and equipment when such costs qualify for interest capitalization, which reduces the amount of net interest expense reported in any given period.

52

Table of Contents
The following table shows interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

---------------------- ----------- -------- ------ ---- -------- -------------- -------------- -------- - --- --- - - ------ ---- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Interest expense, net $ (12,225) $ (13,107) $ (24,036) $ 882 (7) % $ 10,929 (45) %

Interest expense, net in 2022 was consistent with 2021.

Other income (expense), net

Other income (expense), net is primarily comprised of miscellaneous items and realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and restricted marketable securities.

The following table shows other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

--------------------------- ----------- ------ ------ ---- --- -------------- -------------- -------- - ------ ----- - ------ --- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Other income (expense), net $ 31,189 $ 314 $ (11,932) $ 30,875 >100% $ 12,246 103 %

Other income, net increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to the partial loan forgiveness of the Luz del Norte Credit Facilities in connection with the sale of our Luz del Norte PV solar power plant. See Note 11. “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements for further information related to this transaction.

Income tax (expense) benefit

Income tax expense or benefit, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, principally Singapore, Malaysia, and Vietnam. Significant judgments and estimates are required to determine our consolidated income tax expense. The statutory federal corporate income tax rate in the United States is 21%, and the tax rates in Singapore, Malaysia, and Vietnam are 17%, 24%, and 20%, respectively. In Malaysia, we have been granted a long-term tax holiday, scheduled to expire in 2027, pursuant to which substantially all of our income earned in Malaysia is exempt from income tax, conditional upon our continued compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds. In Vietnam, we have been granted a long-term tax incentive, scheduled to expire at the end of 2036, pursuant to which income earned in Vietnam is subject to reduced annual tax rates, conditional upon our continued compliance with certain revenue and R&D spending thresholds.

The following table shows income tax (expense) benefit for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020:

---------------------------- ----------- -------- ------ ---- ---- --------- -------------- - -------------- ------- - ------ -- - - --------- ----- -
 Years Ended Change
(Dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 over 2021 2021 over 2020
Income tax (expense) benefit $ (52,764) $ (103,469) $ 107,294 $ 50,705 49 % $ (210,763) (196) %
Effective tax rate 613.7 % 18.1 % (36.6) %

Our tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions. The rate is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given period, but are not consistent from period to period. Income tax expense decreased by $50.7 million during 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to lower pretax income in the current year, partially offset by higher tax expense of $37.3 million associated with the sale of our Luz del Norte PV solar power plant during 2022.

53

Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2022, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flows from operating activities, and contracts with customers for the future sale of solar modules will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. As necessary, we also believe we will have adequate access to the capital markets. We monitor our working capital to ensure we have adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally. We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, our overall cost of capital, and expected cash requirements for operations, including near-term construction activities and purchases of manufacturing equipment for our newest manufacturing and R&D facilities in India and the United States. However, our ability to raise capital on terms commercially acceptable to us could be constrained if there is insufficient lender or investor interest due to company-specific, industry-wide, or broader market concerns. Any incremental debt financings could result in increased debt service expenses and/or restrictive covenants, which could limit our ability to pursue our strategic plans.

As of December 31, 2022, we had $2.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities compared to $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2021. The increase in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was primarily driven by cash receipts from module sales, including advance payments for future sales, proceeds from the sales of our Japan project development business and certain international O&M operations, and proceeds from borrowings, partially offset by purchases of property, plant and equipment, expenditures for the construction of certain projects in Japan, and other operating expenditures. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, $1.2 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries and was primarily based in U.S. dollar, Japanese yen, Indian rupee, and Euro denominated holdings.

We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. If certain international funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we may be required to accrue and pay certain U.S. and foreign taxes to repatriate such funds. We maintain the intent and ability to permanently reinvest our accumulated earnings outside the United States, with the exception of our subsidiaries in Canada and Germany. In addition, changes to foreign government banking regulations may restrict our ability to move funds among various jurisdictions under certain circumstances, which could negatively impact our access to capital, resulting in an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources.

Although we compete in markets that do not require solar-specific government subsidies or support programs, such incentives continue to influence the demand for PV solar energy around the world. For example, the financial incentives provided by the IRA are expected to increase both the demand for and the domestic manufacturing of solar modules in the United States. We continue to evaluate the extent of benefits available to us by the IRA, which are expected to favorably impact our liquidity and capital resources in future periods. For example, we currently expect to qualify for the advanced manufacturing production credit under Section 45X of the IRC, which provides certain specified benefits for solar modules and solar module components manufactured in the United States and sold to third parties. Such credit may be refundable or transferable to a third party and is available from 2023 to 2032, subject to phase down beginning in 2030. Based on the current form factor of our modules, we expect to qualify for a credit of approximately 17 cents per watt for each module produced in the United States and sold to a third party. Accordingly, we expect the advanced manufacturing production credit will provide us with a significant source of funding throughout its 10-year period. For more information about certain risks associated with the benefits available to us under the IRA, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – “We expect certain financial benefits as a result of tax incentives provided by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. If these expected financial benefits vary significantly from our assumptions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.”

54

Table of Contents
As a result of such market opportunities and increased demand for our products, we are in the process of expanding our capacity by approximately 11 GWDC, including the construction of our third manufacturing facility in the United States, which commenced commercial production of modules in early 2023; our first manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2023; our fourth manufacturing facility in the United States, which is expected to commence operations in late 2024; and the expansion of our manufacturing footprint at our existing facilities in Ohio. Our newest factory in the United States began producing and our newest factory in India is expected to produce our next generation Series 7 modules, which combine our thin film CdTe technology with a larger form factor and an innovative steel back rail mounting structure that reduces module installation time. In aggregate, we currently expect to invest approximately $2.7 billion for these facilities and upgrades. As we expand our manufacturing capacity, we expect to continue to receive advance payments from customers for the future sale of modules. Such advance payments are reflected as deferred revenue in our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2022, our deferred revenue was approximately $1.2 billion. Accordingly, the capital expenditures necessary to expand our capacity in the near term are expected to be financed, in part, by advance payments for module sales in future periods and by the advanced manufacturing production credit described above.

In addition to the expansion plans described above, we continue to increase the nameplate production capacity of our existing manufacturing facilities by improving our production throughput, increasing module wattage (or conversion efficiency), and reducing manufacturing yield losses. We have a demonstrated history of innovation, continuous improvement, and manufacturing success driven by our significant investments in various R&D initiatives. We continue to invest significant financial resources in such initiatives, including approximately $0.3 billion for a dedicated R&D facility in the United States to support the implementation of our technology roadmap. We expect such R&D facility to feature a high-tech pilot manufacturing line, allowing for the production of full-sized prototypes of thin film and tandem PV modules. Such R&D facility is expected to be completed in 2024. During 2023, we expect to spend $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion for capital expenditures, including the new facilities mentioned above and upgrades to machinery and equipment that we believe will further increase our module wattage and expand capacity and throughput at our manufacturing facilities.

We have also committed and expect to continue committing significant working capital to purchase various raw materials used in our module manufacturing process. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity, and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules, or increase our manufacturing costs. Accordingly, we may enter into long-term supply agreements to mitigate potential risks related to the procurement of key raw materials and components, and such agreements may be noncancelable or cancelable with a significant penalty. For example, we have entered into long-term supply agreements for the purchase of certain specified minimum volumes of substrate glass and cover glass for our PV solar modules. Our remaining purchases under these supply agreements are expected to be approximately $3.7 billion of substrate glass and approximately $301 million of cover glass. We have the right to terminate these agreements upon payment of specified termination penalties (which, in aggregate, are up to $251 million as of December 31, 2022 and decline over the remaining supply periods). Additionally, for certain strategic suppliers, we have made, and may in the future be required to make, certain advance payments to secure the raw materials necessary for our module manufacturing.

We have also committed certain financial resources to fulfill our solar module collection and recycling obligations and have established a trust under which these funds are put into custodial accounts with an established and reputable bank. As of December 31, 2022, such funds were comprised of restricted marketable securities of $182.1 million and restricted cash and cash equivalents balances of $6.7 million. As of December 31, 2022, our module collection and recycling liability was $128.1 million. Trust funds may be disbursed for qualified module collection and recycling costs (including capital and facility related recycling costs), payments to customers for assuming collection and recycling obligations, and reimbursements of any overfunded amounts. Investments in the trust must meet certain investment quality criteria comparable to highly rated government or agency bonds. As necessary, we adjust the funded amounts for our estimated collection and recycling obligations based on the

55

Table of Contents
estimated costs of collecting and recycling covered modules, estimated rates of return on our restricted marketable securities, and an estimated solar module life of 25 years, less amounts already funded in prior years.

As of December 31, 2022, we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance related instruments, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. See Note 12. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for further information about our financial assurance related instruments.

Cash Flows

The following table summarizes key cash flow activity for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 (in thousands):

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- ---- -------- ---- ------- --------- - ---------
 2022 2021 2020
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 873,369 $ 237,559 $ 37,120
Net cash used in investing activities (1,192,574) (99,040) (131,227)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 309,392 40,550 (82,587)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents 47,438 3,174 3,778
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents $ 37,625 $ 182,243 $ (172,916)

Operating Activities

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during 2022 was primarily driven by higher cash receipts from module sales, including advance payments for future sales, partially offset by higher expenditures for the construction of certain projects in Japan and certain advance payments for raw materials in the current year.

Investing Activities

The increase in net cash used in investing activities during 2022 was primarily due to higher net purchases of marketable securities, higher purchases of property, plant and equipment, and proceeds from the sales of our North American O&M operations and U.S. project development business in the prior year, partially offset by proceeds from the sales of our Japan project development business and certain international O&M operations in the current year.

Financing Activities

The increase in net cash provided by financing activities during 2022 was primarily due to higher net borrowings under project specific debt financings for the construction of certain projects in Japan. Such project specific debt financings were assumed by PAG when we completed the sale of our Japan project development business in June 2022. The increase is also due to borrowings under the India Credit Facility in the current year for the development and construction of our first manufacturing facility in India.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

None.

56

Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Estimates

In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of reported assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Some of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment in the selection of the appropriate assumptions for making these estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. We base our judgments and estimates on our historical experience, our forecasts, and other available information as appropriate. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies that require the most significant judgment and estimates include the following:

Accrued Solar Module Collection and Recycling Liability. We previously established a module collection and recycling program, which has since been discontinued, to collect and recycle modules sold and covered under such program once the modules reach the end of their service lives. For legacy customer sales contracts that were covered under this program, we recognized expense at the time of sale for the estimated cost of our obligations to collect and recycle such modules. We estimate the cost of our collection and recycling obligations based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and recycling the solar modules, which includes estimates for the cost of packaging materials; the cost of freight from the solar module installation sites to a recycling center; material, labor, and capital costs; and by-product credits for certain materials recovered during the recycling process. We base these estimates on our experience collecting and recycling solar modules and certain assumptions regarding the estimated useful lives of modules covered by the program and the number of modules expected to be recycled. In the periods between the time of sale and the related settlement of the collection and recycling obligation, we accrete the carrying amount of the associated liability and classify the corresponding expense within “Selling, general and administrative” expense on our consolidated statements of operations.

We periodically review our estimates of expected future recycling costs and may adjust our liability accordingly. Such adjustments are presented within “Cost of Sales” on our consolidated statements of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we completed our annual cost study of obligations under our module collection and recycling program and reduced the associated liability by $7.5 million primarily due to lower estimated capital and chemical costs resulting from improvements to our module recycling technology. As of December 31, 2022, a 10% increase in the expected future recycling costs would increase the liability by $13.7 million.

Product Warranties. We provide a limited PV solar module warranty covering defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for up to 12.5 years. We also typically warrant that modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. Among other things, our solar module warranty also covers the resulting power output loss from cell cracking.

As an alternative form of our standard limited module power output warranty, we have also offered an aggregated or system-level limited module performance warranty. This system-level limited module performance warranty is designed for utility-scale systems and provides 25-year system-level energy degradation protection. This warranty represents a practical expedient to address the challenge of identifying, from the potential millions of modules installed in a utility-scale system, individual modules that may be performing below warranty thresholds by focusing on the aggregate energy generated by the system rather than the power output of individual modules. The system-level limited module performance warranty is typically calculated as a percentage of a system’s expected energy production, adjusted for certain actual site conditions, with the warranted level of performance declining each year in a linear fashion, but never falling below 80% during the term of the warranty.

57

Table of Contents
When we recognize revenue for sales of modules or projects, we accrue liabilities for the estimated future costs of meeting our limited warranty obligations. We make and revise these estimates based primarily on the number of solar modules under warranty installed at customer locations, our historical experience with and projections of warranty claims, and our estimated per-module replacement costs. We also monitor our expected future module performance through certain quality and reliability testing and actual performance in certain field installation sites. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we revised this estimate based on updated information regarding our warranty claims, which reduced our product warranty liability by $10.2 million. This updated information reflected lower-than-expected warranty claims for our older series of module technology as well as the evolving claims profile of our newest series of module technology, resulting in reductions to our projected module return rates. In general, we expect the return rates for our Series 6 modules to be lower than our older series, and we estimate that the return rate for such newer series of module technology will be less than 1%. As of December 31, 2022, a 1% increase in the return rate across all series of module technology would increase our product warranty liability by $147.0 million.

Income Taxes. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. Such tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant taxing authorities. We make judgments and interpretations regarding the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes and also make estimates about when in the future certain items are expected to affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the relevant taxing authority upon examination or audit. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of assessments in each of our taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and future examinations, and we record tax liabilities as appropriate.

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we calculate our income tax provision based on our interpretation of the tax laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our current tax obligations, evaluate our ability and intent to permanently reinvest our accumulated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, assess uncertain tax positions, and assess temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. We must also assess the likelihood that each of our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization of any of our deferred tax assets is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a reporting period, we generally record a corresponding tax expense. Conversely, to the extent circumstances indicate that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, that portion of the valuation allowance is reversed, which generally reduces our overall income tax expense.

We establish liabilities for potential additional taxes based on our assessment of the outcome of our tax positions. Once established, we adjust these liabilities when additional information becomes available or when an event occurs requiring an adjustment. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and the actual cost of a tax assessment, fine, or penalty may ultimately be materially different from our recorded liabilities, if any.

We continually explore initiatives to better align our tax and legal entity structure with the footprint of our global operations and recognize the tax impact of these initiatives, including changes in the assessment of uncertain tax positions, indefinite reinvestment exception assertions, and the realizability of deferred tax assets, in the period when we believe all necessary internal and external approvals associated with such initiatives have been obtained, or when the initiatives are materially complete.

Asset Impairments. We assess long-lived assets classified as “held and used,” including our property, plant and equipment; operating lease assets; intangible assets; project assets; and PV solar power systems, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances arise, including consideration of technological obsolescence, that may indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and these assessments require significant judgment in determining whether such events or changes have occurred. These events or changes in circumstances may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset; a significant adverse change in the

58

Table of Contents
extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition; a significant adverse change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset; an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset; a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of such losses or a projection of future losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; or a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities, and we must also exercise judgment in assessing such groupings and levels.

When impairment indicators are present, we compare undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the asset group’s carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted cash flows for the asset group, (ii) third-party valuations, and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market value for such assets. If the fair value of an asset group is determined to be less than its carrying value, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and such projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[discussed under Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[described in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20
