================================================================================
CIK: 0000886982
Company Name: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-24
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 13:10:16
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Introduction
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc. or parent company), a Delaware corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, is a leading global financial institution that delivers a broad range of financial services to a large and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and individuals. Founded in 1869, we are headquartered in New York and maintain offices in all major financial centers around the world. We manage and report our activities in three business segments: Global Banking & Markets, Asset & Wealth Management and Platform Solutions. See “Results of Operations” for further information about our business segments.
When we use the terms “we,” “us” and “our,” we mean Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. When we use the term “our subsidiaries,” we mean the consolidated subsidiaries of Group Inc. References to “this Form 10-K” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. All references to “the consolidated financial statements” or “Supplemental Financial Information” are to Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. All references to 2022, 2021 and 2020 refer to our years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2022, December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. Any reference to a future year refers to a year ending on December 31 of that year.
Group Inc. is a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB).

In this discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, we have included information that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts or statements of current conditions, but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control.
By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results, financial condition, liquidity and capital actions may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results, financial condition, liquidity and capital actions in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our results, financial condition, liquidity and capital actions to differ from those in these statements include, among others, those described in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K and “Forward-Looking Statements” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 57

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

These statements may relate to, among other things, (i) our future plans and results, including our target ROE, ROTE, efficiency ratio, Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio and firmwide assets under supervision (AUS) inflows, and how they can be achieved, (ii) trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, including the timing, costs, profitability, benefits and other aspects of business and strategic initiatives and their impact on our efficiency ratio, (iii) our level of future compensation expense, including as a percentage of both operating expenses and revenues, net of provision for credit losses, (iv) our Investment banking fees backlog and future results, (v) our expected interest income and interest expense, (vi) our expense savings and strategic locations initiatives, (vii) expenses we may incur, including future litigation expense and expenses from investing in our platform solutions business, (viii) the projected growth of our deposits and other funding, asset liability management and funding strategies and related interest expense savings, (ix) our business initiatives, including transaction banking and new products in our consumer platforms business, (x) our planned 2023 benchmark debt issuances, (xi) the amount, composition and location of global core liquid assets (GCLA) we expect to hold, (xii) our credit exposures, (xiii) our expected provisions for credit losses, (xiv) the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses, (xv) the projected growth of our platform solutions business, (xvi) the objectives and effectiveness of our business continuity planning (BCP), information security program, risk management and liquidity policies, (xvii) our resolution plan and strategy and their implications for stakeholders, (xviii) the design and effectiveness of our resolution capital and liquidity models and triggers and alerts framework, (xix) the results of stress tests, the effect of changes to regulations, and our future status, activities or reporting under banking and financial regulation, (xx) our expected tax rate, (xxi) the future state of our liquidity and regulatory capital ratios, and our prospective capital distributions (including dividends and repurchases), (xxii) our expected SCB and global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge, (xxiii) legal proceedings, governmental investigations or other contingencies, (xxiv) the asset recovery guarantee and our remediation activities related to our 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) settlements, (xxv) the replacement of IBORs and our transition to alternative risk-free reference rates, (xxvi) the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on our business, results, financial position and liquidity, (xxvii) the effectiveness of our management of our human capital, including our diversity goals, (xxviii) our sustainability and carbon neutrality targets and goals, (xxix) future inflation and (xxx) the impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and related sanctions and other developments on our business, results and financial position.

Executive Overview
We generated net earnings of $11.26 billion for 2022, compared with $21.64 billion for 2021. Diluted earnings per common share (EPS) was $30.06 for 2022, compared with $59.45 for 2021. Return on average common shareholders’ equity (ROE) was 10.2% for 2022, compared with 23.0% for 2021. Book value per common share was $303.55 as of December 2022, 6.7% higher compared with December 2021.
Net revenues were $47.37 billion for 2022, 20% lower than a strong 2021, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in Asset & Wealth Management and lower net revenues in Global Banking & Markets, partially offset by significantly higher net revenues in Platform Solutions. Net revenues in Asset & Wealth Management primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in Equity investments and Debt investments. Net revenues in Global Banking & Markets primarily reflected significantly lower Investment banking fees compared with a strong prior year, partially offset by significantly higher net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency, and Commodities (FICC). Net revenues in Platform Solutions were significantly higher, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Consumer platforms.
Provision for credit losses was $2.72 billion for 2022, compared with $357 million for 2021. Provisions for 2022 primarily reflected growth in the credit card portfolio, the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns and net charge-offs. Provisions for 2021 reflected growth in the credit card and wholesale portfolios, largely offset by reserve reductions as the broader economic environment continued to improve following the initial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Operating expenses were $31.16 billion for 2022, 2% lower than 2021, primarily due to lower compensation and benefits expenses (reflecting a decline in operating performance compared with a strong prior year). This decrease was partially offset by higher non-compensation expenses, reflecting the inclusion of NN Investment Partners (NNIP) and GreenSky, Inc. (GreenSky) and increases in transaction based expenses and technology expenses. Our efficiency ratio (total operating expenses divided by total net revenues) was 65.8% for 2022, compared with 53.8% for 2021.
During 2022, we returned a total of $6.70 billion to shareholders, including common stock repurchases of $3.50 billion and common stock dividends of $3.20 billion. As of December 2022, our CET1 capital ratio was 15.1% under the Standardized Capital Rules and 14.4% under the Advanced Capital Rules. See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our capital ratios.

-- ----------------------------
58 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Business Environment
In 2022, the global economy was impacted by persistent broad macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the ongoing war, and inflationary and labor market pressures. Governments around the world responded to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine by imposing economic sanctions, and global central banks sought to address inflation by increasing policy interest rates several times over the course of the year. These factors contributed to increased market volatility during the year, as well as a decrease in global equity and bond prices and wider corporate credit spreads compared with the end of 2021.
The economic outlook remains uncertain, reflecting concerns about the continuation or escalation of the war between Russia and Ukraine and other geopolitical risks, inflation, and supply chain complications. See “Results of Operations — Segment Assets and Operating Results — Segment Operating Results” for further information about the operating environment for each of our business segments.

Critical Accounting Policies
Fair Value
Fair Value Hierarchy. Trading assets and liabilities, certain investments and loans, and certain other financial assets and liabilities, are included in our consolidated balance sheets at fair value (i.e., marked-to-market), with related gains or losses generally recognized in our consolidated statements of earnings. The use of fair value to measure financial instruments is fundamental to our risk management practices and is our most critical accounting policy.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We measure certain financial assets and liabilities as a portfolio (i.e., based on its net exposure to market and/or credit risks). In determining fair value, the hierarchy under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) gives (i) the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities (level 1 inputs), (ii) the next priority to inputs other than level 1 inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly (level 2 inputs), and (iii) the lowest priority to inputs that cannot be observed in market activity (level 3 inputs). In evaluating the significance of a valuation input, we consider, among other factors, a portfolio’s net risk exposure to that input. Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to their fair value measurement.

The fair values for substantially all of our financial assets and liabilities are based on observable prices and inputs and are classified in levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Certain level 2 and level 3 financial assets and liabilities may require appropriate valuation adjustments that a market participant would require to arrive at fair value for factors, such as counterparty and our credit quality, funding risk, transfer restrictions, liquidity and bid/offer spreads.
Instruments classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are those which require one or more significant inputs that are not observable. Level 3 financial assets represented 1.8% as of December 2022 and 1.6% as of December 2021 of our total assets. See Notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about level 3 financial assets, including changes in level 3 financial assets and related fair value measurements. Absent evidence to the contrary, instruments classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are initially valued at transaction price, which is considered to be the best initial estimate of fair value. Subsequent to the transaction date, we use other methodologies to determine fair value, which vary based on the type of instrument. Estimating the fair value of level 3 financial instruments requires judgments to be made. These judgments include:
•Determining the appropriate valuation methodology and/or model for each type of level 3 financial instrument;
•Determining model inputs based on an evaluation of all relevant empirical market data, including prices evidenced by market transactions, interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities and correlations; and
•Determining appropriate valuation adjustments, including those related to illiquidity or counterparty credit quality.
Regardless of the methodology, valuation inputs and assumptions are only changed when corroborated by substantive evidence.
Controls Over Valuation of Financial Instruments. Market makers and investment professionals in our revenue-producing units are responsible for pricing our financial instruments. Our control infrastructure is independent of the revenue-producing units and is fundamental to ensuring that all of our financial instruments are appropriately valued at market-clearing levels. In the event that there is a difference of opinion in situations where estimating the fair value of financial instruments requires judgment (e.g., calibration to market comparables or trade comparison, as described below), the final valuation decision is made by senior managers in independent risk oversight and control functions. This independent price verification is critical to ensuring that our financial instruments are properly valued.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 59

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Price Verification. All financial instruments at fair value classified in levels 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy are subject to our independent price verification process. The objective of price verification is to have an informed and independent opinion with regard to the valuation of financial instruments under review. Instruments that have one or more significant inputs which cannot be corroborated by external market data are classified in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Price verification strategies utilized by our independent risk oversight and control functions include:
•Trade Comparison. Analysis of trade data (both internal and external, where available) is used to determine the most relevant pricing inputs and valuations.
•External Price Comparison. Valuations and prices are compared to pricing data obtained from third parties (e.g., brokers or dealers, S&P Global Services, Bloomberg, ICE Data Services, Pricing Direct, TRACE). Data obtained from various sources is compared to ensure consistency and validity. When broker or dealer quotations or third-party pricing vendors are used for valuation or price verification, greater priority is generally given to executable quotations.
•Calibration to Market Comparables. Market-based transactions are used to corroborate the valuation of positions with similar characteristics, risks and components.
•Relative Value Analyses. Market-based transactions are analyzed to determine the similarity, measured in terms of risk, liquidity and return, of one instrument relative to another or, for a given instrument, of one maturity relative to another.
•Collateral Analyses. Margin calls on derivatives are analyzed to determine implied values, which are used to corroborate our valuations.
•Execution of Trades. Where appropriate, market-making desks are instructed to execute trades in order to provide evidence of market-clearing levels.
•Backtesting. Valuations are corroborated by comparison to values realized upon sales.
See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about fair value measurements.
Review of Net Revenues. Independent risk oversight and control functions ensure adherence to our pricing policy through a combination of daily procedures, including the explanation and attribution of net revenues based on the underlying factors. Through this process, we independently validate net revenues, identify and resolve potential fair value or trade booking issues on a timely basis and seek to ensure that risks are being properly categorized and quantified.

Review of Valuation Models. Our independent model risk management group (Model Risk), consisting of quantitative professionals who are separate from model developers, performs an independent model review and validation process of our valuation models. New or changed models are reviewed and approved prior to implementation. Models are reviewed annually to assess the impact of any changes in the product or market and any market developments in pricing theories. See “Risk Management — Model Risk Management” for further information about the review and validation of our valuation models.
Allowance for Credit Losses
We estimate and record an allowance for credit losses related to our loans held for investment that are accounted for at amortized cost. To determine the allowance for credit losses, we classify our loans accounted for at amortized cost into wholesale and consumer portfolios. These portfolios represent the level at which we have developed and documented our methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses is measured on a collective basis for loans that exhibit similar risk characteristics using a modeled approach and on an asset-specific basis for loans that do not share similar risk characteristics.
The allowance for credit losses takes into account the weighted average of a range of forecasts of future economic conditions over the expected life of the loans and lending commitments. The expected life of each loan or lending commitment is determined based on the contractual term adjusted for extension options or demand features, or is modeled in the case of revolving credit card loans. The forecasts include baseline, favorable and adverse economic scenarios over a three-year period. For loans with expected lives beyond three years, the model reverts to historical loss information based on a non-linear modeled approach. We apply judgment in weighting individual scenarios each quarter based on a variety of factors, including our internally derived economic outlook, market consensus, recent macroeconomic conditions and industry trends. The forecasted economic scenarios consider a number of risk factors relevant to the wholesale and consumer portfolios. Risk factors for wholesale loans include internal credit ratings, industry default and loss data, expected life, macroeconomic indicators (e.g., unemployment rates and GDP), the borrower’s capacity to meet its financial obligations, the borrower’s country of risk and industry, loan seniority and collateral type. In addition, for loans backed by real estate, risk factors include loan-to-value ratio, debt service ratio and home price index. Risk factors for installment and credit card loans include Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) credit scores, delinquency status, loan vintage and macroeconomic indicators.

-- ----------------------------
60 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The allowance for credit losses also includes qualitative components which allow management to reflect the uncertain nature of economic forecasting, capture uncertainty regarding model inputs, and account for model imprecision and concentration risk.
Our estimate of credit losses entails judgment about collectability at the reporting dates, and there are uncertainties inherent in those judgments. The allowance for credit losses is subject to a governance process that involves review and approval by senior management within our independent risk oversight and control functions. Personnel within our independent risk oversight and control functions are responsible for forecasting the economic variables that underlie the economic scenarios that are used in the modeling of expected credit losses. While we use the best information available to determine this estimate, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary based on, among other things, changes in the economic environment or variances between actual results and the original assumptions used. Loans are charged off against the allowance for loan losses when deemed to be uncollectible.
We also record an allowance for credit losses on lending commitments which are held for investment that are accounted for at amortized cost. Such allowance is determined using the same methodology as the allowance for loan losses, while also taking into consideration the probability of drawdowns or funding, and whether such commitments are cancellable by us.
To estimate the potential impact of an adverse macroeconomic environment on our allowance for credit losses, we, among other things, compared the expected credit losses under the weighted average forecast used in the calculation of allowance for credit losses as of December 2022 (which was weighted towards the baseline and adverse economic scenarios) to the expected credit losses under a 100% weighted adverse economic scenario. The adverse economic scenario of the forecast model reflects a global recession in 2023 and a more aggressive tightening of monetary policy by central banks, resulting in an economic contraction and rising unemployment rates. A 100% weighting to the adverse economic scenario would have resulted in an approximate $1.0 billion increase in our allowance for credit losses as of December 2022. This hypothetical increase does not take into consideration any potential adjustments to qualitative reserves. The forecasts of macroeconomic conditions are inherently uncertain and do not take into account any other offsetting or correlated effects. The actual credit loss in an adverse macroeconomic environment may differ significantly from this estimate. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the allowance for credit losses.

Use of Estimates
U.S. GAAP requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions. In addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value measurements and the allowance for credit losses on loans and lending commitments held for investment and accounted for at amortized cost, the use of estimates and assumptions is also important in determining the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, provisions for losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings (including governmental investigations), and accounting for income taxes.
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that indicate an impairment may exist. When assessing goodwill for impairment, first, a qualitative assessment can be made to determine whether it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If the results of the qualitative assessment are not conclusive, a quantitative goodwill test is performed. Alternatively, a quantitative goodwill test can be performed without performing a qualitative assessment. Estimating the fair value of our reporting units requires judgment. Critical inputs to the fair value estimates include projected earnings and allocated equity. There is inherent uncertainty in the projected earnings. The carrying value of each reporting unit reflects an allocation of total shareholders’ equity and represents the estimated amount of total shareholders’ equity required to support the activities of the reporting unit under currently applicable regulatory capital requirements. The estimated fair value of our Consumer platforms reporting unit, which represents approximately 7.5% of our goodwill, was not substantially in excess of its carrying value. This reporting unit has been adversely impacted by the recent operating environment generally characterized by broad macroeconomic concerns. We will continue to closely monitor it to determine whether an impairment is required in the future. As of December 2022, the goodwill related to the Consumer platforms reporting unit was $482 million. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about goodwill. If we experience a prolonged or severe period of weakness in the business environment, financial markets, the performance of one or more of our reporting units or our common stock price, or additional increases in capital requirements, our goodwill could be impaired in the future.
Identifiable intangible assets are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying value may not be fully recoverable. Judgment is required to evaluate whether indications of potential impairment have occurred, and to test identifiable intangible assets for impairment, if required. An impairment is recognized if the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about identifiable intangible assets.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 61

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

We also estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. In addition, we estimate the upper end of the range of reasonably possible aggregate loss in excess of the related reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings where we believe the risk of loss is more than slight. See Notes 18 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements for information about certain judicial, litigation and regulatory proceedings. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different. Our total estimated liability in respect of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case-by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, proceeding or investigation, our experience and the experience of others in similar cases, proceedings or investigations, and the opinions and views of legal counsel.
In accounting for income taxes, we recognize tax positions in the financial statements only when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on examination by the relevant taxing authority based on the technical merits of the position. As of December 2022, our net liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $1.22 billion. We use estimates to recognize current and deferred income taxes in the U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. The income tax laws in these jurisdictions are complex and can be subject to different interpretations between taxpayers and taxing authorities. Disputes may arise over these interpretations and can be settled by audit, administrative appeals or judicial proceedings. Our interpretations are reevaluated quarterly based on guidance currently available, tax examination experience and the opinions of legal counsel, among other factors. We recognize deferred taxes based on the amount that will more likely than not be realized in the future based on enacted income tax laws. As of December 2022, we had $8.93 billion of deferred tax assets with a related valuation allowance of $1.57 billion. Our estimate for deferred taxes includes estimates for future taxable earnings, including the level and character of those earnings, and various tax planning strategies. See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about income taxes.

Recent Accounting Developments
See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for information about Recent Accounting Developments.

Results of Operations
The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed. The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and market conditions. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information about the impact of economic and market conditions on our results of operations.
Financial Overview
The table below presents an overview of our financial results and selected financial ratios.

--------------------------------------- ------------------- ------ ---- ---- ------ ---- - - ------
 Year Ended December

$ in millions, except per share amounts 2022 2021 2020
Net revenues $ 47,365 $ 59,339 $ 44,560
Pre-tax earnings $ 13,486 $ 27,044 $ 12,479
Net earnings $ 11,261 $ 21,635 $ 9,459
Net earnings to common $ 10,764 $ 21,151 $ 8,915
Diluted EPS $ 30.06 $ 59.45 $ 24.74
ROE 10.2 % 23.0 % 11.1 %
ROTE 11.0 % 24.3 % 11.8 %
Net earnings to average assets 0.7 % 1.6 % 0.8 %
Return on shareholders’ equity 9.7 % 21.3 % 10.3 %
Average equity to average assets 7.5 % 7.4 % 8.2 %
Dividend payout ratio 29.9 % 10.9 % 20.2 %

In the table above:
•Net earnings to common represents net earnings applicable to common shareholders, which is calculated as net earnings less preferred stock dividends.
•ROE is calculated by dividing net earnings to common by average monthly common shareholders’ equity. Tangible common shareholders’ equity is calculated as total shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets.
•Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity (ROTE) is calculated by dividing net earnings to common by average monthly tangible common shareholders’ equity. We believe that tangible common shareholders’ equity is meaningful because it is a measure that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy and that ROTE is meaningful because it measures the performance of businesses consistently, whether they were acquired or developed internally. Tangible common shareholders’ equity and ROTE are non-GAAP measures and may not be comparable to similar non-GAAP measures used by other companies.

-- ----------------------------
62 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents our average equity and the reconciliation of average common shareholders’ equity to average tangible common shareholders’ equity.

------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- -------- - ------
 Average for the Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Total shareholders’ equity $ 115,990 $ 101,705 $ 91,779
Preferred stock (10,703) (9,876) (11,203)
Common shareholders’ equity 105,287 91,829 80,576
Goodwill (5,726) (4,327) (4,238)
Identifiable intangible assets (1,583) (536) (617)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 97,978 $ 86,966 $ 75,721

•Net earnings to average assets is calculated by dividing net earnings by average total assets.
•Return on shareholders’ equity is calculated by dividing net earnings by average monthly shareholders’ equity.
•Average equity to average assets is calculated by dividing average total shareholders’ equity by average total assets.
•Dividend payout ratio is calculated by dividing dividends declared per common share by diluted EPS.
Net Revenues
The table below presents our net revenues by line item.

---------------------------- ------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ------ - ------
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Investment banking $ 7,360 $ 14,136 $ 9,100
Investment management 9,005 8,171 6,986
Commissions and fees 4,034 3,590 3,539
Market making 18,634 15,357 15,428
Other principal transactions 654 11,615 4,756
Total non-interest revenues 39,687 52,869 39,809
Interest income 29,024 12,120 13,689
Interest expense 21,346 5,650 8,938
Net interest income 7,678 6,470 4,751
Total net revenues $ 47,365 $ 59,339 $ 44,560

In the table above:
•Investment banking consists of revenues (excluding net interest) from financial advisory and underwriting assignments. These activities are included in Global Banking & Markets.
•Investment management consists of revenues (excluding net interest) from providing asset management and wealth advisory services across all major asset classes to a diverse set of clients. These activities are included in Asset & Wealth Management.
•Commissions and fees consists of revenues from executing and clearing client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, as well as over-the-counter (OTC) transactions. Substantially all of these activities are included in Global Banking & Markets.
•Market making consists of revenues (excluding net interest) from client execution activities related to making markets in interest rate products, credit products, mortgages, currencies, commodities and equity products. These activities are included in Global Banking & Markets.

•Other principal transactions consists of revenues (excluding net interest) from our equity investing activities, including revenues related to our consolidated investments (included in Asset & Wealth Management), and debt investing and lending activities (included across our three segments).
Operating Environment. During 2022, the operating environment was characterized by broad macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns and market volatility, which contributed to a decrease in global equity and bond prices and wider corporate credit spreads compared with the end of 2021. These factors contributed to solid market-making activity levels and a decline in industry-wide investment banking activity, particularly for underwriting. In the U.S., the rate of unemployment remained low and consumer spending increased slightly compared with 2021.
If concerns about the economic outlook grow, including those about the continuation or escalation of geopolitical concerns, inflation and supply chain complications, and the persistence of COVID-19-related effects, it may lead to a continued decline in asset prices, or a decline in market-making activity levels, or a continued decline in investment banking activity levels, and net revenues and provision for credit losses would likely be negatively impacted. See “Segment Assets and Operating Results — Segment Operating Results” for information about the operating environment and material trends and uncertainties that may impact our results of operations.
2022 versus 2021
Net revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $47.37 billion for 2022, 20% lower than a strong 2021, primarily reflecting significantly lower other principal transactions revenues and investment banking revenues, partially offset by significantly higher market making revenues.
Non-Interest Revenues. Investment banking revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $7.36 billion for 2022, 48% lower than a strong 2021, due to significantly lower revenues in both equity and debt underwriting, reflecting a significant decline in industry-wide volumes, and lower revenues in advisory, reflecting a decline in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions transactions from elevated activity levels in the prior year.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 63

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Investment management revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $9.01 billion for 2022, 10% higher than 2021, due to higher management and other fees, reflecting the inclusion of NNIP and a reduction in fee waivers on money market funds.
Commissions and fees in the consolidated statements of earnings were $4.03 billion for 2022, 12% higher than 2021, primarily due to higher commissions and fees in Equities, reflecting generally higher volumes.
Market making revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $18.63 billion for 2022, 21% higher than 2021, primarily reflecting significantly higher revenues in interest rate products, currencies and commodities, partially offset by lower revenues in equity products.
Other principal transactions revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $654 million for 2022, compared with $11.62 billion for 2021, primarily reflecting significantly lower net gains from investments in private equities, significant mark-to-market net losses from investments in public equities and net mark-downs in debt investments compared with net mark-ups in 2021.
Net Interest Income. Net interest income in the consolidated statements of earnings was $7.68 billion for 2022, 19% higher than 2021, reflecting an increase in interest income primarily related to collateralized agreements, other interest-earning assets and deposits with banks, each reflecting the impact of higher average interest rates, and loans, reflecting the impact of higher average balances and higher average interest rates. The increase in interest income was partially offset by an increase in interest expense primarily related to other interest-bearing liabilities, collateralized financings, and borrowings, each reflecting the impact of higher average interest rates, and deposits, reflecting the impact of higher average interest rates and higher average balances. See “Statistical Disclosures – Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity” for further information about our sources of net interest income.
2021 versus 2020
Net revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $59.34 billion for 2021, 33% higher than 2020, reflecting significantly higher other principal transactions revenues, investment banking revenues and net interest income, and higher investment management revenues.
Non-Interest Revenues. Investment banking revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $14.14 billion for 2021, 55% higher than 2020, due to significantly higher revenues in advisory, reflecting a significant increase in completed mergers and acquisitions volumes, in equity underwriting, primarily driven by strong industry-wide initial public offerings activity, and in debt underwriting, primarily reflecting elevated industry-wide leveraged finance activity.

Investment management revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $8.17 billion for 2021, 17% higher than 2020, primarily due to higher management and other fees, reflecting the impact of higher average assets under supervision, partially offset by higher fee waivers on money market funds. In addition, incentive fees were significantly higher, primarily driven by harvesting.
Commissions and fees in the consolidated statements of earnings were $3.59 billion for 2021, essentially unchanged compared with 2020.
Market making revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $15.36 billion for 2021, essentially unchanged compared with 2020, as significantly lower revenues in interest rate products and credit products were largely offset by significantly higher revenues in equity products (primarily in derivatives) and commodities, and improved results in mortgages.
Other principal transactions revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings were $11.62 billion for 2021, compared with $4.76 billion for 2020, primarily reflecting significantly higher net gains from investments in private equities and in debt instruments, partially offset by net losses from investments in public equities compared with significant net gains in 2020.
Net Interest Income. Net interest income in the consolidated statements of earnings was $6.47 billion for 2021, 36% higher than 2020, reflecting a decrease in interest expense, partially offset by a decrease in interest income. The decrease in interest expense is primarily related to other interest-bearing liabilities, deposits and long-term borrowings, each reflecting the impact of lower interest rates. The decrease in interest income primarily related to collateralized agreements and trading assets, both reflecting the impact of lower interest rates, partially offset by the impact of higher average balances for loans. See “Supplemental Financial Information — Statistical Disclosures — Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity” for further information about our sources of net interest income.
Provision for Credit Losses
Provision for credit losses consists of provision for credit losses on loans and lending commitments held for investment and accounted for at amortized cost. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the provision for credit losses.
The table below presents our provision for credit losses.

--------------------------- ------------------- ----- ---- --- - -----
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Provision for credit losses $ 2,715 $ 357 $ 3,098

-- ----------------------------
64 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

2022 versus 2021. Provision for credit losses in the consolidated statements of earnings was $2.72 billion for 2022, compared with $357 million for 2021. Provisions for 2022 primarily reflected growth in the credit card portfolio, the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns and net charge-offs. Provisions for 2021 reflected portfolio growth in the credit card and wholesale portfolios, largely offset by reserve reductions as the broader economic environment continued to improve following the initial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
2021 versus 2020. Provision for credit losses in the consolidated statements of earnings was $357 million for 2021, compared with $3.10 billion for 2020. Provisions for 2021 reflected portfolio growth (primarily in credit cards, including approximately $185 million of provisions related to the commitment to acquire the General Motors co-branded credit card portfolio), largely offset by reserve reductions on wholesale and consumer loans reflecting continued improvement in the broader economic environment. This followed challenging conditions in the prior year as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which contributed to significant provisions in 2020.
Operating Expenses
Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation, headcount and levels of business activity. Compensation and benefits includes salaries, year-end discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits. Discretionary compensation is significantly impacted by, among other factors, the level of net revenues, net of provision for credit losses, overall financial performance, prevailing labor markets, business mix, the structure of our share-based compensation programs and the external environment.
The table below presents our operating expenses by line item and headcount.

----------------------------- ------------------- ------ ----- ------ ------ ----- - ------
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Compensation and benefits $ 15,148 $ 17,719 $ 13,309
Transaction based 5,312 4,710 4,141
Market development 812 553 401
Communications and technology 1,808 1,573 1,347
Depreciation and amortization 2,455 2,015 1,902
Occupancy 1,026 981 960
Professional fees 1,887 1,648 1,306
Other expenses 2,716 2,739 5,617
Total operating expenses $ 31,164 $ 31,938 $ 28,983
Headcount at period-end 48,500 43,900 40,500

2022 versus 2021. Operating expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings were $31.16 billion for 2022, 2% lower than 2021. Our efficiency ratio was 65.8% for 2022, compared with our medium-term target efficiency ratio of approximately 60%. Our efficiency ratio was 53.8% for 2021.
The decrease in operating expenses compared with 2021 was primarily due to lower compensation and benefits expenses (reflecting a decline in operating performance compared with a strong prior year). This decrease was partially offset by higher non-compensation expenses, reflecting the inclusion of NNIP and GreenSky and increases in transaction based expenses and technology expenses. While certain expenses (e.g., compensation and benefits, occupancy and market development) were impacted by inflationary pressures, the overall impact of higher inflation was not material to our operating expenses for 2022.
Net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings were $576 million for 2022 compared with $534 million for 2021.
Headcount increased 10% during 2022, primarily reflecting investments in growth initiatives and the acquisitions of NNIP and GreenSky.
2021 versus 2020. Operating expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings were $31.94 billion for 2021, 10% higher than 2020. Our efficiency ratio was 53.8% for 2021, compared with 65.0% for 2020. In 2020, net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings increased our efficiency ratio by 7.6 percentage points.
The increase in operating expenses compared with 2020 primarily reflected significantly higher compensation and benefits expenses (reflecting strong performance). In addition, technology expenses and professional fees were significantly higher and transaction based expenses were higher. These increases were partially offset by significantly lower net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings and lower expenses related to consolidated investments (including impairments).
Net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings were $534 million for 2021 compared with $3.42 billion for 2020.
Charitable contributions to Goldman Sachs Gives were approximately $250 million for 2021.
Headcount increased 8% during 2021, reflecting investments in growth initiatives and an increase in technology professionals.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 65

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Provision for Taxes
The effective income tax rate for 2022 was 16.5%, down from the full year income tax rate of 20.0% for 2021, primarily due to an increase in the impact of permanent tax benefits, partially offset by changes in the geographic mix of earnings in 2022 compared with 2021.
The U.K. Finance Act 2021 increased the corporate income tax rate by six percent and the Finance Act 2022 decreased the U.K. bank surcharge tax rate by five percent effective from April 1, 2023. As a result, beginning April 1, 2023, the U.K. tax rate for our U.K. regulated broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries and branches, including Goldman Sachs International (GSI) and Goldman Sachs International Bank (GSIB), will increase by one percent and the U.K. tax rate for all other U.K. subsidiaries and branches will increase by six percent. During 2022, following Royal Assent of Finance Act 2022, certain U.K. deferred tax assets and liabilities were remeasured and a net reduction in deferred tax assets of approximately $50 million was recognized.
In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 includes income tax incentives to encourage investments in clean energy and a new 15% corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT). The CAMT applies to corporations with average annual profits over $1 billion and is calculated on their financial statement income, with certain adjustments, for years beginning after December 31, 2022. The legislation had no impact on our 2022 annual effective tax rate and based on our current understanding of the CAMT, is not expected to have a material impact on our 2023 annual effective tax rate.
Segment Assets and Operating Results
Segment Assets. The table below presents assets by segment.

------------------------- -------------- --------- ------- - ---------
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Global Banking & Markets $ 1,169,539 $ 1,201,996
Asset & Wealth Management 214,970 221,150
Platform Solutions 57,290 40,842
Total $ 1,441,799 $ 1,463,988

The allocation process for segment assets is based on the activities of these segments. The allocation of assets includes allocation of GCLA (which consists of unencumbered, highly liquid securities and cash), which is generally included within cash and cash equivalents, collateralized agreements and trading assets on our balance sheet. Due to the integrated nature of these segments, estimates and judgments are made in allocating these assets. See “Risk Management — Liquidity Risk Management” for further information about our GCLA.

Segment Operating Results. The table below presents our segment operating results.

------------------------------- ------------------- ------- ------ ---- ------- ------ - - ------
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Global Banking & Markets
Net revenues $ 32,487 $ 36,734 $ 30,469
Provision for credit losses 468 (171) 1,216
Operating expenses 17,851 19,542 18,884
Pre-tax earnings $ 14,168 $ 17,363 $ 10,369
Net earnings to common $ 11,458 $ 13,535 $ 7,428
Average common equity $ 69,951 $ 60,064 $ 54,749
Return on average common equity 16.4 % 22.5 % 13.6 %

Asset & Wealth Management
Net revenues $ 13,376 $ 21,965 $ 13,757
Provision for credit losses 519 (169) 1,395
Operating expenses 11,550 11,406 9,469
Pre-tax earnings $ 1,307 $ 10,728 $ 2,893
Net earnings to common $ 979 $ 8,459 $ 2,083
Average common equity $ 31,762 $ 29,988 $ 24,963
Return on average common equity 3.1 % 28.2 % 8.3 %

Platform Solutions
Net revenues $ 1,502 $ 640 $ 334
Provision for credit losses 1,728 697 487
Operating expenses 1,763 990 630
Pre-tax earnings/(loss) $ (1,989) $ (1,047) $ (783)
Net earnings/(loss) to common $ (1,673) $ (843) $ (596)
Average common equity $ 3,574 $ 1,777 $ 864
Return on average common equity (46.8) % (47.4) % (69.0) %

Total
Net revenues $ 47,365 $ 59,339 $ 44,560
Provision for credit losses 2,715 357 3,098
Operating expenses 31,164 31,938 28,983
Pre-tax earnings $ 13,486 $ 27,044 $ 12,479
Net earnings to common $ 10,764 $ 21,151 $ 8,915
Average common equity $ 105,287 $ 91,829 $ 80,576
Return on average common equity 10.2 % 23.0 % 11.1 %

Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest income and expense to specific positions in relation to the cash generated by, or funding requirements of, such positions. See Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our business segments.
The allocation of common shareholders’ equity and preferred stock dividends to each segment is based on the estimated amount of equity required to support the activities of the segment under relevant regulatory capital requirements. Net earnings for each segment is calculated by applying the firmwide tax rate to each segment’s pre-tax earnings.
Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments reflect, among other factors, our overall performance, as well as the performance of individual businesses. Consequently, pre-tax margins in one segment of our business may be significantly affected by the performance of our other business segments. A description of segment operating results follows.

-- ----------------------------
66 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Global Banking & Markets
Global Banking & Markets generates revenues from the following:
Investment banking fees. We provide advisory and underwriting services and help companies raise capital to strengthen and grow their businesses. Investment banking fees includes the following:
•Advisory. Includes strategic advisory assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and spin-offs.
•Underwriting. Includes public offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities and other financial instruments, including local and cross-border transactions and acquisition financing.
FICC. FICC generates revenues from intermediation and financing activities.
•FICC intermediation. Includes client execution activities related to making markets in both cash and derivative instruments, as detailed below.
Interest Rate Products. Government bonds (including inflation-linked securities) across maturities, other government-backed securities, and interest rate swaps, options and other derivatives.
Credit Products. Investment-grade and high-yield corporate securities, credit derivatives, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), bank and bridge loans, municipal securities, distressed debt and trade claims.
Mortgages. Commercial mortgage-related securities, loans and derivatives, residential mortgage-related securities, loans and derivatives (including U.S. government agency-issued collateralized mortgage obligations and other securities and loans), and other asset-backed securities, loans and derivatives.
Currencies. Currency options, spot/forwards and other derivatives on G-10 currencies and emerging-market products.
Commodities. Commodity derivatives and, to a lesser extent, physical commodities, involving crude oil and petroleum products, natural gas, agricultural, base, precious and other metals, electricity, including renewable power, environmental products and other commodity products.

•FICC financing. Includes secured lending to our clients through structured credit and asset-backed lending, including warehouse loans backed by mortgages (including residential and commercial mortgage loans), corporate loans and consumer loans (including auto loans and private student loans). We also provide financing to clients through securities purchased under agreements to resell (resale agreements).
Equities. Equities generates revenues from intermediation and financing activities.
•Equities intermediation. We make markets in equity securities and equity-related products, including ETFs, convertible securities, options, futures and OTC derivative instruments. We also structure and make markets in derivatives on indices, industry sectors, financial measures and individual company stocks. Our exchange-based market-making activities include making markets in stocks and ETFs, futures and options on major exchanges worldwide. In addition, we generate commissions and fees from executing and clearing institutional client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, as well as OTC transactions.
•Equities financing. Includes prime brokerage and other equities financing activities, including securities lending, margin lending and swaps. We earn fees by providing clearing, settlement and custody services globally. We provide services that principally involve borrowing and lending securities to cover institutional clients’ short sales and borrowing securities to cover our short sales and to make deliveries into the market. In addition, we are an active participant in broker-to-broker securities lending and third-party agency lending activities. We provide financing to our clients for their securities trading activities through margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable collateral and provide securities-based loans to individuals. In addition, we execute swap transactions to provide our clients with exposure to securities and indices.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 67

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Market-Making Activities
As a market maker, we facilitate transactions in both liquid and less liquid markets, primarily for institutional clients, such as corporations, financial institutions, investment funds and governments, to assist clients in meeting their investment objectives and in managing their risks. In this role, we seek to earn the difference between the price at which a market participant is willing to sell an instrument to us and the price at which another market participant is willing to buy it from us, and vice versa (i.e., bid/offer spread). In addition, we maintain (i) market-making positions, typically for a short period of time, in response to, or in anticipation of, client demand, and (ii) positions to actively manage our risk exposures that arise from these market-making activities (collectively, inventory). Our inventory is recorded in trading assets (long positions) or trading liabilities (short positions) in our consolidated balance sheets.
Our results are influenced by a combination of interconnected drivers, including (i) client activity levels and transactional bid/offer spreads (collectively, client activity), and (ii) changes in the fair value of our inventory and interest income and interest expense related to the holding, hedging and funding of our inventory (collectively, market-making inventory changes). Due to the integrated nature of our market-making activities, disaggregation of net revenues into client activity and market-making inventory changes is judgmental and has inherent complexities and limitations.
The amount and composition of our net revenues vary over time as these drivers are impacted by multiple interrelated factors affecting economic and market conditions, including volatility and liquidity in the market, changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, credit spreads, equity prices and commodity prices, investor confidence, and other macroeconomic concerns and uncertainties.
In general, assuming all other market-making conditions remain constant, increases in client activity levels or bid/offer spreads tend to result in increases in net revenues, and decreases tend to have the opposite effect. However, changes in market-making conditions can materially impact client activity levels and bid/offer spreads, as well as the fair value of our inventory. For example, a decrease in liquidity in the market could have the impact of (i) increasing our bid/offer spread, (ii) decreasing investor confidence and thereby decreasing client activity levels, and (iii) widening of credit spreads on our inventory positions.
Other. We lend to corporate clients, including through relationship lending and acquisition financing. The hedges related to this lending and financing activity are also reported as part of Other. Other also includes equity and debt investing activities related to our Global Banking & Markets activities.

The table below presents our Global Banking & Markets assets.

------------------------------ -------------- --------- ------- - ---------
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Cash and cash equivalents $ 167,203 $ 178,359
Collateralized agreements 380,157 359,100
Customer and other receivables 122,037 147,958
Trading assets 272,788 351,920
Investments 103,229 56,228
Loans 107,648 94,597
Other assets 16,477 13,834
Total $ 1,169,539 $ 1,201,996

The table below presents details about our Global Banking & Markets loans.

------------------------- -------------- ------- ------ - ------
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Corporate $ 25,776 $ 22,068
Real estate 33,215 34,986
Securities-based 3,857 3,017
Other collateralized 45,407 33,077
Other 561 2,311
Loans, gross 108,816 95,459
Allowance for loan losses (1,168) (862)
Total loans $ 107,648 $ 94,597

Our average Global Banking & Markets gross loans were $105.11 billion for 2022 and $74.34 billion for 2021.
The table below presents our Global Banking & Markets operating results.

------------------------------- ------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ------ - - ------
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Advisory $ 4,704 $ 5,654 $ 3,064
Equity underwriting 848 4,985 3,376
Debt underwriting 1,808 3,497 2,660
Investment banking fees 7,360 14,136 9,100
FICC intermediation 11,890 8,714 10,106
FICC financing 2,786 1,897 1,347
FICC 14,676 10,611 11,453
Equities intermediation 6,662 7,707 7,069
Equities financing 4,326 4,015 2,815
Equities 10,988 11,722 9,884
Other (537) 265 32
Net revenues 32,487 36,734 30,469
Provision for credit losses 468 (171) 1,216
Operating expenses 17,851 19,542 18,884
Pre-tax earnings 14,168 17,363 10,369
Provision for taxes 2,338 3,473 2,509
Net earnings 11,830 13,890 7,860
Preferred stock dividends 372 355 432
Net earnings to common $ 11,458 $ 13,535 $ 7,428

Average common equity $ 69,951 $ 60,064 $ 54,749
Return on average common equity 16.4 % 22.5 % 13.6 %

-- ----------------------------
68 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents our FICC and Equities net revenues by line item in the consolidated statements of earnings.

---------------------------- ----- -------- ----- - ------
$ in millions FICC Equities
Year Ended December 2022
Market making $ 12,422 $ 6,212
Commissions and fees – 3,791
Other principal transactions 377 41
Net interest income 1,877 944
Total $ 14,676 $ 10,988
Year Ended December 2021
Market making $ 7,690 $ 7,667
Commissions and fees – 3,514
Other principal transactions 362 72
Net interest income 2,559 469
Total $ 10,611 $ 11,722
Year Ended December 2020
Market making $ 8,941 $ 6,487
Commissions and fees – 3,339
Other principal transactions 96 9
Net interest income 2,416 49
Total $ 11,453 $ 9,884

In the table above:
•See “Net Revenues” for information about market making revenues, commissions and fees, other principal transactions revenues and net interest income. See Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements for net interest income by segment.
•The primary driver of net revenues for FICC intermediation for all periods was client activity.

The table below presents our unaudited quarterly Global Banking & Markets operating results.

--------------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ----- ----- ----- - -----
 First Second Third Fourth
$ in millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter
 2022
Advisory $ 1,127 $ 1,197 $ 972 $ 1,408
Equity underwriting 276 145 244 183
Debt underwriting 741 457 328 282
Investment banking fees 2,144 1,799 1,544 1,873
FICC intermediation 4,099 2,921 2,896 1,974
FICC financing 631 721 721 713
FICC 4,730 3,642 3,617 2,687
Equities intermediation 2,178 1,767 1,608 1,109
Equities financing 1,061 1,177 1,124 964
Equities 3,239 2,944 2,732 2,073
Other (51) (43) (329) (114)
Net revenues 10,062 8,342 7,564 6,519
Provision for credit losses 191 208 63 6
Operating expenses 4,973 4,431 4,224 4,223
Pre-tax earnings $ 4,898 $ 3,703 $ 3,277 $ 2,290

 2021
Advisory $ 1,117 $ 1,257 $ 1,649 $ 1,631
Equity underwriting 1,539 1,256 1,167 1,023
Debt underwriting 877 949 724 947
Investment banking fees 3,533 3,462 3,540 3,601
FICC intermediation 3,472 1,922 2,007 1,313
FICC financing 435 395 512 555
FICC 3,907 2,317 2,519 1,868
Equities intermediation 2,620 1,795 1,949 1,343
Equities financing 1,084 887 1,207 837
Equities 3,704 2,682 3,156 2,180
Other 170 239 (85) (59)
Net revenues 11,314 8,700 9,130 7,590
Provision for credit losses (99) (46) (10) (16)
Operating expenses 5,892 5,470 4,090 4,090
Pre-tax earnings $ 5,521 $ 3,276 $ 5,050 $ 3,516

 2020
Advisory $ 780 $ 687 $ 506 $ 1,091
Equity underwriting 377 1,050 843 1,106
Debt underwriting 576 988 571 525
Investment banking fees 1,733 2,725 1,920 2,722
FICC intermediation 2,496 3,831 2,232 1,547
FICC financing 435 302 278 332
FICC 2,931 4,133 2,510 1,879
Equities intermediation 1,533 2,217 1,497 1,822
Equities financing 729 900 580 606
Equities 2,262 3,117 2,077 2,428
Other 351 (151) (36) (132)
Net revenues 7,277 9,824 6,471 6,897
Provision for credit losses 564 702 (9) (41)
Operating expenses 4,007 7,777 3,510 3,590
Pre-tax earnings $ 2,706 $ 1,345 $ 2,970 $ 3,348

The table below presents our financial advisory and underwriting transaction volumes.

----------------------------------- ------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December

$ in billions 2022 2021 2020
Announced mergers and acquisitions $ 1,237 $ 1,771 $ 904
Completed mergers and acquisitions $ 1,355 $ 1,588 $ 1,037
Equity and equity-related offerings $ 33 $ 140 $ 115
Debt offerings $ 222 $ 341 $ 352

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 69

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

In the table above:
•Volumes are per Dealogic.
•Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related and debt offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or a change in the value of a transaction.
•Equity and equity-related offerings includes Rule 144A and public common stock offerings, convertible offerings and rights offerings.
•Debt offerings includes non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. It also includes publicly registered and Rule 144A issues and excludes leveraged loans.
Operating Environment. During 2022, Global Banking & Markets operated in an environment generally characterized by broad macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns and market volatility, which negatively affected industry-wide investment banking activity levels, particularly for underwriting, but contributed to solid market-making activity levels.
In investment banking, compared with 2021, industry-wide equity underwriting volumes were low amid volatile equity markets and a decline in prices, and industry-wide debt underwriting volumes declined across leveraged finance and investment grade issuances amid rising interest rates. Additionally, industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions transactions declined from elevated levels in the prior year.
For volatility, the average daily VIX was 30% higher compared with 2021. In equities, the S&P 500 Index decreased by 19% and the MSCI World Index decreased by 20%, compared with the end of 2021. Additionally, global central banks sought to address inflation by increasing policy interest rates several times over the course of the year.
In the future, if market and economic conditions deteriorate further, and activity levels or volatility decline, or credit spreads related to hedges on our relationship lending portfolio tighten, net revenues in Global Banking & Markets would likely be negatively impacted. In addition, if economic conditions deteriorate further or if the creditworthiness of borrowers deteriorates, provision for credit losses would likely be negatively impacted.

2022 versus 2021. Net revenues in Global Banking & Markets were $32.49 billion for 2022, 12% lower than a strong 2021.
Investment banking fees were $7.36 billion, 48% lower than a strong 2021, due to significantly lower net revenues in both Equity and Debt underwriting, reflecting a significant decline in industry-wide volumes, and lower net revenues in Advisory, reflecting a decline in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions transactions from elevated activity levels in the prior year.
As of December 2022, our Investment banking fees backlog decreased significantly compared with the end of 2021, primarily due to significantly lower estimated net revenues from both potential advisory transactions and potential debt underwriting transactions (primarily from leveraged finance transactions).
Our backlog represents an estimate of our net revenues from future transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not. We believe changes in our backlog may be a useful indicator of client activity levels which, over the long term, impact our net revenues. However, the time frame for completion and corresponding revenue recognition of transactions in our backlog varies based on the nature of the assignment, as certain transactions may remain in our backlog for longer periods of time. In addition, our backlog is subject to certain limitations, such as assumptions about the likelihood that individual client transactions will occur in the future. Transactions may be cancelled or modified, and transactions not included in the estimate may also occur.
Net revenues in FICC were $14.68 billion, 38% higher than 2021, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in FICC intermediation, driven by significantly higher net revenues in interest rate products, currencies and commodities, partially offset by significantly lower net revenues in mortgages and lower net revenues in credit products. In addition, net revenues in FICC financing were significantly higher, primarily driven by secured lending.
The increase in FICC intermediation net revenues reflected significantly higher client activity as we supported clients amid an evolving macroeconomic environment. The following provides information about our FICC intermediation net revenues by business, compared with 2021 results:
•Net revenues in interest rate products, currencies and commodities primarily reflected higher client activity.
•Net revenues in mortgages and credit products primarily reflected the impact of challenging market-making conditions on our inventory.

-- ----------------------------
70 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Net revenues in Equities were $10.99 billion, 6% lower than 2021, due to lower net revenues in Equities intermediation, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in cash products and lower net revenues in derivatives. Net revenues in Equities financing were higher, primarily reflecting increased client activity.
Net revenues in Other were $(537) million for 2022, compared with $265 million for 2021, reflecting significantly lower net gains from investments in equities and net mark-downs on acquisition financing activities.
Provision for credit losses was $468 million for 2022, compared with a net benefit of $171 million for 2021. Provisions for 2022 primarily reflected the impact of broad macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns, while the net benefit for 2021 reflected reserve reductions as the broad economic environment continued to improve following the initial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by growth in the portfolio.
Operating expenses were $17.85 billion for 2022, 9% lower than 2021, reflecting lower compensation and benefits expenses (reflecting a decline in operating performance compared with a strong prior year). Pre-tax earnings were $14.17 billion for 2022, 18% lower than 2021.
2021 versus 2020. Net revenues in Global Banking & Markets were $36.73 billion for 2021, 21% higher than 2020.
Investment banking fees were $14.14 billion, 55% higher than 2020, due to significantly higher net revenues in Advisory, reflecting a significant increase in completed mergers and acquisitions volumes, in Equity underwriting, primarily driven by strong industry-wide initial public offerings activity, and in Debt underwriting, primarily reflecting elevated industry-wide leveraged finance activity.
As of December 2021, our Investment banking fees backlog increased significantly compared with December 2020, due to significantly higher estimated net revenues from potential advisory transactions and potential debt underwriting transactions (particularly from leveraged finance transactions), and higher estimated net revenues from potential equity underwriting transactions.
Net revenues in FICC were $10.61 billion, 7% lower than 2020, due to lower net revenues in FICC intermediation, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in interest rate products and credit products and slightly lower net revenues in currencies, partially offset by significantly higher net revenues in mortgages and higher net revenues in commodities. Net revenues in FICC financing were significantly higher, reflecting significantly higher net revenues from secured lending, partially offset by significantly lower net revenues from resale agreements.

The decrease in FICC intermediation net revenues reflected strong but significantly lower client activity compared with very strong activity levels in the prior year due to high volatility amid the COVID-19 pandemic. This was partially offset by the impact of improved market-making conditions on our inventory compared with challenging conditions in the prior year. The following provides information about our FICC intermediation net revenues by business, compared with 2020 results:
•Net revenues in interest rate products primarily reflected lower client activity.
•Net revenues in credit products and currencies reflected lower client activity, partially offset by the impact of improved market-making conditions on our inventory.
•Net revenues in mortgages reflected the impact of improved market-making conditions on our inventory.
•Net revenues in commodities primarily reflected higher client activity.
Net revenues in Equities were $11.72 billion, 19% higher than 2020, due to significantly higher net revenues in Equities financing, primarily reflecting increased activity (including higher average client balances), and higher net revenues in Equities intermediation, primarily reflecting higher net revenues in derivatives.
Net revenues in Other were $265 million for 2021, compared with $32 million for 2020, primarily reflecting significantly higher net gains from investments in equities.
Provision for credit losses was a net benefit of $171 million for 2021, compared with net provisions of $1.22 billion for 2020, primarily due to reserve reductions in the year reflecting continued improvement in the broad economic environment following challenging conditions in 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by portfolio growth.
Operating expenses were $19.54 billion for 2021, 3% higher than 2020, primarily due to significantly higher compensation and benefits expenses (reflecting strong performance) and higher transaction based expenses, largely offset by significantly lower net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings. Pre-tax earnings were $17.36 billion, 67% higher than 2020. ROE was 22.5% for 2021, compared with 13.6% for 2020 (which included the impact of net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings that reduced ROE by 5.4 percentage points).

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 71

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management provides investment services to help clients preserve and grow their financial assets and achieve their financial goals. We provide these services to our clients, both institutional and individuals, including investors who primarily access our products through a network of third-party distributors around the world.
We manage client assets across a broad range of investment strategies and asset classes, including equity, fixed income and alternative investments. We provide investment solutions, including those managed on a fiduciary basis by our portfolio managers, as well as those managed by third-party managers. We offer our investment solutions in a variety of structures, including separately managed accounts, mutual funds, private partnerships and other commingled vehicles.
We also provide tailored wealth advisory services to clients across the wealth spectrum. We operate globally serving individuals, families, family offices, and foundations and endowments. Our relationships are established directly or introduced through companies that sponsor financial wellness programs for their employees.
We offer personalized financial planning to individuals and also provide customized investment advisory solutions, and offer structuring and execution capabilities in securities and derivative products across all major global markets. In addition, we offer clients a full range of private banking services, including a variety of deposit alternatives and loans that our clients use to finance investments in both financial and nonfinancial assets, bridge cash flow timing gaps or provide liquidity and flexibility for other needs.
We invest in alternative investments across a range of asset classes that seek to deliver long-term accretive risk-adjusted returns. Our investing activities, which are typically longer-term, include investments in corporate equity, credit, real estate and infrastructure assets.
We also raise deposits and have issued unsecured loans to consumers through Marcus by Goldman Sachs (Marcus). We have started a process to cease offering new loans through Marcus.

Asset & Wealth Management generates revenues from the following:
•Management and other fees. We receive fees related to managing assets for institutional and individual clients, providing investing and wealth advisory solutions, providing financial planning and counseling services via Ayco Personal Financial Management, and executing brokerage transactions for wealth management clients. The majority of revenues in management and other fees consists of asset-based fees on client assets that we manage. For further information about assets under supervision, see “Assets Under Supervision” below. The fees that we charge vary by asset class, client channel and the types of services provided, and are affected by investment performance, as well as asset inflows and redemptions.
•Incentive fees. In certain circumstances, we also receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s or a separately managed account’s return, or when the return exceeds a specified benchmark or other performance targets. Such fees include overrides, which consist of the increased share of the income and gains derived primarily from our private equity and credit funds when the return on a fund’s investments over the life of the fund exceeds certain threshold returns.
•Private banking and lending. Our private banking and lending activities include issuing loans to our wealth management clients. We also accept deposits from wealth management clients, including through Marcus. We have also issued unsecured loans to consumers through Marcus and have started a process to cease offering new loans. Additionally, we provide investing services through Marcus Invest to U.S. customers. Private banking and lending revenues include net interest income allocated to deposits and net interest income earned on loans to individual clients.
•Equity investments. Includes investing activities related to our asset management activities primarily related to public and private equity investments in corporate, real estate and infrastructure assets. We also make investments through consolidated investment entities (CIEs), substantially all of which are engaged in real estate investment activities.
•Debt investments. Includes lending activities related to our asset management activities, including investing in corporate debt, lending to middle-market clients, and providing financing for real estate and other assets. These activities include investments in mezzanine debt, senior debt and distressed debt securities.

-- ----------------------------
72 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents our Asset & Wealth Management assets.

------------------------------ -------------- ------- ------ - -------
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Cash and cash equivalents $ 54,065 $ 62,652
Collateralized agreements 23,723 18,737
Customer and other receivables 13,409 12,712
Trading assets 19,860 17,739
Investments 27,400 32,491
Loans 56,338 56,676
Other assets 20,175 20,143
Total $ 214,970 $ 221,150

The table below presents details about our Asset & Wealth Management loans.

------------------------- -------------- ------ ------- - ------
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Corporate $ 14,359 $ 15,575
Real estate 18,699 18,688
Securities-based 12,814 13,635
Other collateralized 6,295 5,186
Installment 4,474 3,646
Other 1,700 1,708
Loans, gross 58,341 58,438
Allowance for loan losses (2,003) (1,762)
Total loans $ 56,338 $ 56,676

The average Asset & Wealth Management gross loans were $59.35 billion for 2022 and $56.85 billion for 2021.
The table below presents our Asset & Wealth Management operating results.

------------------------------- ------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ------ - - ------
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Management and other fees $ 8,781 $ 7,750 $ 6,750
Incentive fees 359 616 401
Private banking and lending 2,458 1,661 1,372
Equity investments 610 8,794 3,902
Debt investments 1,168 3,144 1,332
Net revenues 13,376 21,965 13,757
Provision for credit losses 519 (169) 1,395
Operating expenses 11,550 11,406 9,469
Pre-tax earnings 1,307 10,728 2,893
Provision for taxes 215 2,146 700
Net earnings 1,092 8,582 2,193
Preferred stock dividends 113 123 110
Net earnings to common $ 979 $ 8,459 $ 2,083

Average common equity $ 31,762 $ 29,988 $ 24,963
Return on average common equity 3.1 % 28.2 % 8.3 %

The table below presents our Asset management and Wealth management net revenues by line item in Asset & Wealth Management.

--------------------------- ---------------- ----------------- ------------------------- - ----- - ------
$ in millions Asset management Wealth management Asset & Wealth Management
Year Ended December 2022
Management and other fees $ 3,817 $ 4,964 $ 8,781
Incentive fees 359 – 359
Private banking and lending – 2,458 2,458
Equity investments 610 – 610
Debt investments 1,168 – 1,168
Total $ 5,954 $ 7,422 $ 13,376
Year Ended December 2021
Management and other fees $ 2,918 $ 4,832 $ 7,750
Incentive fees 616 – 616
Private banking and lending – 1,661 1,661
Equity investments 8,794 – 8,794
Debt investments 3,144 – 3,144
Total $ 15,472 $ 6,493 $ 21,965
Year Ended December 2020
Management and other fees $ 2,782 $ 3,968 $ 6,750
Incentive fees 401 – 401
Private banking and lending – 1,372 1,372
Equity investments 3,902 – 3,902
Debt investments 1,332 – 1,332
Total $ 8,417 $ 5,340 $ 13,757

In the table above, incentive fees previously included in Wealth management have been reclassified to Asset management to better reflect the activities of the reporting unit that generated the underlying revenues. Previously, incentive fees related to wealth management clients were reflected in Wealth management. Prior periods have been conformed to the current presentation.
The table below presents our Equity investments net revenues by equity type and asset class.

-------------- ------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Equity Type
Private equity $ 2,078 $ 8,826 $ 2,329
Public equity (1,468) (32) 1,573
Total $ 610 $ 8,794 $ 3,902

Asset Class
Real estate $ 1,482 $ 2,489 $ 1,621
Corporate (872) 6,305 2,281
Total $ 610 $ 8,794 $ 3,902

The table below presents details about our Debt investments net revenues.

----------------------------- ------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Fair value net gains/(losses) $ (415) $ 1,216 $ (268)
Net interest income 1,583 1,928 1,600
Total $ 1,168 $ 3,144 $ 1,332

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 73

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents our unaudited quarterly Asset & Wealth Management operating results.

--------------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ----- ----- ----- - -----
 First Second Third Fourth
$ in millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter
 2022
Management and other fees $ 2,035 $ 2,243 $ 2,255 $ 2,248
Incentive fees 79 185 56 39
Private banking and lending 492 538 675 753
Equity investments (294) (104) 721 287
Debt investments 291 317 326 234
Net revenues 2,603 3,179 4,033 3,561
Provision for credit losses 203 149 (13) 180
Operating expenses 2,409 2,823 2,955 3,363
Pre-tax earnings/(loss) $ (9) $ 207 $ 1,091 $ 18

 2021
Management and other fees $ 1,839 $ 1,879 $ 1,985 $ 2,047
Incentive fees 68 93 220 235
Private banking and lending 416 387 432 426
Equity investments 2,965 3,425 957 1,447
Debt investments 963 765 711 705
Net revenues 6,251 6,549 4,305 4,860
Provision for credit losses (140) (159) 58 72
Operating expenses 3,315 2,983 2,232 2,876
Pre-tax earnings $ 3,076 $ 3,725 $ 2,015 $ 1,912

 2020
Management and other fees $ 1,603 $ 1,642 $ 1,708 $ 1,797
Incentive fees 223 44 35 99
Private banking and lending 377 245 341 409
Equity investments (56) 896 1,377 1,685
Debt investments (710) 557 728 757
Net revenues 1,437 3,384 4,189 4,747
Provision for credit losses 281 781 203 130
Operating expenses 2,307 2,471 2,550 2,141
Pre-tax earnings/(loss) $ (1,151) $ 132 $ 1,436 $ 2,476

Operating Environment. During 2022, Asset & Wealth Management operated in an environment generally characterized by broad macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns and market volatility, which contributed to a decrease in asset prices compared to the end of 2021, negatively affecting assets under supervision and investments. Additionally, global central banks sought to address inflation by increasing policy interest rates several times over the course of the year.
In the future, if market and economic conditions deteriorate further, it may lead to a continued decline in asset prices, or investors transitioning to asset classes that typically generate lower fees or withdrawing their assets or deposits, and net revenues in Asset & Wealth Management would likely continue to be negatively impacted.
2022 versus 2021. Net revenues in Asset & Wealth Management were $13.38 billion for 2022, 39% lower than 2021, primarily reflecting significantly lower net revenues in Equity investments and Debt investments.

Broad macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns during the year led to a decline in global equity prices and wider credit spreads. As a result, net revenues in Equity investments reflected significantly lower net gains from investments in private equities and significant mark-to-market net losses from investments in public equities. The decrease in Debt investments net revenues reflected net mark-downs compared with net mark-ups in the prior year and lower net interest income. Incentive fees were significantly lower, primarily driven by harvesting in the prior year. Management and other fees were higher, reflecting the inclusion of NNIP and a reduction in fee waivers on money market funds. Private banking and lending net revenues were significantly higher, primarily reflecting higher deposit spreads, as well as higher loan and deposit balances.
Provision for credit losses was $519 million for 2022, compared with a net benefit of $169 million for 2021. Provisions for 2022 primarily reflected the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns, while the net benefit for 2021 reflected reserve reductions as the broad economic environment continued to improve following the initial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Operating expenses were $11.55 billion for 2022, essentially unchanged compared with 2021, reflecting the inclusion of operating expenses related to NNIP, largely offset by lower compensation and benefits expenses. Pre-tax earnings were $1.31 billion for 2022, compared with $10.73 billion for 2021.
2021 versus 2020. Net revenues in Asset & Wealth Management were $21.97 billion for 2021, 60% higher than 2020, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Equity investments and Debt investments, and higher Management and other fees.
The increase in Equity investments net revenues reflected significantly higher net gains from investments in private equities, driven by company-specific events and improved corporate performance compared with 2020, partially offset by net losses from investments in public equities compared with significant net gains in the prior year. The increase in Debt investments net revenues reflected net mark-ups compared with net mark-downs in the prior year, and significantly higher net interest income. The increase in management and other fees reflected the impact of higher average assets under supervision, partially offset by higher fee waivers on money market funds. Private banking and lending net revenues were higher, primarily reflecting higher deposit balances. Incentive fees were significantly higher, primarily driven by harvesting.
Provision for credit losses was a net benefit of $169 million for 2021, compared with net provisions of $1.40 billion for 2020, primarily due to reserve reductions in the year reflecting continued improvement in the broad economic environment following challenging conditions in 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.

-- ----------------------------
74 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Operating expenses were $11.41 billion for 2021, 20% higher than 2020, primarily due to significantly higher compensation and benefits expenses (reflecting strong performance). Pre-tax earnings were $10.73 billion for 2021, compared with $2.89 billion for 2020.
Assets Under Supervision. AUS includes our institutional clients’ assets, assets sourced through third-party distributors and high-net-worth clients’ assets where we earn a fee for managing assets on a discretionary basis. This includes net assets in our mutual funds, hedge funds, credit funds, private equity funds, real estate funds, and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. AUS also includes client assets invested with third-party managers, private bank deposits and advisory relationships where we earn a fee for advisory and other services, but do not have investment discretion. AUS does not include the self-directed brokerage assets of our clients.
The table below presents information about our firmwide period-end AUS by asset class, client channel, region and vehicle.

----------------------- -------------- ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 As of December
$ in billions 2022 2021 2020
Asset Class
Alternative investments $ 263 $ 236 $ 191
Equity 563 613 475
Fixed income 1,010 940 896
Total long-term AUS 1,836 1,789 1,562
Liquidity products 711 681 583
Total AUS $ 2,547 $ 2,470 $ 2,145

Client Channel
Institutional $ 905 $ 824 $ 761
Wealth management 712 751 615
Third-party distributed 930 895 769
Total AUS $ 2,547 $ 2,470 $ 2,145

Region
Americas $ 1,806 $ 1,930 $ 1,656
EMEA 548 354 318
Asia 193 186 171
Total AUS $ 2,547 $ 2,470 $ 2,145

Vehicle
Separate accounts $ 1,388 $ 1,347 $ 1,186
Public funds 862 811 707
Private funds and other 297 312 252
Total AUS $ 2,547 $ 2,470 $ 2,145

In the table above:
•Liquidity products includes money market funds and private bank deposits.
•EMEA represents Europe, Middle East and Africa.

The table below presents changes in our AUS.

------------------------------------------ ------------------- ----- --- ---- ----- --- - -----
 Year Ended December

$ in billions 2022 2021 2020
Beginning balance $ 2,470 $ 2,145 $ 1,859
Net inflows/(outflows):
Alternative investments 19 33 (1)
Equity 13 41 (4)
Fixed income 18 56 47
Total long-term AUS net inflows/(outflows) 50 130 42
Liquidity products 16 98 121
Total AUS net inflows/(outflows) 66 228 163
Acquisitions 316 – –
Net market appreciation/(depreciation) (305) 97 123
Ending balance $ 2,547 $ 2,470 $ 2,145

In the table above, acquisitions for 2022 included inflows from the acquisitions of NNIP and NextCapital Group, Inc., and from the acquisition of the assets of Bombardier Global Pension Asset Management Inc. For each, substantially all of the inflows were in fixed income and equity assets.
The table below presents information about our average monthly firmwide AUS by asset class.

----------------------- ------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 Average for the
 Year Ended December

$ in billions 2022 2021 2020
Asset Class
Alternative investments $ 253 $ 211 $ 183
Equity 581 547 409
Fixed income 992 919 829
Total long-term AUS 1,826 1,677 1,421
Liquidity products 693 625 573
Total AUS $ 2,519 $ 2,302 $ 1,994

In addition to our AUS, we have discretion over alternative investments where we currently do not earn management fees (non-fee-earning alternative assets).
We earn management fees on client assets that we manage and also receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s or a separately managed account’s return, or when the return exceeds a specified benchmark or other performance targets. These incentive fees are recognized when it is probable that a significant reversal of such fees will not occur. Our estimated unrecognized incentive fees were $3.33 billion as of December 2022, $3.39 billion as of December 2021 and $1.79 billion as of December 2020. Such amounts are based on the completion of the funds’ financial statements, which is generally one quarter in arrears. These fees will be recognized, assuming no decline in fair value, if and when it is probable that a significant reversal of such fees will not occur, which is generally when such fees are no longer subject to fluctuations in the market value of the assets.
Our target is to achieve annual firmwide management and other fees of more than $10 billion (including more than $2 billion from alternatives) in 2024.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 75

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents our average effective management fee (which excludes non-asset-based fees) earned on our firmwide AUS by asset class.

--------------------------- ------------------- ---- ----
 Year Ended December

Effective fees (bps) 2022 2021 2020
Alternative investments 64 63 61
Equity 57 60 58
Fixed income 17 17 18
Liquidity products 14 5 14
Total average effective fee 31 29 29

In the table above, our average effective management fee for liquidity products increased during 2022 compared to 2021, primarily reflecting higher management fee waivers in 2021.
The table below presents details about our monthly average AUS for alternative investments and the average effective management fee we earned on such assets.

--------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------------ ----- - -- - ---
$ in billions DirectStrategies Fund ofFunds Total
Year Ended December 2022
Average AUS
Corporate equity $ 27 $ 61 $ 88
Credit 36 2 38
Real estate 10 8 18
Hedge funds and other 45 22 67
Funds and discretionary accounts $ 118 $ 93 $ 211
Advisory accounts 42
Total average AUS for alternative investments $ 253
Effective Fees (bps)
Corporate equity 133 61 83
Credit 81 51 80
Real estate 87 50 70
Hedge funds and other 64 49 59
Funds and discretionary accounts 87 57 74
Advisory accounts 16
Total average effective fee 64
Year Ended December 2021
Average AUS
Corporate equity $ 20 $ 59 $ 79
Credit 18 2 20
Real estate 8 7 15
Hedge funds and other 43 19 62
Funds and discretionary accounts $ 89 $ 87 $ 176
Advisory accounts 35
Total average AUS for alternative investments $ 211
Effective Fees (bps)
Corporate equity 118 57 72
Credit 102 53 98
Real estate 94 55 76
Hedge funds and other 65 55 62
Funds and discretionary accounts 87 56 72
Advisory accounts 17
Total average effective fee 63
Year Ended December 2020
Average AUS
Corporate equity $ 15 $ 58 $ 73
Credit 13 2 15
Real estate 7 6 13
Hedge funds and other 37 17 54
Funds and discretionary accounts $ 72 $ 83 $ 155
Advisory accounts 28
Total average AUS for alternative investments $ 183
Effective Fees (bps)
Corporate equity 132 57 73
Credit 95 52 89
Real estate 88 62 75
Hedge funds and other 63 53 60
Funds and discretionary accounts 86 57 70
Advisory accounts 13
Total average effective fee 61

In the table above,
•Direct strategies primarily includes our private equity, growth equity, private credit, liquid alternatives and real estate strategies. Fund of funds primarily includes our Alternative Investments & Manager Selection (AIMS) business. AIMS invests in leading private equity, hedge fund, real estate and credit third-party managers as a limited partner, secondary-market investor, co-investor or management company partner.
•Certain AUS previously reported in Direct Strategies were reclassified to Fund of Funds to better reflect the nature of the underlying strategy. Prior periods amounts have been conformed to the current presentation.
The table below presents information about our period-end AUS for alternative investments, non-fee-earning alternative investments and total alternative investments.

-------------------------------- --- -------------------------------- ---------------------- - --- - ---
$ in billions AUS Non-fee-earningalternativeassets Totalalternativeassets
As of December 2022
Corporate equity $ 94 $ 76 $ 170
Credit 44 73 117
Real estate 18 36 54
Hedge funds and other 65 2 67
Funds and discretionary accounts 221 187 408
Advisory accounts 42 – 42
Total alternative investments $ 263 $ 187 $ 450
As of December 2021
Corporate equity $ 87 $ 78 $ 165
Credit 25 79 104
Real estate 16 39 55
Hedge funds and other 70 2 72
Funds and discretionary accounts 198 198 396
Advisory accounts 38 2 40
Total alternative investments $ 236 $ 200 $ 436
As of December 2020
Corporate equity $ 74 $ 50 $ 124
Credit 18 80 98
Real estate 13 43 56
Hedge funds and other 56 2 58
Funds and discretionary accounts 161 175 336
Advisory accounts 30 1 31
Total alternative investments $ 191 $ 176 $ 367

In the table above:
•Corporate equity primarily includes private equity.
•Total alternative investments included uncalled capital that is available for future investing of $54 billion as of December 2022, $42 billion as of December 2021 and $44 billion as of December 2020.
•Non-fee-earning alternative investments primarily includes investments that we hold on our balance sheet, our unfunded commitments, unfunded commitments of our clients (where we do not charge fees on commitments), credit facilities collateralized by fund assets and employee funds. Our calculation of non-fee-earning alternative investments may not be comparable to similar calculations used by other companies.

-- ----------------------------
76 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

•Non-fee-earning alternative investments primarily includes our direct investing strategies, including private equity, growth equity, private credit and real estate strategies.
We have announced a strategic objective of growing our third-party alternatives business, and have established a target of achieving gross inflows of $225 billion for alternative investments from 2020 through the end of 2024.
The table below presents information about third-party commitments raised in our alternatives business from 2020 through 2022.

---------------------------------------------- ------------- ---
 As of
$ in billions December 2022
Included in AUS $ 118
Included in non-fee-earning alternative assets 61
Third-party commitments raised $ 179

In the table above, commitments included in non-fee-earning alternative investments included approximately $44 billion, which will begin to earn fees (and become AUS) if and when the commitments are drawn and assets are invested.
The table below presents information about alternative investments in Asset & Wealth Management that we hold on our balance sheet.

------------------- ----- -------------- ---------------- ----------------------- ----- -- -- -- - -- - --
$ in billions Loans Debtsecurities Equitysecurities CIEinvestmentsand other Total
As of December 2022
Corporate equity $ – $ – $ 10 $ – $ 10
Credit 14 11 – – 25
Real estate 5 1 5 12 23
Other – – – 1 1
Total $ 19 $ 12 $ 15 $ 13 $ 59
As of December 2021
Corporate equity $ – $ – $ 14 $ – $ 14
Credit 15 11 – – 26
Real estate 7 2 4 14 27
Other – – – 1 1
Total $ 22 $ 13 $ 18 $ 15 $ 68
As of December 2020
Corporate equity $ – $ – $ 16 $ – $ 16
Credit 16 12 – – 28
Real estate 9 2 3 19 33
Other – – – 1 1
Total $ 25 $ 14 $ 19 $ 20 $ 78

As we continue to grow our third-party alternatives business, we remain focused on our strategic objective to reduce the capital intensity of our alternative investments in Asset & Wealth Management that we hold on our balance sheet. During 2022, we reduced our on-balance sheet alternative investments by $9 billion to $59 billion.

Loans and Debt Securities. The table below presents the concentration of loans and debt securities within our alternative investments by accounting classification, region and industry.

-------------------------------------- -------------- ---- --- -
 As of December
$ in billions 2022 2021
Loans $19 $22
Debt securities 12 13
Total $31 $35

Accounting Classification
Debt securities at fair value 39 % 38 %
Loans at amortized cost 49 % 53 %
Loans at fair value 6 % 9 %
Loans held for sale 6 % —
Total 100 % 100 %

Region
Americas 51 % 50 %
EMEA 35 % 34 %
Asia 14 % 16 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Industry
Consumer & Retail 10 % 9 %
Financial Institutions 7 % 6 %
Healthcare 13 % 12 %
Industrials 16 % 16 %
Natural Resources & Utilities 2 % 4 %
Real Estate 20 % 25 %
Technology, Media & Telecommunications 25 % 22 %
Other 7 % 6 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Equity Securities. The table below presents the concentration of equity securities within our alternative investments by region and industry.

-------------------------------------- -------------- ---- --- -
 As of December
$ in billions 2022 2021
Equity securities $15 $18

Region
Americas 67 % 57 %
EMEA 15 % 23 %
Asia 18 % 20 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Industry
Consumer & Retail 6 % 8 %
Financial Institutions 10 % 9 %
Healthcare 9 % 11 %
Industrials 7 % 8 %
Natural Resources & Utilities 14 % 11 %
Real Estate 30 % 23 %
Technology, Media & Telecommunications 23 % 29 %
Other 1 % 1 %
Total 100 % 100 %

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 77

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

In the table above:
•Equity securities included $13 billion as of December 2022 and $14 billion as of December 2021 of private equity positions, and $2 billion as of December 2022 and $4 billion as of December 2021 of public equity positions that converted from private equity upon the initial public offerings of the underlying companies.
•The concentrations for real estate equity securities as of December 2022 were 9% for multifamily (5% as of December 2021), 5% for office (5% as of December 2021), 8% for mixed use (7% as of December 2021) and 8% for other real estate equity securities (6% as of December 2021).
The table below presents the concentration of equity securities within our alternative investments by vintage.

------------------- ------- -
 Vintage
As of December 2022
2015 or earlier 26 %
2016 - 2018 26 %
2019 - thereafter 48 %
Total 100 %
As of December 2021
2014 or earlier 20 %
2015 - 2017 32 %
2018 - thereafter 48 %
Total 100 %

CIE Investments and Other. CIE investments and other included assets held by CIEs of $12 billion as of December 2022 and $14 billion as of December 2021, which were funded with liabilities of approximately $6 billion as of December 2022 and $7 billion as of December 2021. Substantially all such liabilities were nonrecourse, thereby reducing our equity at risk.
The table below presents the concentration of CIE assets, net of financings, within our alternative investments by region and asset class.

----------------------------- -------------- ---- --- -
 As of December
$ in billions 2022 2021
CIE assets, net of financings $6 $7
Region
Americas 65 % 63 %
EMEA 25 % 25 %
Asia 10 % 12 %
Total 100 % 100 %
Asset Class
Hospitality 4 % 4 %
Industrials 10 % 10 %
Multifamily 23 % 23 %
Office 22 % 24 %
Retail 3 % 5 %
Senior Housing 14 % 16 %
Student Housing 7 % 6 %
Other 17 % 12 %
Total 100 % 100 %

The table below presents the concentration of CIE assets, net of financings, within our alternative investments by vintage.

------------------- ------- -
 Vintage
As of December 2022
2015 or earlier 5 %
2016 - 2018 45 %
2019 - thereafter 50 %
Total 100 %
As of December 2021
2014 or earlier 2 %
2015 - 2017 29 %
2018 - thereafter 69 %
Total 100 %

Platform Solutions
Platform Solutions includes our consumer platforms, such as partnerships offering credit cards and point-of-sale financing, and transaction banking and other platform businesses.
Platform Solutions generates revenues from the following:
Consumer platforms. Our Consumer platforms business issues credit cards and provides point-of-sale financing to consumers to finance the purchases of goods or services. Consumer platforms revenues primarily includes net interest income earned on credit card lending and point-of-sale financing activities.
Transaction banking and other. We provide transaction banking and other services, including cash management services, such as deposit-taking and payment solutions for corporate and institutional clients. Transaction banking revenues include net interest income attributed to transaction banking deposits.
The table below presents our Platform Solutions assets.

------------------------------ -------------- ------ ----- - ------
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Cash and cash equivalents $ 20,557 $ 20,025
Collateralized agreements 10,278 6,637
Customer and other receivables 2 3
Trading assets 8,597 6,257

Loans 15,300 7,289
Other assets 2,556 631
Total $ 57,290 $ 40,842

The table below presents details about our Platform Solutions loans.

------------------------- -------------- ------ ----- - -----
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Installment $ 1,852 $ 26
Credit cards 15,820 8,212
Loans, gross 17,672 8,238
Allowance for loan losses (2,372) (949)
Total loans $ 15,300 $ 7,289

The average Platform Solutions gross loans were $12.43 billion for 2022 and $5.51 billion for 2021.

-- ----------------------------
78 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents our Platform Solutions operating results.

------------------------------- ------------------- ------- ------- ---- ----- ------ - - -----
 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021 2020
Consumer platforms $ 1,176 $ 424 $ 188
Transaction banking and other 326 216 146
Net revenues 1,502 640 334
Provision for credit losses 1,728 697 487
Operating expenses 1,763 990 630
Pre-tax earnings/(loss) (1,989) (1,047) (783)
Provision for taxes (328) (210) (189)
Net earnings/(loss) (1,661) (837) (594)
Preferred stock dividends 12 6 2
Net earnings/(loss) to common $ (1,673) $ (843) $ (596)

Average common equity $ 3,574 $ 1,777 $ 864
Return on average common equity (46.8) % (47.4) % (69.0) %

The table below presents our unaudited quarterly Platform Solutions operating results.

----------------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ----- --- ----- - -----
 First Second Third Fourth
$ in millions Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter
 2022
Consumer platforms $ 201 $ 252 $ 290 $ 433
Transaction banking and other 67 91 88 80
Net revenues 268 343 378 513
Provision for credit losses 167 310 465 786
Operating expenses 334 399 525 505
Pre-tax earnings/(loss) $ (233) $ (366) $ (612) $ (778)

 2021
Consumer platforms $ 90 $ 90 $ 119 $ 125
Transaction banking and other 49 49 54 64
Net revenues 139 139 173 189
Provision for credit losses 169 113 127 288
Operating expenses 230 187 269 304
Pre-tax earnings/(loss) $ (260) $ (161) $ (223) $ (403)

 2020
Consumer platforms $ 21 $ 50 $ 70 $ 47
Transaction banking and other 8 37 51 50
Net revenues 29 87 121 97
Provision for credit losses 92 107 84 204
Operating expenses 144 166 144 176
Pre-tax earnings/(loss) $ (207) $ (186) $ (107) $ (283)

Operating Environment. During 2022, Platform Solutions operated in an environment generally characterized by broad macroeconomic concerns. In the U.S., the rate of unemployment remained low and consumer spending increased slightly compared with 2021. Additionally, global central banks sought to address inflation by increasing policy interest rates several times over the course of the year.
In the future, if market and economic conditions deteriorate further, it may lead to a decrease in consumer spending or a deterioration in consumer credit, and net revenues and provision for credit losses in Platform Solutions would likely be negatively impacted.

2022 versus 2021. Net revenues in Platform Solutions were $1.50 billion for 2022, 135% higher than 2021, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both Consumer platforms and Transaction banking and other.
The increase in Consumer platforms net revenues primarily reflected significantly higher credit card balances. The increase in Transaction banking and other net revenues reflected higher deposit balances.
Provision for credit losses was $1.73 billion for 2022, compared with $697 million for 2021. Provisions for 2022 primarily reflected growth in the credit card portfolio and net charge offs, while 2021 primarily reflected growth in the credit card portfolio, which was partially offset by reserve reductions as the broad economic environment continued to improve following the initial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Operating expenses were $1.76 billion for 2022, 78% higher than 2021, reflecting higher spend on growth initiatives in Consumer platforms, primarily from the inclusion of operating expenses related to GreenSky. Pre-tax loss was $1.99 billion for 2022, compared with $1.05 billion for 2021.
2021 versus 2020. Net revenues in Platform Solutions were $640 million for 2021, 92% higher than 2020, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Consumer platforms and higher net revenues in Transaction banking and other.
Net revenues in Consumer platforms reflected higher credit card balances. Net revenues in Transaction banking and other reflected higher deposit balances.
Provision for credit losses was $697 million for 2021, 43% higher than 2020, primarily reflecting growth in the credit card portfolio, including approximately $185 million of the provisions related to the commitment to acquire the General Motors co-branded credit card portfolio, partially offset by reserve reductions in the year reflecting continued improvement in the broad economic environment following challenging conditions in 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Operating expenses were $990 million for 2021, 57% higher than 2020, primarily reflecting higher spend on growth initiatives in Consumer platforms. Pre-tax loss was $1.05 billion for 2021, compared with $783 million for 2020.
Geographic Data
See Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of our total net revenues, pre-tax earnings and net earnings by geographic region.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 79

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Balance Sheet and Funding Sources
Balance Sheet Management
One of our risk management disciplines is our ability to manage the size and composition of our balance sheet. While our asset base changes due to client activity, market fluctuations and business opportunities, the size and composition of our balance sheet also reflects factors, including (i) our overall risk tolerance, (ii) the amount of capital we hold and (iii) our funding profile, among other factors. See “Capital Management and Regulatory Capital — Capital Management” for information about our capital management process.
Although our balance sheet fluctuates on a day-to-day basis, our total assets at quarter-end are generally not materially different from those occurring within our reporting periods.
In order to ensure appropriate risk management, we seek to maintain a sufficiently liquid balance sheet and have processes in place to dynamically manage our assets and liabilities, which include (i) balance sheet planning, (ii) balance sheet limits, (iii) monitoring of key metrics and (iv) scenario analyses.
Balance Sheet Planning. We prepare a balance sheet plan that combines our projected total assets and composition of assets with our expected funding sources over a three-year time horizon. This plan is reviewed quarterly and may be adjusted in response to changing business needs or market conditions. The objectives of this planning process are:
•To develop our balance sheet projections, taking into account the general state of the financial markets and expected business activity levels, as well as regulatory requirements;
•To allow Treasury and our independent risk oversight and control functions to objectively evaluate balance sheet limit requests from our revenue-producing units in the context of our overall balance sheet constraints, including our liability profile and capital levels, and key metrics; and
•To inform the target amount, tenor and type of funding to raise, based on our projected assets and contractual maturities.
Treasury and our independent risk oversight and control functions, along with our revenue-producing units, review current and prior period information and expectations for the year to prepare our balance sheet plan. The specific information reviewed includes asset and liability size and composition, limit utilization, risk and performance measures, and capital usage.

Our consolidated balance sheet plan, including our balance sheets by business, funding projections and projected key metrics, is reviewed and approved by the Firmwide Asset Liability Committee and the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. See “Risk Management — Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for an overview of our risk management structure.
Balance Sheet Limits. The Firmwide Asset Liability Committee and the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee have the responsibility to review and approve balance sheet limits. These limits are set at levels which are close to actual operating levels, rather than at levels which reflect our maximum risk appetite, in order to ensure prompt escalation and discussion among our revenue-producing units, Treasury and our independent risk oversight and control functions on a routine basis. Requests for changes in limits are evaluated after giving consideration to their impact on our key metrics. Compliance with limits is monitored by our revenue-producing units and Treasury, as well as our independent risk oversight and control functions.
Monitoring of Key Metrics. We monitor key balance sheet metrics both by business and on a consolidated basis, including asset and liability size and composition, limit utilization and risk measures. We attribute assets to businesses and review and analyze movements resulting from new business activity, as well as market fluctuations.
Scenario Analyses. We conduct various scenario analyses, including as part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Stress Tests (DFAST), as well as our resolution and recovery planning. See “Capital Management and Regulatory Capital — Capital Management” for further information about these scenario analyses. These scenarios cover short- and long-term time horizons using various macroeconomic and firm-specific assumptions, based on a range of economic scenarios. We use these analyses to assist us in developing our longer-term balance sheet management strategy, including the level and composition of assets, funding and capital. Additionally, these analyses help us develop approaches for maintaining appropriate funding, liquidity and capital across a variety of situations, including a severely stressed environment.

-- ----------------------------
80 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Balance Sheet Analysis and Metrics
As of December 2022, total assets in our consolidated balance sheets were $1.44 trillion, a decrease of $22.19 billion from December 2021, reflecting decreases in trading assets of $74.67 billion (primarily due to decreases in equity securities, corporate debt instruments, reflecting the impact of our and our clients' activities), customer and other receivables of $25.23 billion (primarily reflecting client activity), cash and cash equivalents of $19.21 billion (primarily reflecting our activity), partially offset by increases in investments of $41.91 billion (primarily due to an increase in U.S. government obligations accounted for as held-to-maturity), collateralized agreements of $29.68 billion (primarily reflecting the impact of our and our clients' activities), and loans of $20.72 billion (reflecting increases in other collateralized and consumer loans).
As of December 2022, total liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets were $1.32 trillion, a decrease of $29.45 billion from December 2021, reflecting decreases in collateralized financings of $75.91 billion (primarily reflecting the impact of our and our clients' activities), partially offset by increases in deposits of $22.44 billion (primarily due to increases in transaction banking and private bank and consumer deposits, partially offset by other deposits), customer and other payables of $10.11 billion (primarily reflecting client activity), and trading liabilities of $9.90 billion (primarily due to an increase in equity securities, partially offset by a decrease in government obligations, both reflecting the impact of our and our clients' activities).
Our total repurchase agreements, accounted for as collateralized financings, were $110.35 billion as of December 2022 and $165.88 billion as of December 2021, which were 15% lower as of December 2022 and 3% higher as of December 2021 than the average daily amount of repurchase agreements over the respective quarters, and 27% lower as of December 2022 and 14% higher as of December 2021 than the average daily amount of repurchase agreements over the respective years. As of December 2022, the decrease in our repurchase agreements relative to the average daily amount of repurchase agreements during the quarter and year resulted from lower levels of our and our clients’ activities at the end of the period.
The level of our repurchase agreements fluctuates between and within periods, primarily due to providing clients with access to highly liquid collateral, such as certain government and agency obligations, through collateralized financing activities.

The table below presents information about our balance sheet and leverage ratios.

------------------------------ -------------- --------- - ---------
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Total assets $ 1,441,799 $ 1,463,988
Unsecured long-term borrowings $ 247,138 $ 254,092
Total shareholders’ equity $ 117,189 $ 109,926
Leverage ratio 12.3x 13.3x
Debt-to-equity ratio 2.1x 2.3x

In the table above:
•The leverage ratio equals total assets divided by total shareholders’ equity and measures the proportion of equity and debt we use to finance assets. This ratio is different from the leverage ratios included in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
•The debt-to-equity ratio equals unsecured long-term borrowings divided by total shareholders’ equity.
The table below presents information about our shareholders’ equity and book value per common share, including the reconciliation of common shareholders’ equity to tangible common shareholders’ equity.

--------------------------------------- -------------- ------- -------- - -------
 As of December
$ in millions, except per share amounts 2022 2021
Total shareholders’ equity $ 117,189 $ 109,926
Preferred stock (10,703) (10,703)
Common shareholders’ equity 106,486 99,223
Goodwill (6,374) (4,285)
Identifiable intangible assets (2,009) (418)
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 98,103 $ 94,520

Book value per common share $ 303.55 $ 284.39
Tangible book value per common share $ 279.66 $ 270.91

In the table above:
•Tangible common shareholders’ equity is calculated as total shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. We believe that tangible common shareholders’ equity is meaningful because it is a measure that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy. Tangible common shareholders’ equity is a non-GAAP measure and may not be comparable to similar non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
•Book value per common share and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding and restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements and not subject to performance or market conditions (collectively, basic shares) of 350.8 million as of December 2022 and 348.9 million as of December 2021. We believe that tangible book value per common share (tangible common shareholders’ equity divided by basic shares) is meaningful because it is a measure that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy. Tangible book value per common share is a non-GAAP measure and may not be comparable to similar non-GAAP measures used by other companies.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 81

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Funding Sources
Our primary sources of funding are deposits, collateralized financings, unsecured short- and long-term borrowings, and shareholders’ equity. We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources globally across products, programs, markets, currencies and creditors to avoid funding concentrations.
The table below presents information about our funding sources.

------------------------------- -------------- ------- -- --- ------- - --------- - --- -
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Deposits $ 386,665 40 % $ 364,227 36 %
Collateralized financings 155,022 16 % 230,932 23 %
Unsecured short-term borrowings 60,961 6 % 46,955 5 %
Unsecured long-term borrowings 247,138 26 % 254,092 25 %
Total shareholders’ equity 117,189 12 % 109,926 11 %
Total $ 966,975 100 % $ 1,006,132 100 %

Our funding is primarily raised in U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound and Japanese yen. We generally distribute our funding products through our own sales force and third-party distributors to a large, diverse creditor base in a variety of markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We believe that our relationships with our creditors are critical to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments, securities lenders, corporations, pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds and individuals. We have imposed various internal guidelines to monitor creditor concentration across our funding programs.
Deposits. Our deposits provide us with a diversified source of funding and reduce our reliance on wholesale funding. We raise deposits, including savings, demand and time deposits, from private bank clients, consumers, transaction banking clients, other institutional clients, and through internal and third-party broker-dealers. Substantially all of our deposits are raised through GS Bank USA, GSIB and Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (GSBE). See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our deposits, including a maturity profile of our time deposits.

Secured Funding. We fund a significant amount of inventory and a portion of investments on a secured basis. Secured funding includes collateralized financings in the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our collateralized financings, including its maturity profile. We may also pledge our inventory and investments as collateral for securities borrowed under a securities lending agreement. We also use our own inventory and investments to cover transactions in which we or our clients have sold securities that have not yet been purchased. Secured funding is less sensitive to changes in our credit quality than unsecured funding, due to our posting of collateral to our lenders. Nonetheless, we analyze the refinancing risk of our secured funding activities, taking into account trade tenors, maturity profiles, counterparty concentrations, collateral eligibility and counterparty rollover probabilities. We seek to mitigate our refinancing risk by executing term trades with staggered maturities, diversifying counterparties, raising excess secured funding and pre-funding residual risk through our GCLA.
We seek to raise secured funding with a term appropriate for the liquidity of the assets that are being financed, and we seek longer maturities for secured funding collateralized by asset classes that may be harder to fund on a secured basis, especially during times of market stress. Our secured funding, excluding funding collateralized by liquid government and agency obligations, is primarily executed for tenors of one month or greater and is primarily executed through term repurchase agreements and securities loaned contracts.
Assets that may be harder to fund on a secured basis during times of market stress include certain financial instruments in the following categories: mortgage- and other asset-backed loans and securities, non-investment-grade corporate debt securities, equity securities and emerging market securities.
We also raise financing through other types of collateralized financings, such as secured loans and notes. GS Bank USA has access to funding from the Federal Home Loan Bank. We had no outstanding borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank as of December 2022 and $100 million as of December 2021. Additionally, we have access to funding through the Federal Reserve discount window. However, we do not rely on this funding in our liquidity planning and stress testing.

-- ----------------------------
82 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Unsecured Short-Term Borrowings. A significant portion of our unsecured short-term borrowings was originally long-term debt that is scheduled to mature within one year of the reporting date. We use unsecured short-term borrowings, including U.S. and non-U.S. hybrid financial instruments and commercial paper, to finance liquid assets and for other cash management purposes. In accordance with regulatory requirements, Group Inc. does not issue debt with an original maturity of less than one year, other than to its subsidiaries. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our unsecured short-term borrowings.
Unsecured Long-Term Borrowings. Unsecured long-term borrowings, including structured notes, are raised through syndicated U.S. registered offerings, U.S. registered and Rule 144A medium-term note programs, offshore medium-term note offerings and other debt offerings. We issue in different tenors, currencies and products to maximize the diversification of our investor base.
The table below presents our quarterly unsecured long-term borrowings maturity profile.

------------------- ------------ ------------- ------------ ------------- ------- ------- - ----- - ------ ------ ------
$ in millions FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter Total
As of December 2022
 2024 $ 18,136 $ 11,053 $ 9,964 $ 11,858 $ 51,011
 2025 $ 12,131 $ 10,681 $ 6,443 $ 7,887 37,142
 2026 $ 5,862 $ 3,835 $ 3,278 $ 9,227 22,202
 2027 $ 8,580 $ 3,435 $ 6,568 $ 11,777 30,360
2028 - thereafter 106,423
Total $ 247,138

The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long-term borrowings as of December 2022 was approximately six years. To mitigate refinancing risk, we seek to limit the principal amount of debt maturing over the course of any monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual time horizon. We enter into interest rate swaps to convert a portion of our unsecured long-term borrowings into floating-rate obligations to manage our exposure to interest rates. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our unsecured long-term borrowings. We issued approximately $28 billion of benchmark debt during 2022, and we intend to issue significantly less benchmark debt in 2023 compared to our benchmark debt issuance in 2022, though actual issuances may differ due to business needs and market opportunities.
Shareholders’ Equity. Shareholders’ equity is a stable and perpetual source of funding. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our shareholders’ equity.

Capital Management and Regulatory Capital
Capital adequacy is of critical importance to us. We have in place a comprehensive capital management policy that provides a framework, defines objectives and establishes guidelines to assist us in maintaining the appropriate level and composition of capital in both business-as-usual and stressed conditions.
Capital Management
We determine the appropriate amount and composition of our capital by considering multiple factors, including our current and future regulatory capital requirements, the results of our capital planning and stress testing process, the results of resolution capital models and other factors, such as rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment and conditions in the financial markets.
We manage our capital requirements and the levels of our capital usage principally by setting limits on the balance sheet and/or limits on risk, in each case at both the firmwide and business levels.
We principally manage the level and composition of our capital through issuances and repurchases of our common stock.
We may issue, redeem or repurchase our preferred stock and subordinated debt or other forms of capital as business conditions warrant. Prior to such redemptions or repurchases, we must receive approval from the FRB. See Notes 14 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our preferred stock and subordinated debt.
Capital Planning and Stress Testing Process. As part of capital planning, we project sources and uses of capital given a range of business environments, including stressed conditions. Our stress testing process is designed to identify and measure material risks associated with our business activities, including market risk, credit risk, operational risk and liquidity risk, as well as our ability to generate revenues.
Our capital planning process incorporates an internal capital adequacy assessment with the objective of ensuring that we are appropriately capitalized relative to the risks in our businesses. We incorporate stress scenarios into our capital planning process with a goal of holding sufficient capital to ensure we remain adequately capitalized after experiencing a severe stress event. Our assessment of capital adequacy is viewed in tandem with our assessment of liquidity adequacy and is integrated into our overall risk management structure, governance and policy framework.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 83

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Our stress tests incorporate our internally designed stress scenarios, including our internally developed severely adverse scenario, and those required by the FRB, and are designed to capture our specific vulnerabilities and risks. We provide further information about our stress test processes and a summary of the results on our website as described in “Business — Available Information” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
As required by the FRB’s CCAR rules, we submit an annual capital plan for review by the FRB. The purpose of the FRB’s review is to ensure that we have a robust, forward-looking capital planning process that accounts for our unique risks and that permits continued operation during times of economic and financial stress.
The FRB evaluates us based, in part, on whether we have the capital necessary to continue operating under the baseline and severely adverse scenarios provided by the FRB and those developed internally. This evaluation also takes into account our process for identifying risk, our controls and governance for capital planning, and our guidelines for making capital planning decisions. In addition, the FRB evaluates our plan to make capital distributions (i.e., dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions of stock, subordinated debt or other capital securities) and issue capital, across the range of macroeconomic scenarios and firm-specific assumptions. The FRB determines the stress capital buffer (SCB) applicable to us based on its own annual stress test. The SCB under the Standardized approach is calculated as (i) the difference between our starting and minimum projected CET1 capital ratios under the supervisory severely adverse scenario and (ii) our planned common stock dividends for each of the fourth through seventh quarters of the planning horizon, expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets (RWAs).
Based on our 2022 CCAR submission, the FRB reduced our SCB from 6.4% to 6.3% for the period from October 1, 2022 through September 30, 2023. As a result, beginning on October 1, 2022, our Standardized CET1 capital ratio requirement was 13.3%. Additionally, effective January 1, 2023, our G-SIB surcharge increased from 2.5% to 3.0%, resulting in a Standardized CET1 capital ratio requirement of 13.8%. See “Share Repurchase Program” for further information about common stock repurchases and dividends and “Consolidated Regulatory Capital” for further information about the G-SIB surcharge. We published a summary of our annual DFAST results in June 2022. See “Business — Available Information” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
GS Bank USA is required to conduct stress tests on an annual basis and publish a summary of certain results. GS Bank USA published a summary of its annual DFAST results in June 2022. See “Business — Available Information” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

GSI, GSIB and GSBE also have their own capital planning and stress testing processes, which incorporate internally designed stress tests developed in accordance with the guidelines of their respective regulators.
Contingency Capital Plan. As part of our comprehensive capital management policy, we maintain a contingency capital plan. Our contingency capital plan provides a framework for analyzing and responding to a perceived or actual capital deficiency, including, but not limited to, identification of drivers of a capital deficiency, as well as mitigants and potential actions. It outlines the appropriate communication procedures to follow during a crisis period, including internal dissemination of information, as well as timely communication with external stakeholders.
Capital Attribution. We assess the capital usage of each of our businesses based on our attributed equity framework. This framework considers many factors, including our internal assessment of risks as well as the regulatory capital requirements related to our business activities. These regulatory capital requirements take into consideration our most binding capital constraints. Our most binding capital constraint is our CET1 capital ratio requirement under the Standardized Capital Rules. This requirement includes the SCB which is determined by the FRB based on its own annual stress test.
Share Repurchase Program. We use our share repurchase program to help maintain the appropriate level of common equity. The repurchase program is effected primarily through regular open-market purchases (which may include repurchase plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 and accelerated share repurchases), the amounts and timing of which are determined primarily by our current and projected capital position and our capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of CCAR. The amounts and timing of the repurchases may also be influenced by general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common stock.
In the third quarter of 2022, the Board of Directors of Group Inc. (Board) approved an increase in our common stock dividend from $2.00 to $2.50 per share. During 2022, we returned a total of $6.70 billion to shareholders, including common stock repurchases of $3.50 billion and common stock dividends of $3.20 billion. During the fourth quarter of 2022, we returned a total of $2.38 billion to shareholders, including common stock repurchases of $1.50 billion and common stock dividends of $880 million. Consistent with our capital management philosophy, we will continue prioritizing deployment of capital for our clients where returns are attractive and return any excess capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. During the first quarter of 2023 through February 23, 2023, our common stock repurchases were approximately $2.25 billion.

-- ----------------------------
84 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

See “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part II, Item 5 of this Form 10-K and Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our share repurchase program, and see above for information about our capital planning and stress testing process.
In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 introduced a one percent non-deductible excise tax (buyback tax) on the fair market value of certain corporate share repurchases after December 31, 2022. The fair market value of share repurchases subject to the tax is reduced by the fair market value of any stock issued during the calendar year, including stock issued to employees. Based on our current understanding, we do not expect the buyback tax to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in 2023.
Resolution Capital Models. In connection with our resolution planning efforts, we have established a Resolution Capital Adequacy and Positioning framework, which is designed to ensure that our major subsidiaries (GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (GS&Co.), GSI, GSIB, GSBE, Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), Goldman Sachs Asset Management, L.P. and Goldman Sachs Asset Management International) have access to sufficient loss-absorbing capacity (in the form of equity, subordinated debt and unsecured senior debt) so that they are able to wind down following a Group Inc. bankruptcy filing in accordance with our preferred resolution strategy.
In addition, we have established a triggers and alerts framework, which is designed to provide the Board with information needed to make an informed decision on whether and when to commence bankruptcy proceedings for Group Inc.
Rating Agency Guidelines
The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the obligations of Group Inc., which directly issues or guarantees substantially all of our senior unsecured debt obligations. GS&Co. and GSI have been assigned long- and short-term issuer ratings by certain credit rating agencies. GS Bank USA, GSIB and GSBE have also been assigned long- and short-term issuer ratings, as well as ratings on their long- and short-term bank deposits. In addition, credit rating agencies have assigned ratings to debt obligations of certain other subsidiaries of Group Inc.

The level and composition of our capital are among the many factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each agency has its own definition of eligible capital and methodology for evaluating capital adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors rather than a single calculation. See “Risk Management — Liquidity Risk Management — Credit Ratings” for further information about credit ratings of Group Inc., GS Bank USA, GSIB, GSBE, GS&Co. and GSI.
Consolidated Regulatory Capital
We are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements which are calculated in accordance with the regulations of the FRB (Capital Framework). Under the Capital Framework, we are an “Advanced approaches” banking organization and have been designated as a G-SIB.
The capital requirements calculated under the Capital Framework include the capital conservation buffer requirements, which are comprised of a 2.5% buffer (under the Advanced Capital Rules), the SCB (under the Standardized Capital Rules), a countercyclical capital buffer (under both Capital Rules) and the G-SIB surcharge (under both Capital Rules). Our G-SIB surcharge was 2.5% for 2022 and is 3.0% for 2023 and 2024. The G-SIB surcharge and countercyclical capital buffer in the future may differ due to additional guidance from our regulators and/or positional changes, and our SCB is likely to change from year to year based on the results of the annual supervisory stress tests. Our target is to maintain capital ratios equal to the regulatory requirements plus a buffer of 50 to 100 basis points.
See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios, and the Capital Framework.
Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)
We are also subject to the FRB’s TLAC and related requirements. Failure to comply with the TLAC and related requirements would result in restrictions being imposed by the FRB and could limit our ability to repurchase shares, pay dividends and make certain discretionary compensation payments.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 85

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents TLAC and external long-term debt requirements.

-------------------------------------------- ------------ -
 Requirements
TLAC to RWAs 21.5 %
TLAC to leverage exposure 9.5 %
External long-term debt to RWAs 8.5 %
External long-term debt to leverage exposure 4.5 %

In the table above:
•The TLAC to RWAs requirement included (i) the 18% minimum, (ii) the 2.5% buffer, (iii) the countercyclical capital buffer, which the FRB has set to zero percent and (iv) the 1.0% G-SIB surcharge (Method 1). Beginning in January 2023, our TLAC to RWAs requirement increased to 22.0%.
•The TLAC to leverage exposure requirement includes (i) the 7.5% minimum and (ii) the 2.0% leverage exposure buffer.
•The external long-term debt to RWAs requirement includes (i) the 6% minimum and (ii) the 2.5% G-SIB surcharge (Method 2). Beginning in January 2023, our external long-term debt to RWAs requirement increased to 9.0%.
•The external long-term debt to total leverage exposure is the 4.5% minimum.
The table below presents information about our TLAC and external long-term debt ratios.

-------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- --------- ---- - ---------
 For the Three MonthsEnded or as of December

$ in millions 2022 2021
TLAC $ 297,100 $ 297,765
External long-term debt $ 172,845 $ 174,500
RWAs $ 679,450 $ 676,863
Leverage exposure $ 1,867,358 $ 1,910,521

TLAC to RWAs 43.7 % 44.0 %
TLAC to leverage exposure 15.9 % 15.6 %
External long-term debt to RWAs 25.4 % 25.8 %
External long-term debt to leverage exposure 9.3 % 9.1 %

In the table above:
•TLAC includes common and preferred stock, and eligible long-term debt issued by Group Inc. Eligible long-term debt represents unsecured debt, which has a remaining maturity of at least one year and satisfies additional requirements.
•External long-term debt consists of eligible long-term debt subject to a haircut if it is due to be paid between one and two years.
•RWAs represent Advanced RWAs as of December 2022 and Standardized RWAs as of December 2021. In accordance with the TLAC rules, the higher of Advanced or Standardized RWAs are used in the calculation of TLAC and external long-term debt ratios and applicable requirements.

•Leverage exposure consists of average adjusted total assets and certain off-balance sheet exposures.
In the second half of 2022, based on regulatory feedback, we revised certain interpretations of the Capital Rules underlying the calculation of Standardized RWAs. As of December 2021, this change would have reduced our TLAC to RWAs ratio of 44.0% by 0.8 percentage points and our External long-term debt to RWAs ratio of 25.8% by 0.5 percentage points.
See “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for further information about TLAC.
Subsidiary Capital Requirements
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to separate regulation and capital requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Bank Subsidiaries. GS Bank USA is our primary U.S. banking subsidiary and GSIB and GSBE are our primary non-U.S. banking subsidiaries. These entities are subject to regulatory capital requirements. See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the regulatory capital requirements of our bank subsidiaries.
U.S. Regulated Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries. GS&Co., our primary U.S. regulated broker-dealer subsidiary, is also a registered futures commission merchant and a registered swap dealer with the CFTC, and a registered security-based swap dealer with the SEC, and therefore is subject to regulatory capital requirements imposed by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., the CFTC, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the National Futures Association. Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC and Rules 1.17 and Part 23 Subpart E of the CFTC specify uniform minimum net capital requirements, as defined, for their registrants, and also effectively require that a significant part of the registrants’ assets be kept in relatively liquid form. GS&Co. has elected to calculate its minimum capital requirements in accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital Requirement” as permitted by Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC.

-- ----------------------------
86 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

GS&Co. had regulatory net capital, as defined by Rule 15c3-1, of $22.21 billion as of December 2022 and $22.18 billion as of December 2021, which exceeded the amount required by $17.46 billion as of December 2022 and $17.74 billion as of December 2021. In addition to its alternative minimum net capital requirements, GS&Co. is also required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $5 billion and net capital in excess of $1 billion in accordance with Rule 15c3-1. GS&Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $6 billion. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, GS&Co. had tentative net capital and net capital in excess of both the minimum and the notification requirements.
Non-U.S. Regulated Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries. Our principal non-U.S. regulated broker-dealer subsidiaries include GSI and GSJCL.
GSI, our U.K. broker-dealer, is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). GSI is subject to the U.K. capital framework, which is largely based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s (Basel Committee) capital framework for strengthening international capital standards (Basel III).
The table below presents GSI’s risk-based capital requirements.

------------------------------- -------------- ---- ---- -
 As of December

 2022 2021
Risk-based capital requirements
CET1 capital ratio 8.7 % 8.1 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 10.7 % 9.9 %
Total capital ratio 13.3 % 12.4 %

In the table above, the risk-based capital requirements incorporate capital guidance received from the PRA and could change in the future.
The table below presents information about GSI’s risk-based capital ratios.

------------------------------------------- -------------- ------- - -------
 As of December

$ in millions 2022 2021
Risk-based capital and risk-weighted assets
CET1 capital $ 31,780 $ 28,810
Tier 1 capital $ 40,080 $ 37,110
Tier 2 capital $ 5,377 $ 5,377
Total capital $ 45,457 $ 42,487
RWAs $ 247,653 $ 269,762
Risk-based capital ratios
CET1 capital ratio 12.8% 10.7%
Tier 1 capital ratio 16.2% 13.8%
Total capital ratio 18.4% 15.7%

In the table above, the risk-based capital ratios as of December 2022 reflected profits after foreseeable charges that are still subject to audit by GSI’s external auditors and approval by GSI's Board of Directors for inclusion in risk-based capital. These profits contributed approximately 9 basis points to the CET1 capital ratio as of December 2022.

GSI is also subject to the minimum leverage ratio requirement of 3.25% established by the PRA, which became effective in January 2023. GSI had a leverage ratio of 6.1% as of December 2022. The leverage ratio as of December 2022 reflected profits after foreseeable charges that are still subject to audit by GSI’s external auditors and approval by GSI's Board of Directors for inclusion in risk-based capital. These profits contributed approximately 7 basis points to the leverage ratio as of December 2022.
GSI is a registered swap dealer with the CFTC and a registered security-based swap dealer with the SEC. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, GSI was subject to and in compliance with applicable capital requirements for swap dealers and security-based swap dealers.
GSI is also subject to a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities issued to affiliates. This requirement is subject to a transitional period which began to phase in from January 2019 and became fully effective beginning in January 2022. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, GSI was in compliance with this requirement.
GSJCL, our Japanese broker-dealer, is regulated by Japan’s Financial Services Agency. GSJCL and certain other non-U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to capital requirements promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they operate. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital requirements.

Regulatory and Other Matters
Regulatory Matters
Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision worldwide. Regulations have been adopted or are being considered by regulators and policy makers worldwide. Given that many of the new and proposed rules are highly complex, the full impact of regulatory reform will not be known until the rules are implemented and market practices develop under the final regulations.
See “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for further information about the laws, rules and regulations and proposed laws, rules and regulations that apply to us and our operations.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 87

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Other Matters
Replacement of Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs), including LIBOR. On January 1, 2022, the publication of all EUR, CHF, JPY and GBP LIBOR (non-USD LIBOR) settings along with certain USD LIBOR settings ceased. The publication of the most commonly used USD LIBOR settings as representative rates will cease after June 2023. The FCA has allowed the publication and use of synthetic rates for certain GBP LIBOR settings in legacy GBP LIBOR-based derivative contracts through March 2024. The FCA has proposed to allow the publication and use of synthetic rates for certain USD LIBOR settings in legacy USD LIBOR-based derivative contracts through September 2024. The U.S. federal banking agencies’ guidance strongly encourages banking organizations to cease using USD LIBOR.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol (IBOR Protocol) has provided derivatives market participants with amended fallbacks for legacy and new derivative contracts to mitigate legal or economic uncertainty. Both counterparties have to adhere to the IBOR Protocol or engage in bilateral amendments for the terms to be effective for derivative contracts. ISDA has confirmed that the FCA’s formal announcement to cease both non-USD and USD LIBOR settings fixed the spread adjustment for all LIBOR rates and as a result fallbacks applied automatically for non-USD LIBOR settings following December 31, 2021 and will apply automatically for USD LIBOR settings following June 30, 2023. The Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, that was enacted in March 2022, provides a statutory framework to replace USD LIBOR with a benchmark rate based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) for contracts governed by U.S. law that have no fallbacks or fallbacks that would require the use of a poll or LIBOR-based rate. In December 2022, the FRB adopted a final rule that implements the LIBOR Act, which will become effective on February 27, 2023. The final rule identifies different SOFR-based replacement rates for derivative contracts, for cash instruments such as floating-rate notes and preferred stock, for consumer contracts, for certain government-sponsored enterprise contracts and for certain student loan securitizations that lack a fallback to an alternative rate when USD LIBOR ceases to be published on June 30, 2023.
We facilitated an orderly transition from non-USD LIBORs to alternative risk-free reference rates and synthetic rates for us and our clients, and continue to make progress on our transition program as it relates to USD LIBOR.

Our risk exposure to USD LIBOR is primarily in connection with our derivative contracts and, to a lesser extent, our unsecured debt, preferred stock and loan portfolio. As of December 2022, the notional amount of our USD LIBOR-based derivative contracts was approximately $6 trillion, of which approximately $5 trillion will mature after June 2023 based on their contractual terms. Substantially all of such derivative contracts are with counterparties under bilateral agreements subject to the IBOR Protocol, or with central clearing counterparties or exchanges which have incorporated fallbacks consistent with the IBOR Protocol in their rulebooks and have announced that they plan to convert USD LIBOR contracts to alternative risk-free reference rates. Our unsecured benchmark debt and preferred stock with USD LIBOR exposure was approximately $29.0 billion as of December 2022, of which $26.4 billion will contractually mature after June 2023 or is perpetual and has no stated maturity date. Under the FRB’s final rule and the LIBOR Act, we will replace our USD LIBOR-based unsecured benchmark debt and preferred stock with term SOFR plus the statutorily prescribed tenor spread. This transition will take place following USD LIBOR cessation on June 30, 2023. In addition, our USD LIBOR-based loans were approximately $33.1 billion as of December 2022, of which approximately $30.5 billion will mature after June 2023 based on their contractual terms. A vast majority of such loans contain fallback provisions in the related loan agreements and we are actively engaging with our clients and syndicate partners to remediate the remaining loans agreements.
We have also issued debt and deposits linked to SOFR and Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) and executed SOFR- and SONIA-based derivative contracts to make markets and facilitate client activities. When appropriate, we continue to execute transactions in the market to reduce our USD LIBOR exposures arising from hedges to our fixed-rate debt issuances and replace them with alternative risk-free reference rate exposures.

-- ----------------------------
88 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the ordinary course of business, we enter into various types of off-balance sheet arrangements. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many different forms, including:
•Purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in special purpose entities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securitization vehicles;
•Holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other nonconsolidated vehicles;
•Entering into interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit derivatives, including total return swaps; and
•Providing guarantees, indemnifications, commitments, letters of credit and representations and warranties.
We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes, including securitizations. The securitization vehicles that purchase mortgages, corporate bonds and other types of financial assets are critical to the functioning of several significant investor markets, including the mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities markets, since they offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process.
We also enter into these arrangements to underwrite client securitization transactions; provide secondary market liquidity; make investments in performing and nonperforming debt, distressed loans, power-related assets, equity securities, real estate and other assets; and provide investors with credit-linked and asset-repackaged notes.

The table below presents where information about our various off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in this Form 10-K. In addition, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for information about our consolidation policies.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement Disclosure in Form 10-K
Variable interests and other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from variable interests in nonconsolidated variable interest entities (VIEs) See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Guarantees, and lending and other commitments See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives See “Risk Management — Credit Risk Management — Credit Exposures — OTC Derivatives” and Notes 4, 5, 7 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 89

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Risk Management
Risks are inherent in our businesses and include liquidity, market, credit, operational, model, legal, compliance, conduct, regulatory and reputational risks. For further information about our risk management processes, see “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” and for information about our areas of risk, see “Liquidity Risk Management,” “Market Risk Management,” “Credit Risk Management,” “Operational Risk Management,” “Model Risk Management” and “Other Risk Management,” as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Overview and Structure of Risk Management
Overview
We believe that effective risk management is critical to our success. Accordingly, we have established an enterprise risk management framework that employs a comprehensive, integrated approach to risk management, and is designed to enable comprehensive risk management processes through which we identify, assess, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our activities. Our risk management structure is built around three core components: governance, processes and people.
Governance. Risk management governance starts with the Board, which both directly and through its committees, including its Risk Committee, oversees our risk management policies and practices implemented through the enterprise risk management framework. The Board is also responsible for the annual review and approval of our risk appetite statement. The risk appetite statement describes the levels and types of risk we are willing to accept or to avoid, in order to achieve our objectives included in our strategic business plan, while remaining in compliance with regulatory requirements. The Board reviews our strategic business plan and is ultimately responsible for overseeing and providing direction about our strategy and risk appetite.

The Board receives regular briefings on firmwide risks, including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk, operational risk, model risk and climate risk, from our independent risk oversight and control functions, including the chief risk officer, and on compliance risk and conduct risk from Compliance, on legal and regulatory enforcement matters from the chief legal officer, and on other matters impacting our reputation from the chair and vice-chairs of our Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee. The chief risk officer reports to our chief executive officer and to the Risk Committee of the Board. As part of the review of the firmwide risk portfolio, the chief risk officer regularly advises the Risk Committee of the Board of relevant risk metrics and material exposures, including risk limits and thresholds established in our risk appetite statement.
The implementation of our risk governance structure and core risk management processes is overseen by Enterprise Risk, which reports to our chief risk officer, and is responsible for ensuring that our enterprise risk management framework provides the Board, our risk committees and senior management with a consistent and integrated approach to managing our various risks in a manner consistent with our risk appetite.
Our revenue-producing units, as well as Treasury, Engineering, Human Capital Management, Operations, and Corporate and Workplace Solutions, are considered our first line of defense. They are accountable for the outcomes of our risk-generating activities, as well as for assessing and managing those risks within our risk appetite.
Our independent risk oversight and control functions are considered our second line of defense and provide independent assessment, oversight and challenge of the risks taken by our first line of defense, as well as lead and participate in risk committees. Independent risk oversight and control functions include Compliance, Conflicts Resolution, Controllers, Legal, Risk and Tax.
Internal Audit is considered our third line of defense, and our director of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee of the Board and administratively to our chief executive officer. Internal Audit includes professionals with a broad range of audit and industry experience, including risk management expertise. Internal Audit is responsible for independently assessing and validating the effectiveness of key controls, including those within the risk management framework, and providing timely reporting to the Audit Committee of the Board, senior management and regulators.

-- ----------------------------
90 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The three lines of defense structure promotes the accountability of first line risk takers, provides a framework for effective challenge by the second line and empowers independent review from the third line.
Processes. We maintain various processes that are critical components of our risk management framework, including (i) risk identification and control assessment, (ii) risk appetite, limit and threshold setting, (iii) risk metrics, reporting and monitoring, and (iv) risk decision-making.
•Risk Identification and Control Assessment. We believe the identification of our risks and related control assessment is a critical step in providing our Board and senior management transparency and insight into the range and materiality of our risks. We have a comprehensive data collection process, including firmwide policies and procedures that require all employees to report and escalate risk events. Our approach for risk identification and control assessment is comprehensive across all risk types, is dynamic and forward-looking to reflect and adapt to our changing risk profile and business environment, leverages subject matter expertise, and allows for prioritization of our most critical risks. This approach also encompasses our control assessment, led by our second line of defense, to review and challenge the control environment to ensure it supports our strategic business plan.
To effectively assess our risks, we maintain a daily discipline of marking substantially all of our inventory to current market levels. We carry our inventory at fair value, with changes in valuation reflected immediately in our risk management systems and in net revenues. We do so because we believe this discipline is one of the most effective tools for assessing and managing risk and that it provides transparent and realistic insight into our inventory exposures.
An important part of our risk management process is firmwide stress testing. It allows us to quantify our exposure to tail risks, highlight potential loss concentrations, undertake risk/reward analysis, and assess and mitigate our risk positions. Firmwide stress tests are performed on a regular basis and are designed to ensure a comprehensive analysis of our vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks combining financial and nonfinancial risks, including, but not limited to, credit, market, liquidity and funding, operational and compliance, strategic, systemic and emerging risks into a single combined scenario. We also perform ad hoc stress tests in anticipation of market events or conditions. Stress tests are also used to assess capital adequacy as part of our capital planning and stress testing process. See “Capital Management and Regulatory Capital — Capital Management” for further information.

•Risk Appetite, Limit and Threshold Setting. We apply a rigorous framework of limits and thresholds to control and monitor risk across transactions, products, businesses and markets. The Board, directly or indirectly through its Risk Committee, approves limits and thresholds included in our risk appetite statement at firmwide, business and product levels. In addition, the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee, through delegated authority from the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee, is responsible for approving our risk limits and thresholds policy, subject to the overall limits approved by the Risk Committee of the Board, and monitoring these limits.
The Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee is responsible for approving limits at firmwide, business and product levels. Certain limits may be set at levels that will require periodic adjustment, rather than at levels that reflect our maximum risk appetite. This fosters an ongoing dialogue about risk among our first and second lines of defense, committees and senior management, as well as rapid escalation of risk-related matters. Additionally, through delegated authority from the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee, Market Risk sets limits at certain product and desk levels, and Credit Risk sets limits for individual counterparties and their subsidiaries, industries and countries. Limits are reviewed regularly and amended on a permanent or temporary basis to reflect changing market conditions, business conditions or risk tolerance.
•Risk Metrics, Reporting and Monitoring. Effective risk reporting and risk decision-making depends on our ability to get the right information to the right people at the right time. As such, we focus on the rigor and effectiveness of our risk systems, with the objective of ensuring that our risk management technology systems provide us with complete, accurate and timely information. Our risk metrics, reporting and monitoring processes are designed to take into account information about both existing and emerging risks, thereby enabling our risk committees and senior management to perform their responsibilities with the appropriate level of insight into risk exposures. Furthermore, our limit and threshold breach processes provide means for timely escalation. We evaluate changes in our risk profile and our businesses, including changes in business mix or jurisdictions in which we operate, by monitoring risk factors at a firmwide level.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 91

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

•Risk Decision-Making. Our governance structure provides the protocol and responsibility for decision-making on risk management issues and ensures implementation of those decisions. We make extensive use of risk committees that meet regularly and serve as an important means to facilitate and foster ongoing discussions to manage and mitigate risks.
We maintain strong and proactive communication about risk and we have a culture of collaboration in decision-making among our first and second lines of defense, committees and senior management. While our first line of defense is responsible for management of their risk, we dedicate extensive resources to our second line of defense in order to ensure a strong oversight structure and an appropriate segregation of duties. We regularly reinforce our strong culture of escalation and accountability across all functions.
People. Even the best technology serves only as a tool for helping to make informed decisions in real time about the risks we are taking. Ultimately, effective risk management requires our people to interpret our risk data on an ongoing and timely basis and adjust risk positions accordingly. The experience of our professionals, and their understanding of the nuances and limitations of each risk measure, guides us in assessing exposures and maintaining them within prudent levels.
We reinforce a culture of effective risk management, consistent with our risk appetite, in our training and development programs, as well as in the way we evaluate performance, and recognize and reward our people. Our training and development programs, including certain sessions led by our most senior leaders, are focused on the importance of risk management, client relationships and reputational excellence. As part of our performance review process, we assess reputational excellence, including how an employee exercises good risk management and reputational judgment, and adheres to our code of conduct and compliance policies. Our review and reward processes are designed to communicate and reinforce to our professionals the link between behavior and how people are recognized, the need to focus on our clients and our reputation, and the need to always act in accordance with our highest standards.

Structure
Ultimate oversight of risk is the responsibility of our Board. The Board oversees risk both directly and through its committees, including its Risk Committee. We also have a series of committees with specific risk management mandates that have oversight or decision-making responsibilities for risk management activities. Committee membership generally consists of senior managers from both our first and second lines of defense. We have established procedures for these committees to ensure that appropriate information barriers are in place. Our primary risk committees, most of which also have additional sub-committees, councils or working groups, are described below. In addition to these committees, we have other risk committees that provide oversight for different businesses, activities, products, regions and entities. All of our committees have responsibility for considering the impact on our reputation of the transactions and activities that they oversee.
Membership of our risk committees is reviewed regularly and updated to reflect changes in the responsibilities of the committee members. Accordingly, the length of time that members serve on the respective committees varies as determined by the committee chairs and based on the responsibilities of the members.
The chart below presents an overview of our risk management governance structure.

-- ----------------------------
92 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Management Committee. The Management Committee oversees our global activities. It provides this oversight directly and through authority delegated to committees it has established. This committee consists of our most senior leaders, and is chaired by our chief executive officer. Most members of the Management Committee are also members of other committees. The following are the committees that are principally involved in firmwide risk management.
Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing all of our financial and nonfinancial risks. As part of such oversight, the committee is responsible for the ongoing review, approval and monitoring of our enterprise risk management framework, as well as our risk limits and thresholds policy, through delegated authority to the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. This committee also reviews new significant strategic business initiatives to determine whether they are consistent with our risk appetite and risk management capabilities. Additionally, the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee performs enhanced reviews of significant risk events, the top residual and emerging risks, and the overall risk and control environment in each of our business units in order to propose uplifts, identify elements that are common to all business units and analyze the consolidated residual risks that we face. This committee, which reports to the Management Committee, is co-chaired by our president and chief operating officer and our chief risk officer, who are appointed as chairs by our chief executive officer, and the vice-chair is our chief financial officer, who is appointed as vice-chair by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The following are the primary committees or councils that report to the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee (unless otherwise noted):
•Firmwide Risk Council. The Firmwide Risk Council is responsible for the ongoing monitoring of relevant financial risks and related risk limits at the firmwide, business and product levels. This council is co-chaired by our chief financial officer and our chief risk officer.
•Firmwide New Activity Committee. The Firmwide New Activity Committee is responsible for reviewing new activities and for establishing a process to identify and review previously approved activities that are significant and that have changed in complexity and/or structure or present different reputational and suitability concerns over time to consider whether these activities remain appropriate. This committee is co-chaired by our controller and chief accounting officer and our chief operating and strategy officer for Engineering, who are appointed as chairs by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee.

•Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee. The Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee is responsible for overseeing operational risk, and for ensuring our business and operational resilience. To assist the Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee in carrying out its mandate, other risk committees with dedicated oversight for technology-related risks, including cybersecurity matters, report into the Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee. This committee is co-chaired by our chief administrative officer for EMEA and our head of Operational Risk, who are appointed as chairs by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee.
•Firmwide Conduct Committee. The Firmwide Conduct Committee is responsible for the ongoing approval and monitoring of the frameworks and policies which govern our conduct risks. Conduct risk is the risk that our people fail to act in a manner consistent with our Business Principles and related core values, policies or codes, or applicable laws or regulations, thereby falling short in fulfilling their responsibilities to us, our clients, colleagues, other market participants or the broader community. This committee is chaired by our chief legal officer, who is appointed as chair by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee.
•Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. The Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee (through delegated authority from the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee) is responsible for the ongoing approval and monitoring of risk frameworks, policies and parameters related to our core risk management processes, as well as limits and thresholds, at firmwide, business and product levels. In addition, this committee is responsible for overseeing our financial risks and reviews the results of stress tests and scenario analyses. To assist the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee in carrying out its mandate, a number of other risk committees with dedicated oversight for stress testing, model risks, Volcker Rule compliance, as well as our investments or other capital commitments that may give rise to financial risk, report into the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. This committee is chaired by our chief risk officer, who is appointed as chair by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The Firmwide Capital Committee and Firmwide Commitments Committee report to the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee.
Firmwide Capital Committee. The Firmwide Capital Committee provides approval and oversight of debt-related transactions, including principal commitments of our capital. This committee aims to ensure that business, reputational and suitability standards for underwritings and capital commitments are maintained on a global basis. This committee is co-chaired by our head of Credit Risk and a co-head of our Global Financing Group, who are appointed as chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 93

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Firmwide Commitments Committee. The Firmwide Commitments Committee reviews our underwriting and distribution activities with respect to equity and equity-related product offerings, and sets and maintains policies and procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and business standards are maintained on a global basis. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, this committee periodically conducts general strategic reviews of sectors and products and establishes policies in connection with transaction practices. This committee is co-chaired by our chief equity underwriting officer for the Americas, a co-chairman of our Global Financial Institutions Group and a co-head of our Global Investment Grade Capital Markets and Risk Management Group in Global Banking & Markets, who are appointed as chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee.
•Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee. The Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee is responsible for assessing reputational risks arising from transactions that have been identified as having potential heightened reputational risk pursuant to the criteria established by the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee and as determined by committee leadership. This committee is also responsible for overseeing client-related business standards and addressing client-related reputational risk. This committee is chaired by our president and chief operating officer, who is appointed as chair by our chief executive officer, and the vice-chairs are our chief legal officer and the head of Conflicts Resolution, who are appointed as vice-chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee. This committee periodically provides updates to, and receives guidance from, the Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board. The Firmwide Suitability Committee reports to the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee.
Firmwide Suitability Committee. The Firmwide Suitability Committee is responsible for setting standards and policies for product, transaction and client suitability and providing a forum for consistency across functions, regions and products on suitability assessments. This committee also reviews suitability matters escalated from other committees. This committee is co-chaired by our chief compliance officer, and the head of Net Zero Transition Solutions in Global Banking & Markets, who are appointed as chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee.

Firmwide Asset Liability Committee. The Firmwide Asset Liability Committee reviews and approves the strategic direction for our financial resources, including capital, liquidity, funding and balance sheet. This committee has oversight responsibility for asset liability management, including interest rate and currency risk, funds transfer pricing, capital allocation and incentives, and credit ratings. This committee makes recommendations as to any adjustments to asset liability management and financial resource allocation in light of current events, risks, exposures, and regulatory requirements and approves related policies. This committee is co-chaired by our chief financial officer and our global treasurer, who are appointed as chairs by our chief executive officer, and reports to the Management Committee.

Liquidity Risk Management
Overview
Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable to fund ourselves or meet our liquidity needs in the event of firm-specific, broader industry or market liquidity stress events. We have in place a comprehensive and conservative set of liquidity and funding policies. Our principal objective is to be able to fund ourselves and to enable our core businesses to continue to serve clients and generate revenues, even under adverse circumstances.
Treasury, which reports to our chief financial officer, has primary responsibility for developing, managing and executing our liquidity and funding strategy within our risk appetite.
Liquidity Risk, which is independent of our revenue-producing units and Treasury, and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for identifying, monitoring and managing our liquidity risk through firmwide oversight across our global businesses and the establishment of stress testing and limits frameworks.

-- ----------------------------
94 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Liquidity Risk Management Principles
We manage liquidity risk according to three principles: (i) hold sufficient excess liquidity in the form of GCLA to cover outflows during a stressed period, (ii) maintain appropriate Asset-Liability Management and (iii) maintain a viable Contingency Funding Plan.
GCLA. GCLA is liquidity that we maintain to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows and collateral needs in a stressed environment. A primary liquidity principle is to pre-fund our estimated potential cash and collateral needs during a liquidity crisis and hold this liquidity in the form of unencumbered, highly liquid securities and cash. We believe that the securities held in our GCLA would be readily convertible to cash in a matter of days, through liquidation, by entering into repurchase agreements or from maturities of resale agreements, and that this cash would allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell other assets or depend on additional funding from credit-sensitive markets.
Our GCLA reflects the following principles:
•The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most critical to a company’s survival;
•Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Our businesses are diverse, and our liquidity needs are determined by many factors, including market movements, collateral requirements and client commitments, all of which can change dramatically in a difficult funding environment;
•During a liquidity crisis, credit-sensitive funding, including unsecured debt, certain deposits and some types of secured financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms (e.g., interest rates, collateral provisions and tenor) or availability of other types of secured financing may change and certain deposits may be withdrawn; and
•As a result of our policy to pre-fund liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold more unencumbered securities and have larger funding balances than our businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly liquid unencumbered securities, even though it increases our total assets and our funding costs.

We maintain our GCLA across Group Inc., Goldman Sachs Funding LLC (Funding IHC) and Group Inc.’s major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, asset types and clearing agents to provide us with sufficient operating liquidity to ensure timely settlement in all major markets, even in a difficult funding environment. In addition to the GCLA, we maintain cash balances and securities in several of our other entities, primarily for use in specific currencies, entities or jurisdictions where we do not have immediate access to parent company liquidity.
Asset-Liability Management. Our liquidity risk management policies are designed to ensure we have a sufficient amount of financing, even when funding markets experience persistent stress. We manage the maturities and diversity of our funding across markets, products and counterparties, and seek to maintain a diversified funding profile with an appropriate tenor, taking into consideration the characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets.
Our approach to asset-liability management includes:
•Conservatively managing the overall characteristics of our funding book, with a focus on maintaining long-term, diversified sources of funding in excess of our current requirements. See “Balance Sheet and Funding Sources — Funding Sources” for further information;
•Actively managing and monitoring our asset base, with particular focus on the liquidity, holding period and ability to fund assets on a secured basis. We assess our funding requirements and our ability to liquidate assets in a stressed environment while appropriately managing risk. This enables us to determine the most appropriate funding products and tenors. See “Balance Sheet and Funding Sources — Balance Sheet Management” for further information about our balance sheet management process and “— Funding Sources — Secured Funding” for further information about asset classes that may be harder to fund on a secured basis; and
•Raising secured and unsecured financing that has a long tenor relative to the liquidity profile of our assets. This reduces the risk that our liabilities will come due in advance of our ability to generate liquidity from the sale of our assets. Because we maintain a highly liquid balance sheet, the holding period of certain of our assets may be materially shorter than their contractual maturity dates.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 95

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Our goal is to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our assets and meet our contractual and contingent obligations in normal times, as well as during periods of market stress. Through our dynamic balance sheet management process, we use actual and projected asset balances to determine secured and unsecured funding requirements. Funding plans are reviewed and approved by the Firmwide Asset Liability Committee. In addition, our independent risk oversight and control functions analyze, and the Firmwide Asset Liability Committee reviews, our consolidated total capital position (unsecured long-term borrowings plus total shareholders’ equity) so that we maintain a level of long-term funding that is sufficient to meet our long-term financing requirements. In a liquidity crisis, we would first use our GCLA in order to avoid reliance on asset sales (other than our GCLA). However, we recognize that orderly asset sales may be prudent or necessary in a severe or persistent liquidity crisis.
Subsidiary Funding Policies
The majority of our unsecured funding is raised by Group Inc., which provides the necessary funds to Funding IHC and other subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset financing, liquidity and capital requirements. In addition, Group Inc. provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding are enhanced control and greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our subsidiaries. Funding is also raised at the subsidiary level through a variety of products, including deposits, secured funding and unsecured borrowings.
Our intercompany funding policies assume that a subsidiary’s funds or securities are not freely available to its parent, Funding IHC or other subsidiaries unless (i) legally provided for and (ii) there are no additional regulatory, tax or other restrictions. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group Inc. or Funding IHC. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on its obligations. Accordingly, we assume that the capital provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to Group Inc. or other subsidiaries and any other financing provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to Group Inc. or Funding IHC until the maturity of such financing.

Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its regulated subsidiaries. For example, as of December 2022, Group Inc. had $39.33 billion of equity and subordinated indebtedness invested in GS&Co., its principal U.S. registered broker-dealer; $47.74 billion invested in GSI, a regulated U.K. broker-dealer; $2.62 billion invested in GSJCL, a regulated Japanese broker-dealer; $52.55 billion invested in GS Bank USA, a regulated New York State-chartered bank; and $4.25 billion invested in GSIB, a regulated U.K. bank. Group Inc. also provides financing, directly or indirectly, in the form of: $108.14 billion of unsubordinated loans (including secured loans of $52.93 billion) and $30.16 billion of collateral and cash deposits to these entities as of December 2022. In addition, as of December 2022, Group Inc. had significant amounts of capital invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.
Contingency Funding Plan. We maintain a contingency funding plan to provide a framework for analyzing and responding to a liquidity crisis situation or periods of market stress. Our contingency funding plan outlines a list of potential risk factors, key reports and metrics that are reviewed on an ongoing basis to assist in assessing the severity of, and managing through, a liquidity crisis and/or market dislocation. The contingency funding plan also describes in detail our potential responses if our assessments indicate that we have entered a liquidity crisis, which include pre-funding for what we estimate will be our potential cash and collateral needs, as well as utilizing secondary sources of liquidity. Mitigants and action items to address specific risks which may arise are also described and assigned to individuals responsible for execution.
The contingency funding plan identifies key groups of individuals and their responsibilities, which include fostering effective coordination, control and distribution of information, implementing liquidity maintenance activities and managing internal and external communication, all of which are critical in the management of a crisis or period of market stress.

-- ----------------------------
96 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Stress Tests
In order to determine the appropriate size of our GCLA, we model liquidity outflows over a range of scenarios and time horizons. One of our primary internal liquidity risk models, referred to as the Modeled Liquidity Outflow, quantifies our liquidity risks over a 30-day stress scenario. We also consider other factors, including, but not limited to, an assessment of our potential intraday liquidity needs through an additional internal liquidity risk model, referred to as the Intraday Liquidity Model, the results of our long-term stress testing models, our resolution liquidity models and other applicable regulatory requirements and a qualitative assessment of our condition, as well as the financial markets. The results of the Modeled Liquidity Outflow, the Intraday Liquidity Model, the long-term stress testing models and the resolution liquidity models are reported to senior management on a regular basis. We also perform firmwide stress tests. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about firmwide stress tests.
Modeled Liquidity Outflow. Our Modeled Liquidity Outflow is based on conducting multiple scenarios that include combinations of market-wide and firm-specific stress. These scenarios are characterized by the following qualitative elements:
•Severely challenged market environments, which include low consumer and corporate confidence, financial and political instability, and adverse changes in market values, including potential declines in equity markets and widening of credit spreads; and
•A firm-specific crisis potentially triggered by material losses, reputational damage, litigation and/or a ratings downgrade.
The following are key modeling elements of our Modeled Liquidity Outflow:
•Liquidity needs over a 30-day scenario;
•A two-notch downgrade of our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings;
•Changing conditions in funding markets, which limit our access to unsecured and secured funding;
•No support from additional government funding facilities. Although we have access to various central bank funding programs, we do not assume reliance on additional sources of funding in a liquidity crisis; and

•A combination of contractual outflows and contingent outflows arising from both our on- and off-balance sheet arrangements. Contractual outflows include, among other things, upcoming maturities of unsecured debt, term deposits and secured funding. Contingent outflows include, among other things, the withdrawal of customer credit balances in our prime brokerage business, increase in variation margin requirements due to adverse changes in the value of our exchange-traded and OTC-cleared derivatives, draws on unfunded commitments and withdrawals of deposits that have no contractual maturity. See notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information about contractual outflows, including Note 11 for collateralized financings, Note 13 for deposits, Note 14 for unsecured long-term borrowings and Note 15 for operating lease payments, and “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” for further information about our various types of off-balance sheet arrangements.
Intraday Liquidity Model. Our Intraday Liquidity Model measures our intraday liquidity needs using a scenario analysis characterized by the same qualitative elements as our Modeled Liquidity Outflow. The model assesses the risk of increased intraday liquidity requirements during a scenario where access to sources of intraday liquidity may become constrained.
Long-Term Stress Testing. We utilize longer-term stress tests to take a forward view on our liquidity position through prolonged stress periods in which we experience a severe liquidity stress and recover in an environment that continues to be challenging. We are focused on ensuring conservative asset-liability management to prepare for a prolonged period of potential stress, seeking to maintain a diversified funding profile with an appropriate tenor, taking into consideration the characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets.
Resolution Liquidity Models. In connection with our resolution planning efforts, we have established our Resolution Liquidity Adequacy and Positioning framework, which estimates liquidity needs of our major subsidiaries in a stressed environment. The liquidity needs are measured using our Modeled Liquidity Outflow assumptions and include certain additional inter-affiliate exposures. We have also established our Resolution Liquidity Execution Need framework, which measures the liquidity needs of our major subsidiaries to stabilize and wind down following a Group Inc. bankruptcy filing in accordance with our preferred resolution strategy.
In addition, we have established a triggers and alerts framework, which is designed to provide the Board with information needed to make an informed decision on whether and when to commence bankruptcy proceedings for Group Inc.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 97

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Limits
We use liquidity risk limits at various levels and across liquidity risk types to manage the size of our liquidity exposures. Limits are measured relative to acceptable levels of risk given our liquidity risk tolerance. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about the limit approval process.
Limits are monitored by Treasury and Liquidity Risk. Liquidity Risk is responsible for identifying and escalating to senior management and/or the appropriate risk committee, on a timely basis, instances where limits have been exceeded.
GCLA and Unencumbered Metrics
GCLA. Based on the results of our internal liquidity risk models, described above, as well as our consideration of other factors, including, but not limited to, a qualitative assessment of our condition, as well as the financial markets, we believe our liquidity position as of both December 2022 and December 2021 was appropriate. We strictly limit our GCLA to a narrowly defined list of securities and cash because they are highly liquid, even in a difficult funding environment. We do not include other potential sources of excess liquidity in our GCLA, such as less liquid unencumbered securities or committed credit facilities.
The table below presents information about our GCLA.

-------------------------------- --------------- ------- ---------- ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- - -------
 Average for the

 Three Months Year Ended
 Ended December December
$ in millions 2022 2021 2022 2021
Denomination
U.S. dollar $ 312,414 $ 230,720 $ 281,427 $ 217,797
Non-U.S. dollar 96,404 122,401 116,655 116,723
Total $ 408,818 $ 353,121 $ 398,082 $ 334,520

Asset Class
Overnight cash deposits $ 217,141 $ 188,223 $ 228,203 $ 173,000
U.S. government obligations 149,519 107,898 126,349 108,260
U.S. agency obligations 12,789 13,154 11,007 10,183
Non-U.S. government obligations 29,369 43,846 32,523 43,077
Total $ 408,818 $ 353,121 $ 398,082 $ 334,520

Entity Type
Group Inc. and Funding IHC $ 69,386 $ 54,489 $ 64,579 $ 53,205
Major broker-dealer subsidiaries 109,502 107,279 113,887 104,326
Major bank subsidiaries 229,930 191,353 219,616 176,989
Total $ 408,818 $ 353,121 $ 398,082 $ 334,520

In the table above:
•The U.S. dollar-denominated GCLA consists of (i) unencumbered U.S. government and agency obligations (including highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage-backed obligations), all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal Reserve open market operations and (ii) certain overnight U.S. dollar cash deposits.
•The non-U.S. dollar-denominated GCLA consists of non-U.S. government obligations (only unencumbered German, French, Japanese and U.K. government obligations) and certain overnight cash deposits in highly liquid currencies.

We maintain our GCLA to enable us to meet current and potential liquidity requirements of our parent company, Group Inc., and its subsidiaries. Our Modeled Liquidity Outflow and Intraday Liquidity Model incorporate a requirement for Group Inc., as well as a standalone requirement for each of our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries. Funding IHC is required to provide the necessary liquidity to Group Inc. during the ordinary course of business, and is also obligated to provide capital and liquidity support to major subsidiaries in the event of our material financial distress or failure. Liquidity held directly in each of our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries is intended for use only by that subsidiary to meet its liquidity requirements and is assumed not to be available to Group Inc. or Funding IHC unless (i) legally provided for and (ii) there are no additional regulatory, tax or other restrictions. In addition, the Modeled Liquidity Outflow and Intraday Liquidity Model also incorporate a broader assessment of standalone liquidity requirements for other subsidiaries and we hold a portion of our GCLA directly at Group Inc. or Funding IHC to support such requirements.
Other Unencumbered Assets. In addition to our GCLA, we have a significant amount of other unencumbered cash and financial instruments, including other government obligations, high-grade money market securities, corporate obligations, marginable equities, loans and cash deposits not included in our GCLA. The fair value of our unencumbered assets averaged $273.49 billion for the three months ended December 2022, $271.65 billion for the three months ended December 2021, $275.69 billion for the year ended December 2022 and $249.32 billion for the year ended December 2021. We do not consider these assets liquid enough to be eligible for our GCLA.
Liquidity Regulatory Framework
As a BHC, we are subject to a minimum Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) under the LCR rule approved by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies. The LCR rule requires organizations to maintain an adequate ratio of eligible high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) to expected net cash outflows under an acute, short-term liquidity stress scenario. Eligible HQLA excludes HQLA held by subsidiaries that is in excess of their minimum requirement and is subject to transfer restrictions. We are required to maintain a minimum LCR of 100%. We expect that fluctuations in client activity, business mix and the market environment will impact our LCR.
The table below presents information about our average daily LCR.

----------------- --------------------------------- --------- -------- - ------- - - -------
 Average for theThree Months Ended
 December September December
$ in millions 2022 2022 2021
Total HQLA $ 401,836 $ 407,969 $ 342,047
Eligible HQLA $ 291,118 $ 279,121 $ 248,570
Net cash outflows $ 226,532 $ 224,408 $ 203,623
LCR 129 % 124 % 122 %

-- ----------------------------
98 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

As a BHC, we are subject to a net stable funding ratio (NSFR) requirement established by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies, which requires large U.S. banking organizations to ensure they have access to stable funding over a one-year time horizon. The rule also requires disclosure of our quarterly average daily NSFR on a semi-annual basis and a description of the banking organization’s stable funding sources. We will begin doing so in August 2023. Our NSFR as of December 2022 exceeded the minimum requirement.
The following provides information about our subsidiary liquidity regulatory requirements:
•GS Bank USA. GS Bank USA is subject to a minimum LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies. As of December 2022, GS Bank USA’s LCR exceeded the minimum requirement. The NSFR requirement described above also applies to GS Bank USA. As of December 2022, GS Bank USA’s NSFR exceeded the minimum requirement.
•GSI and GSIB. GSI and GSIB are subject to a minimum LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the U.K. regulatory authorities. GSI’s and GSIB’s average monthly LCR for the trailing twelve-month period ended December 2022 exceeded the minimum requirement. GSI and GSIB are subject to the applicable NSFR requirement in the U.K. As of December 2022, both GSI’s and GSIB’s NSFR exceeded the minimum requirement.
•GSBE. GSBE is subject to a minimum LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the European Parliament and Council. GSBE’s average monthly LCR for the trailing twelve-month period ended December 2022 exceeded the minimum requirement. GSBE is subject to the applicable NSFR requirement in the E.U. As of December 2022, GSBE’s NSFR exceeded the minimum requirement.
•Other Subsidiaries. We monitor local regulatory liquidity requirements of our subsidiaries to ensure compliance. For many of our subsidiaries, these requirements either have changed or are likely to change in the future due to the implementation of the Basel Committee’s framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring, as well as other regulatory developments.
The implementation of these rules and any amendments adopted by the regulatory authorities could impact our liquidity and funding requirements and practices in the future.

Credit Ratings
We rely on the short- and long-term debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our day-to-day operations and the cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are also important when we are competing in certain markets, such as OTC derivatives, and when we seek to engage in longer-term transactions. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for information about the risks associated with a reduction in our credit ratings.
The table below presents the unsecured credit ratings and outlook of Group Inc.

----------------- ------------------- ------ ------- ------ ------
 As of December 2022
 DBRS Fitch Moody’s R&I S&P
Short-term debt R-1 (middle) F1 P-1 a-1 A-2
Long-term debt A (high) A A2 A BBB+
Subordinated debt A BBB+ Baa2 A- BBB
Trust preferred A BBB- Baa3 N/A BB+
Preferred stock BBB (high) BBB- Ba1 N/A BB+
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable Stable Stable

In the table above:
•The ratings and outlook are by DBRS, Inc. (DBRS), Fitch, Inc. (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s), Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P).
•The ratings for trust preferred relate to the guaranteed preferred beneficial interests issued by Goldman Sachs Capital I.
•The DBRS, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P ratings for preferred stock include the APEX issued by Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 99

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents the unsecured credit ratings and outlook of GS Bank USA, GSIB, GSBE, GS&Co. and GSI.

------------------------ ------------------- ------- ------
 As of December 2022
 Fitch Moody’s S&P
GS Bank USA
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Short-term bank deposits F1+ P-1 N/A
Long-term bank deposits AA- A1 N/A
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable
GSIB
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Short-term bank deposits F1 P-1 N/A
Long-term bank deposits A+ A1 N/A
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable
GSBE
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Short-term bank deposits N/A P-1 N/A
Long-term bank deposits N/A A1 N/A
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable
GS&Co.
Short-term debt F1 N/A A-1
Long-term debt A+ N/A A+
Ratings outlook Stable N/A Stable
GSI
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable

We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating agencies’ assessment of:
•Our liquidity, market, credit and operational risk management practices;
•Our level and variability of earnings;
•Our capital base;
•Our franchise, reputation and management;
•Our corporate governance; and
•The external operating and economic environment, including, in some cases, the assumed level of government support or other systemic considerations, such as potential resolution.
Certain of our derivatives have been transacted under bilateral agreements with counterparties who may require us to post collateral or terminate the transactions based on changes in our credit ratings. We manage our GCLA to ensure we would, among other potential requirements, be able to make the additional collateral or termination payments that may be required in the event of a two-notch reduction in our long-term credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to them.
See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about derivatives with credit-related contingent features and the additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements that could have been called by counterparties in the event of a one- or two-notch downgrade in our credit ratings.

Cash Flows
As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets. Consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the liquidity and asset-liability management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may, however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and strategic initiatives in our businesses.
Year Ended December 2022. Our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $19.21 billion to $241.83 billion at the end of 2022, primarily due to net cash used for investing activities, partially offset by net cash provided by financing activities. The net cash used for investing activities primarily reflected purchases of investments (primarily U.S. government obligations accounted for as held-to-maturity) and an increase in net lending activities (reflecting increases in other collateralized and consumer loans). The net cash provided by financing activities primarily reflected cash inflows from net issuances of unsecured long-term borrowings and deposits (reflecting increases in transaction banking and private bank and consumer deposits, partially offset by a decrease in other deposits). The net cash provided by operating activities primarily reflected cash inflows from trading assets and liabilities, customer and other receivables and payables, net (reflecting both a decrease in customer and other receivables and an increase in customer and other payables), net earnings and loans held for sale, net, partially offset by cash outflows from collateralized transactions (reflecting both a decrease in collateralized financings and an increase in collateralized agreements). The decrease in cash and cash equivalents as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening during the year. Such amount was $11.56 billion for 2022 ($3.42 billion for the three months ended March 2022, $10.34 billion for the six months ended June 2022 and $18.17 billion for the nine months ended September 2022).
Year Ended December 2021. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $105.19 billion to $261.04 billion at the end of 2021, primarily due to net cash provided by financing activities, partially offset by net cash used for investing activities. The net cash provided by financing activities primarily reflected an increase in net deposits (reflecting increases across channels) and net issuances of unsecured long-term borrowings. The net cash used for investing activities primarily reflected purchases of investments and an increase in net lending activities, partially offset by sales and paydowns of investments.
For an analysis of cash flows for the year ended December 2020, see Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021.

--- ----------------------------
100 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Market Risk Management
Overview
Market risk is the risk of an adverse impact to our earnings due to changes in market conditions. Our assets and liabilities that give rise to market risk primarily include positions held for market making for our clients and for our investing and financing activities, and these positions change based on client demands and our investment opportunities. We employ a variety of risk measures, each described in the respective sections below, to monitor market risk. Categories of market risk include the following:
•Interest rate risk: results from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of yield curves, the volatilities of interest rates, prepayment speeds and credit spreads;
•Equity price risk: results from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, baskets of equities and equity indices;
•Currency rate risk: results from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates; and
•Commodity price risk: results from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as crude oil, petroleum products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals.
Market Risk, which is independent of our revenue-producing units and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing our market risk through firmwide oversight across our global businesses.
Managers in revenue-producing units, Treasury and Market Risk discuss market information, positions and estimated loss scenarios on an ongoing basis. Managers in revenue-producing units and Treasury are accountable for managing risk within prescribed limits. These managers have in-depth knowledge of their positions, markets and the instruments available to hedge their exposures.

Market Risk Management Process
Our process for managing market risk includes the critical components of our risk management framework described in the “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” as well as the following:
•Monitoring compliance with established market risk limits and reporting our exposures;
•Diversifying exposures;
•Controlling position sizes; and
•Evaluating mitigants, such as economic hedges in related securities or derivatives.
Our market risk management systems enable us to perform an independent calculation of Value-at-Risk (VaR), Earnings-at-Risk (EaR) and other stress measures, capture risk measures at individual position levels, attribute risk measures to individual risk factors of each position, report many different views of the risk measures (e.g., by desk, business, product type or entity) and produce ad hoc analyses in a timely manner.
Risk Measures
We produce risk measures and monitor them against established market risk limits. These measures reflect an extensive range of scenarios and the results are aggregated at product, business and firmwide levels.
We use a variety of risk measures to estimate the size of potential losses for both moderate and more extreme market moves over both short- and long-term time horizons. Our primary risk measures are VaR, EaR and other stress tests.
Our risk reports detail key risks, drivers and changes for each desk and business, and are distributed daily to senior management of both our revenue-producing units and our independent risk oversight and control functions.
Value-at-Risk. VaR is the potential loss in value due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level. For assets and liabilities included in VaR, see “Financial Statement Linkages to Market Risk Measures.” We typically employ a one-day time horizon with a 95% confidence level. We use a single VaR model, which captures risks, including interest rates, equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. As such, VaR facilitates comparison across portfolios of different risk characteristics. VaR also captures the diversification of aggregated risk at the firmwide level.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 101

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

We are aware of the inherent limitations to VaR and therefore use a variety of risk measures in our market risk management process. Inherent limitations to VaR include:
•VaR does not estimate potential losses over longer time horizons where moves may be extreme;
•VaR does not take account of the relative liquidity of different risk positions; and
•Previous moves in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of all future market moves.
To comprehensively capture our exposures and relevant risks in our VaR calculation, we use historical simulations with full valuation of market factors at the position level by simultaneously shocking the relevant market factors for that position. These market factors include spot prices, credit spreads, funding spreads, yield curves, volatility and correlation, and are updated periodically based on changes in the composition of positions, as well as variations in market conditions. We sample from five years of historical data to generate the scenarios for our VaR calculation. The historical data is weighted so that the relative importance of the data reduces over time. This gives greater importance to more recent observations and reflects current asset volatilities, which improves the accuracy of our estimates of potential loss. As a result, even if our positions included in VaR were unchanged, our VaR would increase with increasing market volatility and vice versa.
Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions.
Our VaR measure does not include:
•Positions that are not accounted for at fair value, such as held-to-maturity securities and loans, deposits and unsecured borrowings that are accounted for at amortized cost;
•Available-for-sale securities for which the related unrealized fair value gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss);
•Positions that are best measured and monitored using sensitivity measures; and
•The impact of changes in counterparty and our own credit spreads on derivatives, as well as changes in our own credit spreads on financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected.
We perform daily backtesting of our VaR model (i.e., comparing daily net revenues for positions included in VaR to the VaR measure calculated as of the prior business day) at the firmwide level and for each of our businesses and major regulated subsidiaries.

Earnings-at-Risk. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2022, we started managing our interest rate risk using the EaR metric. EaR measures the estimated impact of changes in interest rates to our net revenues and preferred stock dividends over a defined time horizon. EaR complements the VaR metric, which measures the impact of interest rate changes that have an immediate impact on the fair values of our assets and liabilities (i.e., mark-to-market changes). Our exposure to interest rate risk occurs due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:
•Differences in maturity or repricing dates of assets, liabilities, preferred stock and certain off-balance sheet instruments.
•Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities, preferred stock and certain off-balance sheet instruments with the same maturity or repricing dates.
•Certain interest rate sensitive fees.
Treasury manages the aggregated interest rate risk from all businesses through our investment securities portfolio and interest rate derivatives. We measure EaR over a one-year time horizon following a 100-basis point instantaneous parallel shock in both short- and long-term interest rates. This sensitivity is calculated relative to a baseline market scenario, which takes into consideration, among other things, the market’s expectation of forward rates, as well as our expectation of future business activity. This scenario includes contractual elements of assets, liabilities, preferred stock, and certain off-balance sheet instruments, such as rates of interest, principal repayment schedules, maturity and reset dates, and any interest rate ceilings or floors, as well as assumptions with respect to our balance sheet size and composition, deposit repricing and prepayment behavior. We manage EaR with a goal to reduce potential volatility resulting from changes in interest rates so it remains within our EaR risk appetite. Our EaR scenario is regularly evaluated and updated, if necessary, to reflect changes in our business plans, market conditions and other macroeconomic factors. While management uses the best information available to estimate EaR, actual results may differ materially as a result of, among other things, changes in the economic environment or assumptions used in the process.
Risk, which is independent of our revenue-producing units, and Treasury, have primary responsibility for assessing and monitoring EaR through firmwide oversight, including oversight of EaR stress testing and assumptions, and the establishment of our EaR risk appetite.

--- ----------------------------
102 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Stress Testing. Stress testing is a method of determining the effect of various hypothetical stress scenarios. In addition to EaR, we use other stress tests to examine risks of specific portfolios, as well as the potential impact of our significant risk exposures. We use a variety of stress testing techniques to calculate the potential loss from a wide range of market moves on our portfolios, including firmwide stress tests, sensitivity analysis and scenario analysis. The results of our various stress tests are analyzed together for risk management purposes. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about firmwide stress tests.
Sensitivity analysis is used to quantify the impact of a market move in a single risk factor across all positions (e.g., equity prices or credit spreads) using a variety of defined market shocks, ranging from those that could be expected over a one-day time horizon up to those that could take many months to occur. We also use sensitivity analysis to quantify the impact of the default of any single entity, which captures the risk of large or concentrated exposures.
Scenario analysis is used to quantify the impact of a specified event, including how the event impacts multiple risk factors simultaneously. For example, for sovereign stress testing we calculate potential direct exposure associated with our sovereign positions, as well as the corresponding debt, equity and currency exposures associated with our non-sovereign positions that may be impacted by the sovereign distress. When conducting scenario analysis, we often consider a number of possible outcomes for each scenario, ranging from moderate to severely adverse market impacts. In addition, these stress tests are constructed using both historical events and forward-looking hypothetical scenarios.
Unlike VaR measures, which have an implied probability because they are calculated at a specified confidence level, there may not be an implied probability that our stress testing scenarios will occur. Instead, stress testing is used to model both moderate and more extreme moves in underlying market factors. When estimating potential loss, we generally assume that our positions cannot be reduced or hedged (although experience demonstrates that we are generally able to do so).
Limits
We use market risk limits at various levels to manage the size of our market exposures. These limits are set based on VaR, EaR and on a range of stress tests relevant to our exposures. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about the limit approval process.
Limits are monitored by Treasury and Risk. Risk is responsible for identifying and escalating to senior management and/or the appropriate risk committee, on a timely basis, instances where limits have been exceeded (e.g., due to positional changes or changes in market conditions, such as increased volatilities or changes in correlations). Such instances are remediated by a reduction in the positions we hold and/or a temporary or permanent increase to the limit, if warranted.

Metrics
We analyze VaR at the firmwide level and a variety of more detailed levels, including by risk category, business and region. Diversification effect in the tables below represents the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.
The table below presents our average daily VaR.

---------------------- ------------------- ---- ---- ---- - --

 Year Ended December

$ in millions 2022 2021
Categories
Interest rates $ 97 $ 60
Equity prices 33 43
Currency rates 32 13
Commodity prices 47 25
Diversification effect (95) (55)
Total $ 114 $ 86

Our average daily VaR increased to $114 million in 2022 from $86 million in 2021, due to higher levels of volatility, partially offset by reduced exposures. The total increase was driven by increases in the interest rates, commodity prices and currency rates categories, partially offset by an increase in the diversification effect and a decrease in the equity prices category.
The table below presents our period-end VaR.

---------------------- -------------- ---- ---- - --
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Categories
Interest rates $ 108 $ 69
Equity prices 27 31
Currency rates 35 19
Commodity prices 18 30
Diversification effect (85) (58)
Total $ 103 $ 91

Our period-end VaR increased to $103 million as of December 2022 from $91 million as of December 2021, due to higher levels of volatility, partially offset by reduced exposures. The total increase was primarily driven by increases in the interest rates and currency rates categories, partially offset by an increase in the diversification effect and a decrease in the commodity prices category.
During 2022, the firmwide VaR risk limit was exceeded on six occasions (all of which occurred during March 2022) primarily due to higher levels of volatility generally resulting from broad macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns. These limit breaches were resolved by temporary increases in the firmwide VaR risk limit and subsequent risk reductions. During this period, the firmwide VaR risk limit was also permanently increased due to higher levels of volatility. During 2021, the firmwide VaR risk limit was not exceeded and there were no permanent or temporary changes to the firmwide VaR risk limit.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 103

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents our high and low VaR.

---------------- ------------------- --- - ---- ---- --- - --- - --
 Year Ended December

 2022 2021

$ in millions High Low High Low
Categories
Interest rates $ 139 $ 57 $ 74 $ 49
Equity prices $ 48 $ 25 $ 71 $ 30
Currency rates $ 55 $ 16 $ 20 $ 8
Commodity prices $ 82 $ 18 $ 45 $ 14
Firmwide
VaR $ 158 $ 76 $ 105 $ 69

The chart below presents our daily VaR for 2022.

The table below presents, by number of business days, the frequency distribution of our daily net revenues for positions included in VaR.

-------------- ------------------- ----

 Year Ended December
$ in millions 2022 2021
>$100 92 53
$75 – $100 25 45
$50 – $75 29 42
$25 – $50 33 33
$0 – $25 36 45
$(25) – $0 17 24
$(50) – $(25) 13 6
$(75) – $(50) 1 2
$(100) – $(75) 3 1
 2 1
Total 251 252

Daily net revenues for positions included in VaR are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the prior business day. Net losses incurred on a single day for such positions exceeded our 95% one-day VaR (i.e., a VaR exception) on two occasions during 2022 and on one occasion during 2021.

During periods in which we have significantly more positive net revenue days than net revenue loss days, we expect to have fewer VaR exceptions because, under normal conditions, our business model generally produces positive net revenues. In periods in which our franchise revenues are adversely affected, we generally have more loss days, resulting in more VaR exceptions. The daily net revenues for positions included in VaR used to determine VaR exceptions reflect the impact of any intraday activity, including bid/offer net revenues, which are more likely than not to be positive by their nature.
Sensitivity Measures
Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR because VaR is not the most appropriate risk measure. Other sensitivity measures we use to analyze market risk are described below.
10% Sensitivity Measures. The table below presents our market risk by asset category for positions accounted for at fair value, that are not included in VaR.

------------- -------------- ----- - -----
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
Equity $ 1,621 $ 1,953
Debt 1,986 2,244
Total $ 3,607 $ 4,197

In the table above:
•The market risk of these positions is determined by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues of a 10% decline in the value of these positions.
•Equity positions relate to private and restricted public equity securities, including interests in funds that invest in corporate equities and real estate and interests in hedge funds.
•Debt positions include interests in funds that invest in corporate mezzanine and senior debt instruments, loans backed by commercial and residential real estate, corporate bank loans and other corporate debt, including acquired portfolios of distressed loans.
•Funded equity and debt positions are included in our consolidated balance sheets in investments and loans. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about investments and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about loans.
•These measures do not reflect the diversification effect across asset categories or across other market risk measures.

--- ----------------------------
104 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Credit and Funding Spread Sensitivity on Derivatives and Financial Liabilities. VaR excludes the impact of changes in counterparty credit spreads, our own credit spreads and unsecured funding spreads on derivatives, as well as changes in our own credit spreads (debt valuation adjustment) on financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected. The estimated sensitivity to a one basis point increase in credit spreads (counterparty and our own) and unsecured funding spreads on derivatives (including hedges) was a loss of $1 million as of both December 2022 and December 2021. In addition, the estimated sensitivity to a one basis point increase in our own credit spreads on financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected was a gain of $37 million as of December 2022 and $33 million as of December 2021. However, the actual net impact of a change in our own credit spreads is also affected by the liquidity, duration and convexity (as the sensitivity is not linear to changes in yields) of those financial liabilities for which the fair value option was elected, as well as the relative performance of any hedges undertaken.
Earnings-at-Risk. The table below presents the impact of a parallel shift in rates on our net revenues and preferred stock dividends over the next 12 months relative to the baseline scenario.

----------------------------------------- -------------- ----- ---- ---
 As of December
$ in millions 2022 2021
+100 basis points parallel shift in rates $ 104 $ 782
-100 basis points parallel shift in rates $ (104) N.M.

In the table above:
•The EaR metric utilized various assumptions, including, among other things, balance sheet size and composition, deposit repricing and prepayment behavior, all of which have inherent uncertainties. The EaR metric does not represent a forecast of our net revenues and preferred stock dividends.
•The change in our sensitivities as of December 2022 compared to December 2021 primarily reflects the impact of changes in our investment securities portfolio and interest rate derivatives.
•The -100 basis points parallel shift in rates scenario was not meaningful as of December 2021 given the low interest rate environment.

Other Market Risk Considerations
We make investments in securities that are accounted for as available-for-sale, held-to-maturity or under the equity method which are included in investments in the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.
Direct investments in real estate are accounted for at cost less accumulated depreciation. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about other assets.
Financial Statement Linkages to Market Risk Measures
We employ a variety of risk measures, each described in the respective sections above, to monitor market risk across the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of earnings. The related gains and losses on these positions are included in market making, other principal transactions, interest income and interest expense in the consolidated statements of earnings, and debt valuation adjustment and unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
The table below presents certain assets and liabilities accounted for at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets and the market risk measures used to assess those assets and liabilities.

---------------------------------------- -----------------------------
Assets or Liabilities Market Risk Measures
Collateralized agreements and financings VaR
Customer and other receivables 10% Sensitivity Measures
Trading assets and liabilities VaR Credit Spread Sensitivity
Investments VaR10% Sensitivity Measures
Loans VaR10% Sensitivity Measures
Other assets and liabilities VaR
Deposits VaRCredit Spread Sensitivity
Unsecured borrowings VaRCredit Spread Sensitivity

In addition to the above, we measure the interest rate risk for all positions within our consolidated balance sheets using the EaR metric.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 105

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Credit Risk Management
Overview
Credit risk represents the potential for loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of a counterparty (e.g., an OTC derivatives counterparty or a borrower) or an issuer of securities or other instruments we hold. Our exposure to credit risk comes mostly from client transactions in OTC derivatives and loans and lending commitments. Credit risk also comes from cash placed with banks, securities financing transactions (i.e., resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending activities) and customer and other receivables.
Credit Risk, which is independent of our revenue-producing units and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing our credit risk through firmwide oversight across our global businesses. In addition, we hold other positions that give rise to credit risk (e.g., bonds and secondary bank loans). These credit risks are captured as a component of market risk measures, which are monitored and managed by Market Risk. We also enter into derivatives to manage market risk exposures. Such derivatives also give rise to credit risk, which is monitored and managed by Credit Risk.
Credit Risk Management Process
Our process for managing credit risk includes the critical components of our risk management framework described in the “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” as well as the following:
•Monitoring compliance with established credit risk limits and reporting our credit exposures and credit concentrations;
•Establishing or approving underwriting standards;
•Assessing the likelihood that a counterparty will default on its payment obligations;
•Measuring our current and potential credit exposure and losses resulting from a counterparty default;
•Using credit risk mitigants, including collateral and hedging; and
•Maximizing recovery through active workout and restructuring of claims.

We also perform credit analyses, which incorporate initial and ongoing evaluations of the capacity and willingness of a counterparty to meet its financial obligations. For substantially all of our credit exposures, the core of our process is an annual counterparty credit evaluation or more frequently if deemed necessary as a result of events or changes in circumstances. We determine an internal credit rating for the counterparty by considering the results of the credit evaluations and assumptions with respect to the nature of and outlook for the counterparty’s industry and the economic environment. The internal credit rating does not take into consideration collateral received or other credit support arrangements. Senior personnel, with expertise in specific industries, inspect and approve credit reviews and internal credit ratings.
Our risk assessment process may also include, where applicable, reviewing certain key metrics, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, collateral value, FICO credit scores and other risk factors.
Our credit risk management systems capture credit exposure to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to counterparties and their subsidiaries. These systems also provide management with comprehensive information about our aggregate credit risk by product, internal credit rating, industry, country and region.
Risk Measures
We measure our credit risk based on the potential loss in the event of non-payment by a counterparty using current and potential exposure. For derivatives and securities financing transactions, current exposure represents the amount presently owed to us after taking into account applicable netting and collateral arrangements, while potential exposure represents our estimate of the future exposure that could arise over the life of a transaction based on market movements within a specified confidence level. Potential exposure also takes into account netting and collateral arrangements. For loans and lending commitments, the primary measure is a function of the notional amount of the position.

--- ----------------------------
106 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Stress Tests
We conduct regular stress tests to calculate the credit exposures, including potential concentrations that would result from applying shocks to counterparty credit ratings or credit risk factors (e.g., currency rates, interest rates, equity prices). These shocks cover a wide range of moderate and more extreme market movements, including shocks to multiple risk factors, consistent with the occurrence of a severe market or economic event. In the case of sovereign default, we estimate the direct impact of the default on our sovereign credit exposures, changes to our credit exposures arising from potential market moves in response to the default, and the impact of credit market deterioration on corporate borrowers and counterparties that may result from the sovereign default. Unlike potential exposure, which is calculated within a specified confidence level, stress testing does not generally assume a probability of these events occurring. We also perform firmwide stress tests. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about firmwide stress tests.
To supplement these regular stress tests, as described above, we also conduct tailored stress tests on an ad hoc basis in response to specific market events that we deem significant. We also utilize these stress tests to estimate the indirect impact of certain hypothetical events on our country exposures, such as the impact of credit market deterioration on corporate borrowers and counterparties along with the shocks to the risk factors described above. The parameters of these shocks vary based on the scenario reflected in each stress test. We review estimated losses produced by the stress tests in order to understand their magnitude, highlight potential loss concentrations, and assess and mitigate our exposures where necessary.

Limits
We use credit risk limits at various levels, as well as underwriting standards to manage the size and nature of our credit exposures. Limits for industries and countries are based on our risk appetite and are designed to allow for regular monitoring, review, escalation and management of credit risk concentrations. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about the limit approval process.
Credit Risk is responsible for monitoring these limits, and identifying and escalating to senior management and/or the appropriate risk committee, on a timely basis, instances where limits have been exceeded.
Risk Mitigants
To reduce our credit exposures on derivatives and securities financing transactions, we may enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. We may also reduce credit risk with counterparties by entering into agreements that enable us to obtain collateral from them on an upfront or contingent basis and/or to terminate transactions if the counterparty’s credit rating falls below a specified level. We monitor the fair value of the collateral to ensure that our credit exposures are appropriately collateralized. We seek to minimize exposures where there is a significant positive correlation between the creditworthiness of our counterparties and the market value of collateral we receive.
For loans and lending commitments, depending on the credit quality of the borrower and other characteristics of the transaction, we employ a variety of potential risk mitigants. Risk mitigants include collateral provisions, guarantees, covenants, structural seniority of the bank loan claims and, for certain lending commitments, provisions in the legal documentation that allow us to adjust loan amounts, pricing, structure and other terms as market conditions change. The type and structure of risk mitigants employed can significantly influence the degree of credit risk involved in a loan or lending commitment.
When we do not have sufficient visibility into a counterparty’s financial strength or when we believe a counterparty requires support from its parent, we may obtain third-party guarantees of the counterparty’s obligations. We may also mitigate our credit risk using credit derivatives or participation agreements.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 107

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Credit Exposures
As of December 2022, our aggregate credit exposure decreased compared with December 2021, primarily reflecting decreases in receivables from clearing organizations and cash deposits with central banks, partially offset by an increase in loans and lending commitments. The percentage of our credit exposures arising from non-investment-grade counterparties (based on our internally determined public rating agency equivalents) decreased compared with December 2021, primarily reflecting a decrease in non-investment-grade loans and lending commitments. Our credit exposures are described further below.
Cash and Cash Equivalents. Our credit exposure on cash and cash equivalents arises from our unrestricted cash, and includes both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposits. To mitigate the risk of credit loss, we place substantially all of our deposits with highly rated banks and central banks.
The table below presents our credit exposure from unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, and the concentration by industry, region and internally determined public rating agency equivalents.

----------------------------------------- -------------- ---- -------- -
 As of December

$ in millions 2022 2021
Cash and Cash Equivalents $224,889 $236,168

Industry
Financial Institutions 6 % 5 %
Sovereign 94 % 95 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Region
Americas 77 % 55 %
EMEA 19 % 36 %
Asia 4 % 9 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA 89 % 64 %
AA 5 % 24 %
A 6 % 11 %
BBB – 1 %
Total 100 % 100 %

The table above excludes cash segregated for regulatory and other purposes of $16.94 billion as of December 2022 and $24.87 billion as of December 2021.
OTC Derivatives. Our credit exposure on OTC derivatives arises primarily from our market-making activities. As a market maker, we enter into derivative transactions to provide liquidity to clients and to facilitate the transfer and hedging of their risks. We also enter into derivatives to manage market risk exposures. We manage our credit exposure on OTC derivatives using the credit risk process, measures, limits and risk mitigants described above.

We generally enter into OTC derivatives transactions under bilateral collateral arrangements that require the daily exchange of collateral. As credit risk is an essential component of fair value, we include a credit valuation adjustment (CVA) in the fair value of derivatives to reflect counterparty credit risk, as described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. CVA is a function of the present value of expected exposure, the probability of counterparty default and the assumed recovery upon default.
The table below presents our net credit exposure from OTC derivatives and the concentration by industry and region.

------------------------------------------ -------------- ---- -------- -
 As of December

$ in millions 2022 2021
OTC derivative assets $53,399 $58,637
Collateral (not netted under U.S. GAAP) (15,823) (17,245)
Net credit exposure $37,576 $41,392
Industry
Consumer & Retail 3 % 2 %
Diversified Industrials 8 % 10 %
Financial Institutions 20 % 15 %
Funds 19 % 13 %
Healthcare 1 % 1 %
Municipalities & Nonprofit 2 % 5 %
Natural Resources & Utilities 34 % 33 %
Sovereign 7 % 8 %
Technology, Media & Telecommunications 4 % 8 %
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles) 2 % 5 %
Total 100 % 100 %
Region
Americas 49 % 53 %
EMEA 43 % 37 %
Asia 8 % 10 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Our credit exposure (before any potential recoveries) to OTC derivative counterparties that defaulted during 2022 remained low, representing less than 2% of our total credit exposure from OTC derivatives.
In the table above:
•OTC derivative assets, included in the consolidated balance sheets, are reported on a net-by-counterparty basis (i.e., the net receivable for a given counterparty) when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement (counterparty netting) and are accounted for at fair value, net of cash collateral received under enforceable credit support agreements (cash collateral netting).
•Collateral represents cash collateral and the fair value of securities collateral, primarily U.S. and non-U.S. government and agency obligations, received under credit support agreements, that we consider when determining credit risk, but such collateral is not eligible for netting under U.S. GAAP.

--- ----------------------------
108 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents the distribution of our net credit exposure from OTC derivatives by tenor.

-------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------ -------- - --------- - ------
$ in millions Investment-Grade Non-Investment-Grade / Unrated Total
As of December 2022
Less than 1 year $ 23,112 $ 8,812 $ 31,924
1 – 5 years 26,627 8,355 34,982
Greater than 5 years 58,354 4,342 62,696
Total 108,093 21,509 129,602
Netting (83,531) (8,495) (92,026)
Net credit exposure $ 24,562 $ 13,014 $ 37,576
As of December 2021
Less than 1 year $ 27,668 $ 11,203 $ 38,871
1 – 5 years 21,746 9,515 31,261
Greater than 5 years 64,670 6,590 71,260
Total 114,084 27,308 141,392
Netting (89,244) (10,756) (100,000)
Net credit exposure $ 24,840 $ 16,552 $ 41,392

In the table above:
•Tenor is based on remaining contractual maturity.
•Netting includes counterparty netting across tenor categories and collateral that we consider when determining credit risk (including collateral that is not eligible for netting under U.S. GAAP). Counterparty netting within the same tenor category is included within such tenor category.
The tables below present the distribution of our net credit exposure from OTC derivatives by tenor and internally determined public rating agency equivalents.

-------------------- ---------------- ----- ------------------------------ ------- -------- - -------- ------ -------- ------ ------ - ------
 Investment-Grade
$ in millions AAA AA A BBB Total
As of December 2022
Less than 1 year $ 521 $ 2,113 $ 10,516 $ 9,962 $ 23,112
1 – 5 years 1,684 5,383 9,057 10,503 26,627
Greater than 5 years 5,594 16,063 21,060 15,637 58,354
Total 7,799 23,559 40,633 36,102 108,093
Netting (5,025) (20,582) (31,956) (25,968) (83,531)
Net credit exposure $ 2,774 $ 2,977 $ 8,677 $ 10,134 $ 24,562
As of December 2021
Less than 1 year $ 1,017 $ 4,926 $ 12,481 $ 9,244 $ 27,668
1 – 5 years 1,150 3,071 8,298 9,227 21,746
Greater than 5 years 13,777 5,421 23,867 21,605 64,670
Total 15,944 13,418 44,646 40,076 114,084
Netting (13,535) (9,501) (36,005) (30,203) (89,244)
Net credit exposure $ 2,409 $ 3,917 $ 8,641 $ 9,873 $ 24,840
 Non-Investment-Grade / Unrated
$ in millions BB or lower Unrated Total
As of December 2022
Less than 1 year $ 8,245 $ 567 $ 8,812
1 – 5 years 8,150 205 8,355
Greater than 5 years 4,232 110 4,342
Total 20,627 882 21,509
Netting (8,436) (59) (8,495)
Net credit exposure $ 12,191 $ 823 $ 13,014
As of December 2021
Less than 1 year $ 10,446 $ 757 $ 11,203
1 – 5 years 9,210 305 9,515
Greater than 5 years 6,320 270 6,590
Total 25,976 1,332 27,308
Netting (10,683) (73) (10,756)
Net credit exposure $ 15,293 $ 1,259 $ 16,552

Lending Activities. We manage our lending activities using the credit risk process, measures, limits and risk mitigants described above. Other lending positions, including secondary trading positions, are risk-managed as a component of market risk. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we changed the classification of our lending portfolio to better reflect the nature of the underlying collateral. Loans and lending commitments types in the table below include the addition of securities-based and other collateralized, as well as the removal of wealth management. This also resulted in reclassifications of certain loans and lending commitments in corporate and other to other collateralized. Prior periods have been conformed to the current presentation.
The table below presents our loans and lending commitments.

------------------------- ------ ------------------ ------ - ------- - -------
$ in millions Loans LendingCommitments Total
As of December 2022
Corporate $ 40,135 $ 139,718 $ 179,853
Commercial real estate 28,879 4,271 33,150
Residential real estate 23,035 3,192 26,227
Securities-based 16,671 508 17,179
Other collateralized 51,702 14,407 66,109
Consumer:
Installment 6,326 1,882 8,208
Credit cards 15,820 62,216 78,036
Other 2,261 944 3,205
Total $ 184,829 $ 227,138 $ 411,967
Allowance for loan losses $ (5,543) $ (774) $ (6,317)
As of December 2021
Corporate $ 37,643 $ 146,694 $ 184,337
Commercial real estate 29,000 6,736 35,736
Residential real estate 24,674 4,031 28,705
Securities-based 16,652 454 17,106
Other collateralized 38,263 17,253 55,516
Consumer:
Installment 3,672 9 3,681
Credit cards 8,212 35,932 44,144
Other 4,019 443 4,462
Total $ 162,135 $ 211,552 $ 373,687
Allowance for loan losses $ (3,573) $ (776) $ (4,349)

In the table above, lending commitments excluded $4.85 billion as of December 2022 and $4.14 billion as of December 2021 relating to issued letters of credit which are classified as guarantees in our consolidated financial statements. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about guarantees.
See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for information about net charge-offs on wholesale and consumer loans, as well as past due and nonaccrual loans accounted for at amortized cost.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 109

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Corporate. Corporate loans and lending commitments include term loans, revolving lines of credit, letter of credit facilities and bridge loans, and are principally used for operating and general corporate purposes, or in connection with acquisitions. Corporate loans are secured (typically by a senior lien on the assets of the borrower) or unsecured, depending on the loan purpose, the risk profile of the borrower and other factors.
The table below presents our credit exposure from corporate loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by industry, region, internally determined public rating agency equivalents and other credit metrics.

------------------------------------------ ------- ------------------ -------- - -------- -
$ in millions Loans LendingCommitments Total
As of December 2022
Corporate $40,135 $139,718 $179,853

Industry
Consumer & Retail 10 % 13 % 12 %
Diversified Industrials 18 % 18 % 18 %
Financial Institutions 7 % 8 % 8 %
Funds 3 % 4 % 4 %
Healthcare 10 % 12 % 12 %
Natural Resources & Utilities 9 % 18 % 16 %
Real Estate 11 % 5 % 7 %
Technology, Media & Telecommunications 26 % 20 % 21 %
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles) 6 % 2 % 2 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Region
Americas 57 % 77 % 73 %
EMEA 34 % 21 % 24 %
Asia 9 % 2 % 3 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA – 2 % 1 %
AA 1 % 5 % 4 %
A 5 % 21 % 18 %
BBB 19 % 38 % 34 %
BB or lower 75 % 34 % 43 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

As of December 2021
Corporate $37,643 $146,694 $184,337

Industry
Consumer & Retail 11 % 14 % 13 %
Diversified Industrials 17 % 17 % 17 %
Financial Institutions 7 % 7 % 7 %
Funds 2 % 3 % 3 %
Healthcare 10 % 10 % 10 %
Natural Resources & Utilities 13 % 17 % 16 %
Real Estate 10 % 5 % 6 %
Technology, Media & Telecommunications 24 % 25 % 25 %
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles) 6 % 2 % 3 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Region
Americas 52 % 76 % 71 %
EMEA 38 % 21 % 25 %
Asia 10 % 3 % 4 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA – 1 % 1 %
AA 1 % 5 % 4 %
A 6 % 17 % 14 %
BBB 15 % 37 % 33 %
BB or lower 78 % 40 % 48 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Commercial Real Estate. Commercial real estate includes originated loans and lending commitments that are directly or indirectly secured by hotels, retail stores, multifamily housing complexes and commercial and industrial properties. Commercial real estate also includes loans and lending commitments extended to clients who warehouse assets that are directly or indirectly backed by commercial real estate. In addition, commercial real estate includes loans purchased by us.
The table below presents our credit exposure from commercial real estate loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by region, internally determined public rating agency equivalents and other credit metrics.

----------------------------------------- ------- ------------------ ------ - ------- -
$ in millions Loans LendingCommitments Total
As of December 2022
Commercial Real Estate $28,879 $4,271 $33,150

Region
Americas 79 % 74 % 78 %
EMEA 16 % 17 % 16 %
Asia 5 % 9 % 6 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 18 % 27 % 19 %
Non-investment-grade 82 % 72 % 80 %
Unrated – 1 % 1 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

As of December 2021
Commercial Real Estate $29,000 $6,736 $35,736

Region
Americas 82 % 78 % 81 %
EMEA 13 % 10 % 13 %
Asia 5 % 12 % 6 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 22 % 20 % 21 %
Non-investment-grade 77 % 80 % 78 %
Unrated 1 % – 1 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

In the table above, credit exposure includes loans and lending commitments of $10.28 billion as of December 2022 and $11.65 billion as of December 2021 which are extended to clients who warehouse assets that are directly or indirectly backed by commercial real estate.
In addition, we also have credit exposure to commercial real estate loans held for securitization of $119 million as of December 2022 and $922 million as of December 2021. Such loans are included in trading assets in our consolidated balance sheets.

--- ----------------------------
110 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Residential Real Estate. Residential real estate loans and lending commitments are primarily extended to wealth management clients and to clients who warehouse assets that are directly or indirectly secured by residential real estate. In addition, residential real estate includes loans purchased by us.
The table below presents our credit exposure from residential real estate loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by region, internally determined public rating agency equivalents and other credit metrics.

----------------------------------------- ------- ------------------ ------ - ------- -
$ in millions Loans LendingCommitments Total
As of December 2022
Residential Real Estate $23,035 $3,192 $26,227

Region
Americas 96 % 93 % 95 %
EMEA 3 % 7 % 4 %
Asia 1 % – 1 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 16 % 8 % 15 %
Non-investment-grade 61 % 91 % 64 %
Other metrics 23 % 1 % 21 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

As of December 2021
Residential Real Estate $24,674 $4,031 $28,705

Region
Americas 96 % 82 % 94 %
EMEA 2 % 16 % 4 %
Asia 2 % 2 % 2 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 13 % 21 % 14 %
Non-investment-grade 65 % 70 % 66 %
Other metrics 21 % 9 % 19 %
Unrated 1 % – 1 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

In the table above:
•Credit exposure includes loans and lending commitments of $14.62 billion as of December 2022 and $16.89 billion as of December 2021 which are extended to clients who warehouse assets that are directly or indirectly secured by residential real estate.
•Other metrics category consists of loans where we use other key metrics to assess the borrower's credit quality, such as loan-to-value ratio, delinquency status, collateral value, expected cash flows and other risk factors.

In addition, we also have credit exposure to residential real estate loans held for securitization of $8.07 billion as of December 2022 and $11.57 billion as of December 2021. Such loans are included in trading assets in our consolidated balance sheets.
Securities-Based. Securities-based includes loans and lending commitments that are secured by stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds. These loans and commitments are primarily extended to our wealth management clients and used for purposes other than purchasing, carrying or trading margin stocks. Securities-based loans require borrowers to post additional collateral based on changes in the underlying collateral's fair value.
The table below presents our credit exposure from securities-based loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by region, internally determined public rating agency equivalents and other credit metrics.

----------------------------------------- ------- ------------------ ----- -- ------- -
$ in millions Loans LendingCommitments Total
As of December 2022
Securities-based $16,671 $508 $17,179

Region
Americas 83 % 98 % 83 %
EMEA 15 % 2 % 15 %
Asia 2 % – 2 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 77 % 18 % 76 %
Non-investment-grade 5 % 2 % 4 %
Other metrics 18 % 80 % 20 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

As of December 2021
Securities-based $16,652 $454 $17,106

Region
Americas 77 % 100 % 78 %
EMEA 16 % – 15 %
Asia 7 % – 7 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 83 % 46 % 82 %
Non-investment-grade 3 % – 3 %
Other metrics 14 % 54 % 15 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

In the table above, other metrics category consists of loans where we use other key metrics to assess the borrower's credit quality, such as collateral value, loan-to-value ratio and delinquency status.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 111

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Other Collateralized. Other collateralized includes loans and lending commitments that are backed by specific collateral (other than securities and real estate). Such loans and lending commitments are extended to clients who warehouse assets that are directly or indirectly secured by corporate loans, consumer loans and other assets. Other collateralized also includes loans and lending commitments to investment funds (managed by third parties) that are collateralized by capital commitments of the funds' investors or assets held by the fund, as well as other secured loans and lending commitments extended to our wealth management clients.
The table below presents our credit exposure from other collateralized loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by region, internally determined public rating agency equivalents and other credit metrics.

----------------------------------------- ------- ------------------ ------- - ------- -
$ in millions Loans LendingCommitments Total
As of December 2022
Other Collateralized $51,702 $14,407 $66,109

Region
Americas 86 % 93 % 87 %
EMEA 12 % 7 % 11 %
Asia 2 % – 2 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 64 % 66 % 65 %
Non-investment-grade 35 % 31 % 34 %
Other metrics 1 % – –
Unrated – 3 % 1 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

As of December 2021
Other Collateralized $38,263 $17,253 $55,516

Region
Americas 74 % 92 % 79 %
EMEA 23 % 7 % 18 %
Asia 3 % 1 % 3 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 58 % 69 % 62 %
Non-investment-grade 41 % 30 % 38 %
Other metrics 1 % – –
Unrated – 1 % –
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

In the table above, credit exposure included loans and lending commitments extended to clients who warehouse assets of $16.89 billion as of December 2022 and $13.73 billion as of December 2021.

Installment and Credit Cards. We originate unsecured installment loans (including point-of-sale loans that we began to originate through the GreenSky platform in the third quarter of 2022) and credit card loans (pursuant to revolving lines of credit) to consumers in the Americas. The credit card lines are cancellable by us and therefore do not result in credit exposure.
The tables below present our credit exposure from originated installment and credit card funded loans, and the concentration by the five most concentrated U.S. states.

------------------- ----------- -

$ in millions Installment
As of December 2022
Loans, gross $6,326

California 10 %
Texas 9 %
Florida 7 %
New York 6 %
Illinois 4 %
Other 64 %
Total 100 %

As of December 2021
Loans, gross $3,672

California 11 %
Texas 9 %
Florida 7 %
New York 7 %
Illinois 4 %
Other 62 %
Total 100 %

------------------- ------------ -

$ in millions Credit Cards
As of December 2022
Loans, gross $15,820

California 16 %
Texas 9 %
New York 8 %
Florida 8 %
Illinois 4 %
Other 55 %
Total 100 %

As of December 2021
Loans, gross $8,212

California 18 %
Texas 9 %
New York 8 %
Florida 8 %
New Jersey 4 %
Other 53 %
Total 100 %

In addition, we had credit exposure of $1.88 billion as of December 2022 and $9 million as of December 2021 related to our commitments to provide unsecured installment loans to consumers.
See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the credit quality indicators of installment and credit card loans.

--- ----------------------------
112 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Other. Other includes unsecured loans extended to wealth management clients and unsecured consumer and credit card loans purchased by us.
The table below presents our credit exposure from other loans and lending commitments, and the concentration by region, internally determined public rating agency equivalents and other credit metrics.

----------------------------------------- ------ ------------------ ----- -- ------ -
$ in millions Loans LendingCommitments Total
As of December 2022
Other $2,261 $944 $3,205
Region
Americas 89 % 99 % 92 %
EMEA 11 % 1 % 8 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 47 % 93 % 60 %
Non-investment-grade 26 % 7 % 21 %
Other metrics 27 % – 19 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %
As of December 2021
Other $4,019 $443 $4,462
Region
Americas 89 % 100 % 90 %
EMEA 11 % – 10 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %
Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
Investment-grade 24 % 78 % 29 %
Non-investment-grade 23 % 14 % 22 %
Other metrics 51 % – 46 %
Unrated 2 % 8 % 3 %
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

In the table above, other metrics primarily includes consumer and credit card loans purchased by us. Our risk assessment process for such loans includes reviewing certain key metrics, such as expected cash flows, delinquency status and other risk factors.
In addition, we also have credit exposure to other loans held for securitization of $1.76 billion as of December 2022 and $467 million as of December 2021. Such loans are included in trading assets in our consolidated balance sheets.
Credit Hedges. To mitigate the credit risk associated with our lending activities, we obtain credit protection on certain loans and lending commitments through credit default swaps, both single-name and index-based contracts, and through the issuance of credit-linked notes.

Securities Financing Transactions. We enter into securities financing transactions in order to, among other things, facilitate client activities, invest excess cash, acquire securities to cover short positions and finance certain activities. We bear credit risk related to resale agreements and securities borrowed only to the extent that cash advanced or the value of securities pledged or delivered to the counterparty exceeds the value of the collateral received. We also have credit exposure on repurchase agreements and securities loaned to the extent that the value of securities pledged or delivered to the counterparty for these transactions exceeds the amount of cash or collateral received. Securities collateral for these transactions primarily includes U.S. and non-U.S. government and agency obligations.
The table below presents our credit exposure from securities financing transactions and the concentration by industry, region and internally determined public rating agency equivalents.

------------------------------------------ -------------- ---- ------- -
 As of December

$ in millions 2022 2021
Securities Financing Transactions $34,762 $34,505

Industry
Financial Institutions 43 % 34 %
Funds 23 % 23 %
Municipalities & Nonprofit 5 % 5 %
Sovereign 28 % 35 %
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles) 1 % 3 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Region
Americas 47 % 36 %
EMEA 34 % 44 %
Asia 19 % 20 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA 20 % 19 %
AA 31 % 28 %
A 31 % 33 %
BBB 8 % 9 %
BB or lower 10 % 11 %
Total 100 % 100 %

The table above reflects both netting agreements and collateral that we consider when determining credit risk.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 113

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Other Credit Exposures. We are exposed to credit risk from our receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations and customers and counterparties. Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations primarily consist of initial margin placed with clearing organizations and receivables related to sales of securities which have traded, but not yet settled. These receivables generally have minimal credit risk due to the low probability of clearing organization default and the short-term nature of receivables related to securities settlements. Receivables from customers and counterparties generally consist of collateralized receivables related to customer securities transactions and generally have minimal credit risk due to both the value of the collateral received and the short-term nature of these receivables.
The table below presents our other credit exposures and the concentration by industry, region and internally determined public rating agency equivalents.

------------------------------------------ -------------- ---- ------- -
 As of December

$ in millions 2022 2021
Other Credit Exposures $48,916 $61,187

Industry
Financial Institutions 80 % 86 %
Funds 12 % 9 %
Other (including Special Purpose Vehicles) 8 % 5 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Region
Americas 41 % 50 %
EMEA 49 % 43 %
Asia 10 % 7 %
Total 100 % 100 %

Credit Quality (Credit Rating Equivalent)
AAA 7 % 4 %
AA 32 % 47 %
A 33 % 29 %
BBB 10 % 6 %
BB or lower 16 % 13 %
Unrated 2 % 1 %
Total 100 % 100 %

The table above reflects collateral that we consider when determining credit risk.
Selected Exposures
We have credit and market exposures, as described below, that have had heightened focus given recent events and broad market concerns. Credit exposure represents the potential for loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of a counterparty or borrower. Market exposure represents the potential for loss in value of our long and short positions due to changes in market prices.

Country Exposures. The Russian invasion of Ukraine continues to negatively affect the global economy and has resulted in significant disruptions in financial markets and increased macroeconomic uncertainty. Governments around the world have responded to Russia’s invasion by imposing economic sanctions and export controls on specific industry sectors, companies and individuals in Russia. Retaliatory restrictions against investors, non-Russian owned businesses and other sovereign states have been implemented by Russia. Businesses in the U.S. and globally continue to experience shortages in materials and increased costs for transportation, energy and raw materials due, in part, to the negative effects of the war on the global economy. The escalation or continuation of the war between Russia and Ukraine presents heightened risks relating to cyber attacks, limited ability to settle securities transactions, third-party and agent bank dependencies, supply chain disruptions, and inflation, as well as the potential for increased volatility in commodity, currency and other financial markets. Complying with economic sanctions and restrictions imposed by governments has resulted in increased operational risk. The extent and duration of the war, sanctions and resulting market disruptions, as well as the potential adverse consequences for our business, liquidity and results of operations, are difficult to predict.
Our senior management, risk committees and the Board receive regular briefings from our independent risk oversight and control functions, including our chief risk officer, on Russian and Ukrainian exposures, as well as other relevant risk metrics. We have significantly reduced our exposure to Russia and Ukraine and have curtailed our operations in Russia to those necessary to meet our legal and regulatory obligations. The overall direct financial impact to our net revenues for 2022 from Russian and Ukrainian counterparties, borrowers, issuers and related instruments was not material. We have established a firmwide working group to identify and assess the operational risk associated with complying with economic sanctions and restrictions as a result of this invasion. In addition, to mitigate the risk of increased cyber attacks, we liaise with government agencies in order to update our monitoring processes with the latest information.
Our total credit exposure to Russian or Ukrainian counterparties or borrowers and our total market exposure relating to Russian or Ukrainian issuers was not material as of December 2022.
In addition, economic and/or political uncertainties in Argentina, Ethiopia, Ghana, Lebanon, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Venezuela have led to concerns about their financial stability. Our credit exposure to counterparties or borrowers and our market exposure to issuers relating to each of these countries was not material as of December 2022.

--- ----------------------------
114 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

We have a comprehensive framework to monitor, measure and assess our country exposures and to determine our risk appetite. We determine the country of risk by the location of the counterparty, issuer’s assets, where they generate revenue, the country in which they are headquartered, the jurisdiction where a claim against them could be enforced, and/or the government whose policies affect their ability to repay their obligations. We monitor our credit exposure to a specific country both at the individual counterparty level, as well as at the aggregate country level. See “Stress Tests” for information about stress tests that are designed to estimate the direct and indirect impact of events involving the above countries.

Operational Risk Management
Overview
Operational risk is the risk of an adverse outcome resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events. Our exposure to operational risk arises from routine processing errors, as well as extraordinary incidents, such as major systems failures or legal and regulatory matters.
Potential types of loss events related to internal and external operational risk include:
•Execution, delivery and process management;
•Business disruption and system failures;
•Employment practices and workplace safety;
•Clients, products and business practices;
•Damage to physical assets;
•Internal fraud; and
•External fraud.
Operational Risk, which is independent of our revenue-producing units and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for developing and implementing a formalized framework for assessing, monitoring and managing operational risk with the goal of maintaining our exposure to operational risk at levels that are within our risk appetite.

Operational Risk Management Process
Our process for managing operational risk includes the critical components of our risk management framework described in the “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” including a comprehensive data collection process, as well as firmwide policies and procedures, for operational risk events.
We combine top-down and bottom-up approaches to manage and measure operational risk. From a top-down perspective, our senior management assesses firmwide and business-level operational risk profiles. From a bottom-up perspective, our first and second lines of defense are responsible for risk identification and risk management on a day-to-day basis, including escalating operational risks and risk events to senior management.
We maintain a comprehensive control framework designed to provide a well-controlled environment to minimize operational risks. The Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee is responsible for overseeing operational risk, and for ensuring operational resilience of our business.
Our operational risk management framework is designed to comply with the operational risk measurement rules under the Capital Framework and has evolved based on the changing needs of our businesses and regulatory guidance.
We have established policies that require all employees and consultants to report and escalate operational risk events. When operational risk events are identified, our policies require that the events be documented and analyzed to determine whether changes are required in our systems and/or processes to further mitigate the risk of future events.
We use operational risk management applications to capture, analyze, aggregate and report operational risk event data and key metrics. One of our key risk identification and control assessment tools is an operational risk and control self-assessment process, which is performed by our managers. This process consists of the identification and rating of operational risks, on a forward-looking basis, and the related controls. The results from this process are analyzed to evaluate operational risk exposures and identify businesses, activities or products with heightened levels of operational risk.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 115

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Risk Measurement
We measure our operational risk exposure using both statistical modeling and scenario analyses, which involve qualitative and quantitative assessments of internal and external operational risk event data and internal control factors for each of our businesses. Operational risk measurement also incorporates an assessment of business environment factors, including:
•Evaluations of the complexity of our business activities;
•The degree of automation in our processes;
•New activity information;
•The legal and regulatory environment; and
•Changes in the markets for our products and services, including the diversity and sophistication of our customers and counterparties.
The results from these scenario analyses are used to monitor changes in operational risk and to determine business lines that may have heightened exposure to operational risk. These analyses are used in the determination of the appropriate level of operational risk capital to hold. We also perform firmwide stress tests. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about firmwide stress tests.
Types of Operational Risks
Increased reliance on technology and third-party relationships has resulted in increased operational risks, such as information and cybersecurity risk, third-party risk and business resilience risk. We manage those risks as follows:
Information and Cybersecurity Risk. Information and cybersecurity risk is the risk of compromising the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our data and systems, leading to an adverse impact to us, our reputation, our clients and/or the broader financial system. We seek to minimize the occurrence and impact of unauthorized access, disruption or use of information and/or information systems. We deploy and operate preventive and detective controls and processes to mitigate emerging and evolving information security and cybersecurity threats, including monitoring our network for known vulnerabilities and signs of unauthorized attempts to access our data and systems. There is increased information risk through diversification of our data across external service providers, including use of a variety of cloud-provided or -hosted services and applications. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information about information and cybersecurity risk.

Third-Party Risk. Third-party risk, including vendor risk, is the risk of an adverse impact due to reliance on third parties performing services or activities on our behalf. These risks may include legal, regulatory, information security, reputational, operational or any other risks inherent in engaging a third party. We identify, manage and report key third-party risks and conduct due diligence across multiple risk domains, including information security and cybersecurity, resilience and additional supply chain dependencies. The Third-Party Risk Program monitors, reviews and reassesses third-party risks on an ongoing basis. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information about third-party risk.
Business Resilience Risk. Business resilience risk is the risk of disruption to our critical processes. We monitor threats and assess risks and seek to ensure our state of readiness in the event of a significant operational disruption to the normal operations of our critical functions or their dependencies, such as critical facilities, systems, third parties, data and/or personnel. Our resilience framework defines the fundamental principles for BCP and crisis management to ensure that critical functions can continue to operate in the event of a disruption. The business continuity program is comprehensive, consistent on a firmwide basis, and up-to-date, incorporating new information, including updated resilience capabilities as and when they become available. Our resilience assurance program encompasses testing of response and recovery strategies on a regular basis with the objective of minimizing and preventing significant operational disruptions. See “Business — Business Continuity and Information Security” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for further information about business continuity.

Model Risk Management
Overview
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions made based on model outputs that may be incorrect or used inappropriately. We rely on quantitative models across our business activities primarily to value certain financial assets and liabilities, to monitor and manage our risk, and to measure and monitor our regulatory capital.
Model Risk, which is independent of our revenue-producing units, model developers, model owners and model users, and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing our model risk through firmwide oversight across our global businesses, and provides periodic updates to senior management, risk committees and the Risk Committee of the Board.

--- ----------------------------
116 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Our model risk management framework is managed through a governance structure and risk management controls, which encompass standards designed to ensure we maintain a comprehensive model inventory, including risk assessment and classification, sound model development practices, independent review and model-specific usage controls. The Firmwide Model Risk Control Committee oversees our model risk management framework.
Model Review and Validation Process
Model Risk consists of quantitative professionals who perform an independent review, validation and approval of our models. This review includes an analysis of the model documentation, independent testing, an assessment of the appropriateness of the methodology used, and verification of compliance with model development and implementation standards.
We regularly refine and enhance our models to reflect changes in market or economic conditions and our business mix. All models are reviewed on an annual basis, and new models or significant changes to existing models and their assumptions are approved prior to implementation.
The model validation process incorporates a review of models and trade and risk parameters across a broad range of scenarios (including extreme conditions) in order to critically evaluate and verify:
•The model’s conceptual soundness, including the reasonableness of model assumptions, and suitability for intended use;
•The testing strategy utilized by the model developers to ensure that the models function as intended;
•The suitability of the calculation techniques incorporated in the model;
•The model’s accuracy in reflecting the characteristics of the related product and its significant risks;
•The model’s consistency with models for similar products; and
•The model’s sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions.
See “Critical Accounting Policies — Fair Value — Review of Valuation Models,” “Liquidity Risk Management,” “Market Risk Management,” “Credit Risk Management” and “Operational Risk Management” for further information about our use of models within these areas.

Other Risk Management
In addition to the areas of risks discussed above, we also manage other risks, including capital, climate, compliance and conflicts. These areas of risks are discussed below.

Capital Risk Management
Capital risk is the risk that our capital is insufficient to support our business activities under normal and stressed market conditions or we face capital reductions or RWA increases, including from new or revised rules or changes in interpretations of existing rules, and are therefore unable to meet our internal capital targets or external regulatory capital requirements. Capital adequacy is of critical importance to us. Accordingly, we have in place a comprehensive capital management policy that provides a framework, defines objectives and establishes guidelines to maintain an appropriate level and composition of capital in both business-as-usual and stressed conditions. Our capital management framework is designed to provide us with the information needed to identify and comprehensively manage risk, and develop and apply projected stress scenarios that capture idiosyncratic vulnerabilities with a goal of holding sufficient capital to remain adequately capitalized even after experiencing a severe stress event. See “Capital Management and Regulatory Capital” for further information about our capital management process.
We have established a comprehensive governance structure to manage and oversee our day-to-day capital management activities and to ensure compliance with capital rules and related policies. Our capital management activities are overseen by the Board and its committees. The Board is responsible for approving our annual capital plan and the Risk Committee of the Board approves our capital management policy, which details the risk committees and members of senior management who are responsible for the ongoing monitoring of our capital adequacy and evaluation of current and future regulatory capital requirements, the review of the results of our capital planning and stress tests processes, and the results of our capital models. In addition, our risk committees and senior management are responsible for the review of our contingency capital plan, key capital adequacy metrics, including regulatory capital ratios, and capital plan metrics, such as the payout ratio, as well as monitoring capital targets and potential breaches of capital requirements.
Our process for managing capital risk also includes independent review by Risk that, among other things, assesses regulatory capital policies and related interpretations, escalates certain interpretations to senior management and/or the appropriate risk committee, and performs calculation testing to corroborate alignment with applicable capital rules.
Climate Risk Management
We categorize climate risk into physical risk and transition risk. Physical risk is the risk that asset values may decline or operations may be disrupted as a result of changes in the climate, while transition risk is the risk that asset values may decline because of changes in climate policies or changes in the underlying economy due to decarbonization.

---------------------------- ---
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 117

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

As a global financial institution, climate-related risks manifest in different ways across our businesses and we have continued to make significant enhancements to our climate risk management framework, including steps to further integrate climate into our broader risk management processes. We have integrated oversight of climate-related risks into our risk management governance structure, from senior management to our Board and its committees, including the Risk and Public Responsibilities Committees. The Risk Committee of the Board oversees firmwide financial and nonfinancial risks, which include climate risk, and, as part of its oversight, receives updates on our risk management approach to climate risk, including our approaches towards scenario analysis and integration into existing risk management processes. The Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board assists the Board in its oversight of our firmwide sustainability strategy and sustainability issues affecting us, including with respect to climate change. As part of its oversight, the Public Responsibilities Committee receives periodic updates on our sustainability strategy, and also periodically reviews our governance and related policies and processes for sustainability and climate change-related risks. Senior management within Risk is responsible for the development of our climate risk program.
We have begun incorporating climate risk into our credit evaluation and underwriting processes for select industries. Climate risk factors are now evaluated as part of transaction due diligence for select loan commitments.
See “Business — Sustainability” in Part I, Item 1 and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for information about our sustainability initiatives, including in relation to climate transition.
Compliance Risk Management
Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to our reputation arising from our failure to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules and regulations, and our internal policies and procedures. Compliance risk is inherent in all activities through which we conduct our businesses. Our Compliance Risk Management Program, administered by Compliance, assesses our compliance, regulatory and reputational risk; monitors for compliance with new or amended laws, rules and regulations; designs and implements controls, policies, procedures and training; conducts independent testing; investigates, surveils and monitors for compliance risks and breaches; and leads our responses to regulatory examinations, audits and inquiries. We monitor and review business practices to assess whether they meet or exceed minimum regulatory and legal standards in all markets and jurisdictions in which we conduct business.

Conflicts Management
Conflicts of interest and our approach to dealing with them are fundamental to our client relationships, our reputation and our long-term success. The term “conflict of interest” does not have a universally accepted meaning, and conflicts can arise in many forms within a business or between businesses. The responsibility for identifying potential conflicts, as well as complying with our policies and procedures, is shared by all of our employees.
We have a multilayered approach to resolving conflicts and addressing reputational risk. Our senior management oversees policies related to conflicts resolution and, in conjunction with Conflicts Resolution, Legal and Compliance, and internal committees, formulates policies, standards and principles, and assists in making judgments regarding the appropriate resolution of particular conflicts. Resolving potential conflicts necessarily depends on the facts and circumstances of a particular situation and the application of experienced and informed judgment.
As a general matter, Conflicts Resolution reviews financing and advisory assignments in Global Banking & Markets and certain of our investing, lending and other activities. In addition, we have various transaction oversight committees, such as the Firmwide Capital, Commitments and Suitability Committees and other committees that also review new underwritings, loans, investments and structured products. These groups and committees work with internal and external counsel and Compliance to evaluate and address any actual or potential conflicts. The head of Conflicts Resolution reports to our chief legal officer, who reports to our chief executive officer.
We regularly assess our policies and procedures that address conflicts of interest in an effort to conduct our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations.
For further information about our risk management processes, see “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

--- ----------------------------
118 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[See Note 25]:
Note 25 Subsequent Events 188 Statistical Information (Unaudited) 190 Glossary 194 Defined Terms 194 Acronyms 198

[See Note 25]:
Note 25 Subsequent Events 188 Statistical Information (Unaudited) 190 Glossary 194 Defined Terms 194 Acronyms 198

[See Note 25]:
Note 25 Subsequent Events 188 Statistical Information (Unaudited) 190 Glossary 194 Defined Terms 194 Acronyms 198

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[See Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105  Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[See Note 8]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105  Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 25 Subsequent Events 188 Statistical Information (Unaudited) 190 Glossary 194 Defined Terms 194 Acronyms 198

[Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 25 Subsequent Events 188 Statistical Information (Unaudited) 190 Glossary 194 Defined Terms 194 Acronyms 198

[Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 25 Subsequent Events 188 Statistical Information (Unaudited) 190 Glossary 194 Defined Terms 194 Acronyms 198

[Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105  Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105  Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[Notes 4 and 5]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Notes 18 and 27]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Notes 14 and 19]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[see Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part II, Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s Board of Directors for inclusion in risk-based capital. These profits contributed approximately 7 basis points to the leverage ratio as of December 2022.
GSI is a registered swap dealer with the CFTC and a registered security-based swap dealer with the SEC. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, GSI was subject to and in compliance with applicable capital requirements for swap dealers and security-based swap dealers.
GSI is also subject to a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities issued to affiliates. This requirement is subject to a transitional period which began to phase in from January 2019 and became fully effective beginning in January 2022. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, GSI was in compliance with this requirement.
GSJCL, our Japanese broker-dealer, is regulated by Japan’s Financial Services Agency. GSJCL and certain other non-U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to capital requirements promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they operate. As of both December 2022 and December 2021, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital requirements.

Regulatory and Other Matters
Regulatory Matters
Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision worldwide. Regulations have been adopted or are being considered by regulators and policy makers worldwide. Given that many of the new and proposed rules are highly complex, the full impact of regulatory reform will not be known until the rules are implemented and market practices develop under the final regulations.
See “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for further information about the laws, rules and regulations and proposed laws, rules and regulations that apply to us and our operations.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 87

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Other Matters
Replacement of Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs), including LIBOR. On January 1, 2022, the publication of all EUR, CHF, JPY and GBP LIBOR (non-USD LIBOR) settings along with certain USD LIBOR settings ceased. The publication of the most commonly used USD LIBOR settings as representative rates will cease after June 2023. The FCA has allowed the publication and use of synthetic rates for certain GBP LIBOR settings in legacy GBP LIBOR-based derivative contracts through March 2024. The FCA has proposed to allow the publication and use of synthetic rates for certain USD LIBOR settings in legacy USD LIBOR-based derivative contracts through September 2024. The U.S. federal banking agencies’ guidance strongly encourages banking organizations to cease using USD LIBOR.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol (IBOR Protocol) has provided derivatives market participants with amended fallbacks for legacy and new derivative contracts to mitigate legal or economic uncertainty. Both counterparties have to adhere to the IBOR Protocol or engage in bilateral amendments for the terms to be effective for derivative contracts. ISDA has confirmed that the FCA’s formal announcement to cease both non-USD and USD LIBOR settings fixed the spread adjustment for all LIBOR rates and as a result fallbacks applied automatically for non-USD LIBOR settings following December 31, 2021 and will apply automatically for USD LIBOR settings following June 30, 2023. The Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act, that was enacted in March 2022, provides a statutory framework to replace USD LIBOR with a benchmark rate based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) for contracts governed by U.S. law that have no fallbacks or fallbacks that would require the use of a poll or LIBOR-based rate. In December 2022, the FRB adopted a final rule that implements the LIBOR Act, which will become effective on February 27, 2023. The final rule identifies different SOFR-based replacement rates for derivative contracts, for cash instruments such as floating-rate notes and preferred stock, for consumer contracts, for certain government-sponsored enterprise contracts and for certain student loan securitizations that lack a fallback to an alternative rate when USD LIBOR ceases to be published on June 30, 2023.
We facilitated an orderly transition from non-USD LIBORs to alternative risk-free reference rates and synthetic rates for us and our clients, and continue to make progress on our transition program as it relates to USD LIBOR.

Our risk exposure to USD LIBOR is primarily in connection with our derivative contracts and, to a lesser extent, our unsecured debt, preferred stock and loan portfolio. As of December 2022, the notional amount of our USD LIBOR-based derivative contracts was approximately $6 trillion, of which approximately $5 trillion will mature after June 2023 based on their contractual terms. Substantially all of such derivative contracts are with counterparties under bilateral agreements subject to the IBOR Protocol, or with central clearing counterparties or exchanges which have incorporated fallbacks consistent with the IBOR Protocol in their rulebooks and have announced that they plan to convert USD LIBOR contracts to alternative risk-free reference rates. Our unsecured benchmark debt and preferred stock with USD LIBOR exposure was approximately $29.0 billion as of December 2022, of which $26.4 billion will contractually mature after June 2023 or is perpetual and has no stated maturity date. Under the FRB’s final rule and the LIBOR Act, we will replace our USD LIBOR-based unsecured benchmark debt and preferred stock with term SOFR plus the statutorily prescribed tenor spread. This transition will take place following USD LIBOR cessation on June 30, 2023. In addition, our USD LIBOR-based loans were approximately $33.1 billion as of December 2022, of which approximately $30.5 billion will mature after June 2023 based on their contractual terms. A vast majority of such loans contain fallback provisions in the related loan agreements and we are actively engaging with our clients and syndicate partners to remediate the remaining loans agreements.
We have also issued debt and deposits linked to SOFR and Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) and executed SOFR- and SONIA-based derivative contracts to make markets and facilitate client activities. When appropriate, we continue to execute transactions in the market to reduce our USD LIBOR exposures arising from hedges to our fixed-rate debt issuances and replace them with alternative risk-free reference rate exposures.

-- ----------------------------
88 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the ordinary course of business, we enter into various types of off-balance sheet arrangements. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many different forms, including:
•Purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in special purpose entities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securitization vehicles;
•Holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other nonconsolidated vehicles;
•Entering into interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit derivatives, including total return swaps; and
•Providing guarantees, indemnifications, commitments, letters of credit and representations and warranties.
We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes, including securitizations. The securitization vehicles that purchase mortgages, corporate bonds and other types of financial assets are critical to the functioning of several significant investor markets, including the mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities markets, since they offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process.
We also enter into these arrangements to underwrite client securitization transactions; provide secondary market liquidity; make investments in performing and nonperforming debt, distressed loans, power-related assets, equity securities, real estate and other assets; and provide investors with credit-linked and asset-repackaged notes.

The table below presents where information about our various off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in this Form 10-K. In addition, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for information about our consolidation policies.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement Disclosure in Form 10-K
Variable interests and other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from variable interests in nonconsolidated variable interest entities (VIEs) See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Guarantees, and lending and other commitments See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives See “Risk Management — Credit Risk Management — Credit Exposures — OTC Derivatives” and Notes 4, 5, 7 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 89

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Risk Management
Risks are inherent in our businesses and include liquidity, market, credit, operational, model, legal, compliance, conduct, regulatory and reputational risks. For further information about our risk management processes, see “Overview and Structure of Risk Management,” and for information about our areas of risk, see “Liquidity Risk Management,” “Market Risk Management,” “Credit Risk Management,” “Operational Risk Management,” “Model Risk Management” and “Other Risk Management,” as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Overview and Structure of Risk Management
Overview
We believe that effective risk management is critical to our success. Accordingly, we have established an enterprise risk management framework that employs a comprehensive, integrated approach to risk management, and is designed to enable comprehensive risk management processes through which we identify, assess, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our activities. Our risk management structure is built around three core components: governance, processes and people.
Governance. Risk management governance starts with the Board, which both directly and through its committees, including its Risk Committee, oversees our risk management policies and practices implemented through the enterprise risk management framework. The Board is also responsible for the annual review and approval of our risk appetite statement. The risk appetite statement describes the levels and types of risk we are willing to accept or to avoid, in order to achieve our objectives included in our strategic business plan, while remaining in compliance with regulatory requirements. The Board reviews our strategic business plan and is ultimately responsible for overseeing and providing direction about our strategy and risk appetite.

The Board receives regular briefings on firmwide risks, including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk, operational risk, model risk and climate risk, from our independent risk oversight and control functions, including the chief risk officer, and on compliance risk and conduct risk from Compliance, on legal and regulatory enforcement matters from the chief legal officer, and on other matters impacting our reputation from the chair and vice-chairs of our Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee. The chief risk officer reports to our chief executive officer and to the Risk Committee of the Board. As part of the review of the firmwide risk portfolio, the chief risk officer regularly advises the Risk Committee of the Board of relevant risk metrics and material exposures, including risk limits and thresholds established in our risk appetite statement.
The implementation of our risk governance structure and core risk management processes is overseen by Enterprise Risk, which reports to our chief risk officer, and is responsible for ensuring that our enterprise risk management framework provides the Board, our risk committees and senior management with a consistent and integrated approach to managing our various risks in a manner consistent with our risk appetite.
Our revenue-producing units, as well as Treasury, Engineering, Human Capital Management, Operations, and Corporate and Workplace Solutions, are considered our first line of defense. They are accountable for the outcomes of our risk-generating activities, as well as for assessing and managing those risks within our risk appetite.
Our independent risk oversight and control functions are considered our second line of defense and provide independent assessment, oversight and challenge of the risks taken by our first line of defense, as well as lead and participate in risk committees. Independent risk oversight and control functions include Compliance, Conflicts Resolution, Controllers, Legal, Risk and Tax.
Internal Audit is considered our third line of defense, and our director of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee of the Board and administratively to our chief executive officer. Internal Audit includes professionals with a broad range of audit and industry experience, including risk management expertise. Internal Audit is responsible for independently assessing and validating the effectiveness of key controls, including those within the risk management framework, and providing timely reporting to the Audit Committee of the Board, senior management and regulators.

-- ----------------------------
90 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The three lines of defense structure promotes the accountability of first line risk takers, provides a framework for effective challenge by the second line and empowers independent review from the third line.
Processes. We maintain various processes that are critical components of our risk management framework, including (i) risk identification and control assessment, (ii) risk appetite, limit and threshold setting, (iii) risk metrics, reporting and monitoring, and (iv) risk decision-making.
•Risk Identification and Control Assessment. We believe the identification of our risks and related control assessment is a critical step in providing our Board and senior management transparency and insight into the range and materiality of our risks. We have a comprehensive data collection process, including firmwide policies and procedures that require all employees to report and escalate risk events. Our approach for risk identification and control assessment is comprehensive across all risk types, is dynamic and forward-looking to reflect and adapt to our changing risk profile and business environment, leverages subject matter expertise, and allows for prioritization of our most critical risks. This approach also encompasses our control assessment, led by our second line of defense, to review and challenge the control environment to ensure it supports our strategic business plan.
To effectively assess our risks, we maintain a daily discipline of marking substantially all of our inventory to current market levels. We carry our inventory at fair value, with changes in valuation reflected immediately in our risk management systems and in net revenues. We do so because we believe this discipline is one of the most effective tools for assessing and managing risk and that it provides transparent and realistic insight into our inventory exposures.
An important part of our risk management process is firmwide stress testing. It allows us to quantify our exposure to tail risks, highlight potential loss concentrations, undertake risk/reward analysis, and assess and mitigate our risk positions. Firmwide stress tests are performed on a regular basis and are designed to ensure a comprehensive analysis of our vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks combining financial and nonfinancial risks, including, but not limited to, credit, market, liquidity and funding, operational and compliance, strategic, systemic and emerging risks into a single combined scenario. We also perform ad hoc stress tests in anticipation of market events or conditions. Stress tests are also used to assess capital adequacy as part of our capital planning and stress testing process. See “Capital Management and Regulatory Capital — Capital Management” for further information.

•Risk Appetite, Limit and Threshold Setting. We apply a rigorous framework of limits and thresholds to control and monitor risk across transactions, products, businesses and markets. The Board, directly or indirectly through its Risk Committee, approves limits and thresholds included in our risk appetite statement at firmwide, business and product levels. In addition, the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee, through delegated authority from the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee, is responsible for approving our risk limits and thresholds policy, subject to the overall limits approved by the Risk Committee of the Board, and monitoring these limits.
The Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee is responsible for approving limits at firmwide, business and product levels. Certain limits may be set at levels that will require periodic adjustment, rather than at levels that reflect our maximum risk appetite. This fosters an ongoing dialogue about risk among our first and second lines of defense, committees and senior management, as well as rapid escalation of risk-related matters. Additionally, through delegated authority from the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee, Market Risk sets limits at certain product and desk levels, and Credit Risk sets limits for individual counterparties and their subsidiaries, industries and countries. Limits are reviewed regularly and amended on a permanent or temporary basis to reflect changing market conditions, business conditions or risk tolerance.
•Risk Metrics, Reporting and Monitoring. Effective risk reporting and risk decision-making depends on our ability to get the right information to the right people at the right time. As such, we focus on the rigor and effectiveness of our risk systems, with the objective of ensuring that our risk management technology systems provide us with complete, accurate and timely information. Our risk metrics, reporting and monitoring processes are designed to take into account information about both existing and emerging risks, thereby enabling our risk committees and senior management to perform their responsibilities with the appropriate level of insight into risk exposures. Furthermore, our limit and threshold breach processes provide means for timely escalation. We evaluate changes in our risk profile and our businesses, including changes in business mix or jurisdictions in which we operate, by monitoring risk factors at a firmwide level.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 91

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

•Risk Decision-Making. Our governance structure provides the protocol and responsibility for decision-making on risk management issues and ensures implementation of those decisions. We make extensive use of risk committees that meet regularly and serve as an important means to facilitate and foster ongoing discussions to manage and mitigate risks.
We maintain strong and proactive communication about risk and we have a culture of collaboration in decision-making among our first and second lines of defense, committees and senior management. While our first line of defense is responsible for management of their risk, we dedicate extensive resources to our second line of defense in order to ensure a strong oversight structure and an appropriate segregation of duties. We regularly reinforce our strong culture of escalation and accountability across all functions.
People. Even the best technology serves only as a tool for helping to make informed decisions in real time about the risks we are taking. Ultimately, effective risk management requires our people to interpret our risk data on an ongoing and timely basis and adjust risk positions accordingly. The experience of our professionals, and their understanding of the nuances and limitations of each risk measure, guides us in assessing exposures and maintaining them within prudent levels.
We reinforce a culture of effective risk management, consistent with our risk appetite, in our training and development programs, as well as in the way we evaluate performance, and recognize and reward our people. Our training and development programs, including certain sessions led by our most senior leaders, are focused on the importance of risk management, client relationships and reputational excellence. As part of our performance review process, we assess reputational excellence, including how an employee exercises good risk management and reputational judgment, and adheres to our code of conduct and compliance policies. Our review and reward processes are designed to communicate and reinforce to our professionals the link between behavior and how people are recognized, the need to focus on our clients and our reputation, and the need to always act in accordance with our highest standards.

Structure
Ultimate oversight of risk is the responsibility of our Board. The Board oversees risk both directly and through its committees, including its Risk Committee. We also have a series of committees with specific risk management mandates that have oversight or decision-making responsibilities for risk management activities. Committee membership generally consists of senior managers from both our first and second lines of defense. We have established procedures for these committees to ensure that appropriate information barriers are in place. Our primary risk committees, most of which also have additional sub-committees, councils or working groups, are described below. In addition to these committees, we have other risk committees that provide oversight for different businesses, activities, products, regions and entities. All of our committees have responsibility for considering the impact on our reputation of the transactions and activities that they oversee.
Membership of our risk committees is reviewed regularly and updated to reflect changes in the responsibilities of the committee members. Accordingly, the length of time that members serve on the respective committees varies as determined by the committee chairs and based on the responsibilities of the members.
The chart below presents an overview of our risk management governance structure.

-- ----------------------------
92 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Management Committee. The Management Committee oversees our global activities. It provides this oversight directly and through authority delegated to committees it has established. This committee consists of our most senior leaders, and is chaired by our chief executive officer. Most members of the Management Committee are also members of other committees. The following are the committees that are principally involved in firmwide risk management.
Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing all of our financial and nonfinancial risks. As part of such oversight, the committee is responsible for the ongoing review, approval and monitoring of our enterprise risk management framework, as well as our risk limits and thresholds policy, through delegated authority to the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. This committee also reviews new significant strategic business initiatives to determine whether they are consistent with our risk appetite and risk management capabilities. Additionally, the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee performs enhanced reviews of significant risk events, the top residual and emerging risks, and the overall risk and control environment in each of our business units in order to propose uplifts, identify elements that are common to all business units and analyze the consolidated residual risks that we face. This committee, which reports to the Management Committee, is co-chaired by our president and chief operating officer and our chief risk officer, who are appointed as chairs by our chief executive officer, and the vice-chair is our chief financial officer, who is appointed as vice-chair by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The following are the primary committees or councils that report to the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee (unless otherwise noted):
•Firmwide Risk Council. The Firmwide Risk Council is responsible for the ongoing monitoring of relevant financial risks and related risk limits at the firmwide, business and product levels. This council is co-chaired by our chief financial officer and our chief risk officer.
•Firmwide New Activity Committee. The Firmwide New Activity Committee is responsible for reviewing new activities and for establishing a process to identify and review previously approved activities that are significant and that have changed in complexity and/or structure or present different reputational and suitability concerns over time to consider whether these activities remain appropriate. This committee is co-chaired by our controller and chief accounting officer and our chief operating and strategy officer for Engineering, who are appointed as chairs by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee.

•Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee. The Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee is responsible for overseeing operational risk, and for ensuring our business and operational resilience. To assist the Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee in carrying out its mandate, other risk committees with dedicated oversight for technology-related risks, including cybersecurity matters, report into the Firmwide Operational Risk and Resilience Committee. This committee is co-chaired by our chief administrative officer for EMEA and our head of Operational Risk, who are appointed as chairs by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee.
•Firmwide Conduct Committee. The Firmwide Conduct Committee is responsible for the ongoing approval and monitoring of the frameworks and policies which govern our conduct risks. Conduct risk is the risk that our people fail to act in a manner consistent with our Business Principles and related core values, policies or codes, or applicable laws or regulations, thereby falling short in fulfilling their responsibilities to us, our clients, colleagues, other market participants or the broader community. This committee is chaired by our chief legal officer, who is appointed as chair by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee.
•Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. The Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee (through delegated authority from the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee) is responsible for the ongoing approval and monitoring of risk frameworks, policies and parameters related to our core risk management processes, as well as limits and thresholds, at firmwide, business and product levels. In addition, this committee is responsible for overseeing our financial risks and reviews the results of stress tests and scenario analyses. To assist the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee in carrying out its mandate, a number of other risk committees with dedicated oversight for stress testing, model risks, Volcker Rule compliance, as well as our investments or other capital commitments that may give rise to financial risk, report into the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee. This committee is chaired by our chief risk officer, who is appointed as chair by the chairs of the Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee. The Firmwide Capital Committee and Firmwide Commitments Committee report to the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee.
Firmwide Capital Committee. The Firmwide Capital Committee provides approval and oversight of debt-related transactions, including principal commitments of our capital. This committee aims to ensure that business, reputational and suitability standards for underwritings and capital commitments are maintained on a global basis. This committee is co-chaired by our head of Credit Risk and a co-head of our Global Financing Group, who are appointed as chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 93

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Firmwide Commitments Committee. The Firmwide Commitments Committee reviews our underwriting and distribution activities with respect to equity and equity-related product offerings, and sets and maintains policies and procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and business standards are maintained on a global basis. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, this committee periodically conducts general strategic reviews of sectors and products and establishes policies in connection with transaction practices. This committee is co-chaired by our chief equity underwriting officer for the Americas, a co-chairman of our Global Financial Institutions Group and a co-head of our Global Investment Grade Capital Markets and Risk Management Group in Global Banking & Markets, who are appointed as chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Risk Appetite Committee.
•Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee. The Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee is responsible for assessing reputational risks arising from transactions that have been identified as having potential heightened reputational risk pursuant to the criteria established by the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee and as determined by committee leadership. This committee is also responsible for overseeing client-related business standards and addressing client-related reputational risk. This committee is chaired by our president and chief operating officer, who is appointed as chair by our chief executive officer, and the vice-chairs are our chief legal officer and the head of Conflicts Resolution, who are appointed as vice-chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee. This committee periodically provides updates to, and receives guidance from, the Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board. The Firmwide Suitability Committee reports to the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee.
Firmwide Suitability Committee. The Firmwide Suitability Committee is responsible for setting standards and policies for product, transaction and client suitability and providing a forum for consistency across functions, regions and products on suitability assessments. This committee also reviews suitability matters escalated from other committees. This committee is co-chaired by our chief compliance officer, and the head of Net Zero Transition Solutions in Global Banking & Markets, who are appointed as chairs by the chair of the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee.

Firmwide Asset Liability Committee. The Firmwide Asset Liability Committee reviews and approves the strategic direction for our financial resources, including capital, liquidity, funding and balance sheet. This committee has oversight responsibility for asset liability management, including interest rate and currency risk, funds transfer pricing, capital allocation and incentives, and credit ratings. This committee makes recommendations as to any adjustments to asset liability management and financial resource allocation in light of current events, risks, exposures, and regulatory requirements and approves related policies. This committee is co-chaired by our chief financial officer and our global treasurer, who are appointed as chairs by our chief executive officer, and reports to the Management Committee.

Liquidity Risk Management
Overview
Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable to fund ourselves or meet our liquidity needs in the event of firm-specific, broader industry or market liquidity stress events. We have in place a comprehensive and conservative set of liquidity and funding policies. Our principal objective is to be able to fund ourselves and to enable our core businesses to continue to serve clients and generate revenues, even under adverse circumstances.
Treasury, which reports to our chief financial officer, has primary responsibility for developing, managing and executing our liquidity and funding strategy within our risk appetite.
Liquidity Risk, which is independent of our revenue-producing units and Treasury, and reports to our chief risk officer, has primary responsibility for identifying, monitoring and managing our liquidity risk through firmwide oversight across our global businesses and the establishment of stress testing and limits frameworks.

-- ----------------------------
94 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Liquidity Risk Management Principles
We manage liquidity risk according to three principles: (i) hold sufficient excess liquidity in the form of GCLA to cover outflows during a stressed period, (ii) maintain appropriate Asset-Liability Management and (iii) maintain a viable Contingency Funding Plan.
GCLA. GCLA is liquidity that we maintain to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows and collateral needs in a stressed environment. A primary liquidity principle is to pre-fund our estimated potential cash and collateral needs during a liquidity crisis and hold this liquidity in the form of unencumbered, highly liquid securities and cash. We believe that the securities held in our GCLA would be readily convertible to cash in a matter of days, through liquidation, by entering into repurchase agreements or from maturities of resale agreements, and that this cash would allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell other assets or depend on additional funding from credit-sensitive markets.
Our GCLA reflects the following principles:
•The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most critical to a company’s survival;
•Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Our businesses are diverse, and our liquidity needs are determined by many factors, including market movements, collateral requirements and client commitments, all of which can change dramatically in a difficult funding environment;
•During a liquidity crisis, credit-sensitive funding, including unsecured debt, certain deposits and some types of secured financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms (e.g., interest rates, collateral provisions and tenor) or availability of other types of secured financing may change and certain deposits may be withdrawn; and
•As a result of our policy to pre-fund liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold more unencumbered securities and have larger funding balances than our businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly liquid unencumbered securities, even though it increases our total assets and our funding costs.

We maintain our GCLA across Group Inc., Goldman Sachs Funding LLC (Funding IHC) and Group Inc.’s major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries, asset types and clearing agents to provide us with sufficient operating liquidity to ensure timely settlement in all major markets, even in a difficult funding environment. In addition to the GCLA, we maintain cash balances and securities in several of our other entities, primarily for use in specific currencies, entities or jurisdictions where we do not have immediate access to parent company liquidity.
Asset-Liability Management. Our liquidity risk management policies are designed to ensure we have a sufficient amount of financing, even when funding markets experience persistent stress. We manage the maturities and diversity of our funding across markets, products and counterparties, and seek to maintain a diversified funding profile with an appropriate tenor, taking into consideration the characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets.
Our approach to asset-liability management includes:
•Conservatively managing the overall characteristics of our funding book, with a focus on maintaining long-term, diversified sources of funding in excess of our current requirements. See “Balance Sheet and Funding Sources — Funding Sources” for further information;
•Actively managing and monitoring our asset base, with particular focus on the liquidity, holding period and ability to fund assets on a secured basis. We assess our funding requirements and our ability to liquidate assets in a stressed environment while appropriately managing risk. This enables us to determine the most appropriate funding products and tenors. See “Balance Sheet and Funding Sources — Balance Sheet Management” for further information about our balance sheet management process and “— Funding Sources — Secured Funding” for further information about asset classes that may be harder to fund on a secured basis; and
•Raising secured and unsecured financing that has a long tenor relative to the liquidity profile of our assets. This reduces the risk that our liabilities will come due in advance of our ability to generate liquidity from the sale of our assets. Because we maintain a highly liquid balance sheet, the holding period of certain of our assets may be materially shorter than their contractual maturity dates.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 95

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Our goal is to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquidity to fund our assets and meet our contractual and contingent obligations in normal times, as well as during periods of market stress. Through our dynamic balance sheet management process, we use actual and projected asset balances to determine secured and unsecured funding requirements. Funding plans are reviewed and approved by the Firmwide Asset Liability Committee. In addition, our independent risk oversight and control functions analyze, and the Firmwide Asset Liability Committee reviews, our consolidated total capital position (unsecured long-term borrowings plus total shareholders’ equity) so that we maintain a level of long-term funding that is sufficient to meet our long-term financing requirements. In a liquidity crisis, we would first use our GCLA in order to avoid reliance on asset sales (other than our GCLA). However, we recognize that orderly asset sales may be prudent or necessary in a severe or persistent liquidity crisis.
Subsidiary Funding Policies
The majority of our unsecured funding is raised by Group Inc., which provides the necessary funds to Funding IHC and other subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset financing, liquidity and capital requirements. In addition, Group Inc. provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding are enhanced control and greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our subsidiaries. Funding is also raised at the subsidiary level through a variety of products, including deposits, secured funding and unsecured borrowings.
Our intercompany funding policies assume that a subsidiary’s funds or securities are not freely available to its parent, Funding IHC or other subsidiaries unless (i) legally provided for and (ii) there are no additional regulatory, tax or other restrictions. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group Inc. or Funding IHC. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on its obligations. Accordingly, we assume that the capital provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to Group Inc. or other subsidiaries and any other financing provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to Group Inc. or Funding IHC until the maturity of such financing.

Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its regulated subsidiaries. For example, as of December 2022, Group Inc. had $39.33 billion of equity and subordinated indebtedness invested in GS&Co., its principal U.S. registered broker-dealer; $47.74 billion invested in GSI, a regulated U.K. broker-dealer; $2.62 billion invested in GSJCL, a regulated Japanese broker-dealer; $52.55 billion invested in GS Bank USA, a regulated New York State-chartered bank; and $4.25 billion invested in GSIB, a regulated U.K. bank. Group Inc. also provides financing, directly or indirectly, in the form of: $108.14 billion of unsubordinated loans (including secured loans of $52.93 billion) and $30.16 billion of collateral and cash deposits to these entities as of December 2022. In addition, as of December 2022, Group Inc. had significant amounts of capital invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.
Contingency Funding Plan. We maintain a contingency funding plan to provide a framework for analyzing and responding to a liquidity crisis situation or periods of market stress. Our contingency funding plan outlines a list of potential risk factors, key reports and metrics that are reviewed on an ongoing basis to assist in assessing the severity of, and managing through, a liquidity crisis and/or market dislocation. The contingency funding plan also describes in detail our potential responses if our assessments indicate that we have entered a liquidity crisis, which include pre-funding for what we estimate will be our potential cash and collateral needs, as well as utilizing secondary sources of liquidity. Mitigants and action items to address specific risks which may arise are also described and assigned to individuals responsible for execution.
The contingency funding plan identifies key groups of individuals and their responsibilities, which include fostering effective coordination, control and distribution of information, implementing liquidity maintenance activities and managing internal and external communication, all of which are critical in the management of a crisis or period of market stress.

-- ----------------------------
96 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Stress Tests
In order to determine the appropriate size of our GCLA, we model liquidity outflows over a range of scenarios and time horizons. One of our primary internal liquidity risk models, referred to as the Modeled Liquidity Outflow, quantifies our liquidity risks over a 30-day stress scenario. We also consider other factors, including, but not limited to, an assessment of our potential intraday liquidity needs through an additional internal liquidity risk model, referred to as the Intraday Liquidity Model, the results of our long-term stress testing models, our resolution liquidity models and other applicable regulatory requirements and a qualitative assessment of our condition, as well as the financial markets. The results of the Modeled Liquidity Outflow, the Intraday Liquidity Model, the long-term stress testing models and the resolution liquidity models are reported to senior management on a regular basis. We also perform firmwide stress tests. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about firmwide stress tests.
Modeled Liquidity Outflow. Our Modeled Liquidity Outflow is based on conducting multiple scenarios that include combinations of market-wide and firm-specific stress. These scenarios are characterized by the following qualitative elements:
•Severely challenged market environments, which include low consumer and corporate confidence, financial and political instability, and adverse changes in market values, including potential declines in equity markets and widening of credit spreads; and
•A firm-specific crisis potentially triggered by material losses, reputational damage, litigation and/or a ratings downgrade.
The following are key modeling elements of our Modeled Liquidity Outflow:
•Liquidity needs over a 30-day scenario;
•A two-notch downgrade of our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings;
•Changing conditions in funding markets, which limit our access to unsecured and secured funding;
•No support from additional government funding facilities. Although we have access to various central bank funding programs, we do not assume reliance on additional sources of funding in a liquidity crisis; and

•A combination of contractual outflows and contingent outflows arising from both our on- and off-balance sheet arrangements. Contractual outflows include, among other things, upcoming maturities of unsecured debt, term deposits and secured funding. Contingent outflows include, among other things, the withdrawal of customer credit balances in our prime brokerage business, increase in variation margin requirements due to adverse changes in the value of our exchange-traded and OTC-cleared derivatives, draws on unfunded commitments and withdrawals of deposits that have no contractual maturity. See notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information about contractual outflows, including Note 11 for collateralized financings, Note 13 for deposits, Note 14 for unsecured long-term borrowings and Note 15 for operating lease payments, and “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” for further information about our various types of off-balance sheet arrangements.
Intraday Liquidity Model. Our Intraday Liquidity Model measures our intraday liquidity needs using a scenario analysis characterized by the same qualitative elements as our Modeled Liquidity Outflow. The model assesses the risk of increased intraday liquidity requirements during a scenario where access to sources of intraday liquidity may become constrained.
Long-Term Stress Testing. We utilize longer-term stress tests to take a forward view on our liquidity position through prolonged stress periods in which we experience a severe liquidity stress and recover in an environment that continues to be challenging. We are focused on ensuring conservative asset-liability management to prepare for a prolonged period of potential stress, seeking to maintain a diversified funding profile with an appropriate tenor, taking into consideration the characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets.
Resolution Liquidity Models. In connection with our resolution planning efforts, we have established our Resolution Liquidity Adequacy and Positioning framework, which estimates liquidity needs of our major subsidiaries in a stressed environment. The liquidity needs are measured using our Modeled Liquidity Outflow assumptions and include certain additional inter-affiliate exposures. We have also established our Resolution Liquidity Execution Need framework, which measures the liquidity needs of our major subsidiaries to stabilize and wind down following a Group Inc. bankruptcy filing in accordance with our preferred resolution strategy.
In addition, we have established a triggers and alerts framework, which is designed to provide the Board with information needed to make an informed decision on whether and when to commence bankruptcy proceedings for Group Inc.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 97

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Limits
We use liquidity risk limits at various levels and across liquidity risk types to manage the size of our liquidity exposures. Limits are measured relative to acceptable levels of risk given our liquidity risk tolerance. See “Overview and Structure of Risk Management” for information about the limit approval process.
Limits are monitored by Treasury and Liquidity Risk. Liquidity Risk is responsible for identifying and escalating to senior management and/or the appropriate risk committee, on a timely basis, instances where limits have been exceeded.
GCLA and Unencumbered Metrics
GCLA. Based on the results of our internal liquidity risk models, described above, as well as our consideration of other factors, including, but not limited to, a qualitative assessment of our condition, as well as the financial markets, we believe our liquidity position as of both December 2022 and December 2021 was appropriate. We strictly limit our GCLA to a narrowly defined list of securities and cash because they are highly liquid, even in a difficult funding environment. We do not include other potential sources of excess liquidity in our GCLA, such as less liquid unencumbered securities or committed credit facilities.
The table below presents information about our GCLA.

-------------------------------- --------------- ------- ---------- ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- - -------
 Average for the

 Three Months Year Ended
 Ended December December
$ in millions 2022 2021 2022 2021
Denomination
U.S. dollar $ 312,414 $ 230,720 $ 281,427 $ 217,797
Non-U.S. dollar 96,404 122,401 116,655 116,723
Total $ 408,818 $ 353,121 $ 398,082 $ 334,520

Asset Class
Overnight cash deposits $ 217,141 $ 188,223 $ 228,203 $ 173,000
U.S. government obligations 149,519 107,898 126,349 108,260
U.S. agency obligations 12,789 13,154 11,007 10,183
Non-U.S. government obligations 29,369 43,846 32,523 43,077
Total $ 408,818 $ 353,121 $ 398,082 $ 334,520

Entity Type
Group Inc. and Funding IHC $ 69,386 $ 54,489 $ 64,579 $ 53,205
Major broker-dealer subsidiaries 109,502 107,279 113,887 104,326
Major bank subsidiaries 229,930 191,353 219,616 176,989
Total $ 408,818 $ 353,121 $ 398,082 $ 334,520

In the table above:
•The U.S. dollar-denominated GCLA consists of (i) unencumbered U.S. government and agency obligations (including highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage-backed obligations), all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal Reserve open market operations and (ii) certain overnight U.S. dollar cash deposits.
•The non-U.S. dollar-denominated GCLA consists of non-U.S. government obligations (only unencumbered German, French, Japanese and U.K. government obligations) and certain overnight cash deposits in highly liquid currencies.

We maintain our GCLA to enable us to meet current and potential liquidity requirements of our parent company, Group Inc., and its subsidiaries. Our Modeled Liquidity Outflow and Intraday Liquidity Model incorporate a requirement for Group Inc., as well as a standalone requirement for each of our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries. Funding IHC is required to provide the necessary liquidity to Group Inc. during the ordinary course of business, and is also obligated to provide capital and liquidity support to major subsidiaries in the event of our material financial distress or failure. Liquidity held directly in each of our major broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries is intended for use only by that subsidiary to meet its liquidity requirements and is assumed not to be available to Group Inc. or Funding IHC unless (i) legally provided for and (ii) there are no additional regulatory, tax or other restrictions. In addition, the Modeled Liquidity Outflow and Intraday Liquidity Model also incorporate a broader assessment of standalone liquidity requirements for other subsidiaries and we hold a portion of our GCLA directly at Group Inc. or Funding IHC to support such requirements.
Other Unencumbered Assets. In addition to our GCLA, we have a significant amount of other unencumbered cash and financial instruments, including other government obligations, high-grade money market securities, corporate obligations, marginable equities, loans and cash deposits not included in our GCLA. The fair value of our unencumbered assets averaged $273.49 billion for the three months ended December 2022, $271.65 billion for the three months ended December 2021, $275.69 billion for the year ended December 2022 and $249.32 billion for the year ended December 2021. We do not consider these assets liquid enough to be eligible for our GCLA.
Liquidity Regulatory Framework
As a BHC, we are subject to a minimum Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) under the LCR rule approved by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies. The LCR rule requires organizations to maintain an adequate ratio of eligible high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) to expected net cash outflows under an acute, short-term liquidity stress scenario. Eligible HQLA excludes HQLA held by subsidiaries that is in excess of their minimum requirement and is subject to transfer restrictions. We are required to maintain a minimum LCR of 100%. We expect that fluctuations in client activity, business mix and the market environment will impact our LCR.
The table below presents information about our average daily LCR.

----------------- --------------------------------- --------- -------- - ------- - - -------
 Average for theThree Months Ended
 December September December
$ in millions 2022 2022 2021
Total HQLA $ 401,836 $ 407,969 $ 342,047
Eligible HQLA $ 291,118 $ 279,121 $ 248,570
Net cash outflows $ 226,532 $ 224,408 $ 203,623
LCR 129 % 124 % 122 %

-- ----------------------------
98 Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

As a BHC, we are subject to a net stable funding ratio (NSFR) requirement established by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies, which requires large U.S. banking organizations to ensure they have access to stable funding over a one-year time horizon. The rule also requires disclosure of our quarterly average daily NSFR on a semi-annual basis and a description of the banking organization’s stable funding sources. We will begin doing so in August 2023. Our NSFR as of December 2022 exceeded the minimum requirement.
The following provides information about our subsidiary liquidity regulatory requirements:
•GS Bank USA. GS Bank USA is subject to a minimum LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies. As of December 2022, GS Bank USA’s LCR exceeded the minimum requirement. The NSFR requirement described above also applies to GS Bank USA. As of December 2022, GS Bank USA’s NSFR exceeded the minimum requirement.
•GSI and GSIB. GSI and GSIB are subject to a minimum LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the U.K. regulatory authorities. GSI’s and GSIB’s average monthly LCR for the trailing twelve-month period ended December 2022 exceeded the minimum requirement. GSI and GSIB are subject to the applicable NSFR requirement in the U.K. As of December 2022, both GSI’s and GSIB’s NSFR exceeded the minimum requirement.
•GSBE. GSBE is subject to a minimum LCR of 100% under the LCR rule approved by the European Parliament and Council. GSBE’s average monthly LCR for the trailing twelve-month period ended December 2022 exceeded the minimum requirement. GSBE is subject to the applicable NSFR requirement in the E.U. As of December 2022, GSBE’s NSFR exceeded the minimum requirement.
•Other Subsidiaries. We monitor local regulatory liquidity requirements of our subsidiaries to ensure compliance. For many of our subsidiaries, these requirements either have changed or are likely to change in the future due to the implementation of the Basel Committee’s framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring, as well as other regulatory developments.
The implementation of these rules and any amendments adopted by the regulatory authorities could impact our liquidity and funding requirements and practices in the future.

Credit Ratings
We rely on the short- and long-term debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our day-to-day operations and the cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are also important when we are competing in certain markets, such as OTC derivatives, and when we seek to engage in longer-term transactions. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for information about the risks associated with a reduction in our credit ratings.
The table below presents the unsecured credit ratings and outlook of Group Inc.

----------------- ------------------- ------ ------- ------ ------
 As of December 2022
 DBRS Fitch Moody’s R&I S&P
Short-term debt R-1 (middle) F1 P-1 a-1 A-2
Long-term debt A (high) A A2 A BBB+
Subordinated debt A BBB+ Baa2 A- BBB
Trust preferred A BBB- Baa3 N/A BB+
Preferred stock BBB (high) BBB- Ba1 N/A BB+
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable Stable Stable

In the table above:
•The ratings and outlook are by DBRS, Inc. (DBRS), Fitch, Inc. (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s), Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P).
•The ratings for trust preferred relate to the guaranteed preferred beneficial interests issued by Goldman Sachs Capital I.
•The DBRS, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P ratings for preferred stock include the APEX issued by Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III.

---------------------------- --
Goldman Sachs 2022 Form 10-K 99

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Management’s Discussion and Analysis

The table below presents the unsecured credit ratings and outlook of GS Bank USA, GSIB, GSBE, GS&Co. and GSI.

------------------------ ------------------- ------- ------
 As of December 2022
 Fitch Moody’s S&P
GS Bank USA
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Short-term bank deposits F1+ P-1 N/A
Long-term bank deposits AA- A1 N/A
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable
GSIB
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Short-term bank deposits F1 P-1 N/A
Long-term bank deposits A+ A1 N/A
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable
GSBE
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Short-term bank deposits N/A P-1 N/A
Long-term bank deposits N/A A1 N/A
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable
GS&Co.
Short-term debt F1 N/A A-1
Long-term debt A+ N/A A+
Ratings outlook Stable N/A Stable
GSI
Short-term debt F1 P-1 A-1
Long-term debt A+ A1 A+
Ratings outlook Stable Stable Stable

We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating agencies’ assessment of:
•Our liquidity, market, credit and operational risk management practices;
•Our level and variability of earnings;
•Our capital base;
•Our franchise, reputation and management;
•Our corporate governance; and
•The external operating and economic environment, including, in some cases, the assumed level of government support or other systemic considerations, such as potential resolution.
Certain of our derivatives have been transacted under bilateral agreements with counterparties who may require us to post collateral or terminate the transactions based on changes in our credit ratings. We manage our GCLA to ensure we would, among other potential requirements, be able to make the additional collateral or termination payments that may be required in the event of a two-notch reduction in our long-term credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to them.
See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about derivatives with credit-related contingent features and the additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under bilateral agreements that could have been called by counterparties in the event of a one- or two-notch downgrade in our credit ratings.

Cash Flows
As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets. Consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the liquidity and asset-liability management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may, however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and strategic initiatives in our businesses.
Year Ended December 2022. Our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $19.21 billion to $241.83 billion at the end of 2022, primarily due to net cash used for investing activities, partially offset by net cash provided by financing activities. The net cash used for investing activities primarily reflected purchases of investments (primarily U.S. government obligations accounted for as held-to-maturity) and an increase in net lending activities (reflecting increases in other collateralized and consumer loans). The net cash provided by financing activities primarily reflected cash inflows from net issuances of unsecured long-term borrowings and deposits (reflecting increases in transaction banking and private bank and consumer deposits, partially offset by a decrease in other deposits). The net cash provided by operating activities primarily reflected cash inflows from trading assets and liabilities, customer and other receivables and payables, net (reflecting both a decrease in customer and other receivables and an increase in customer and other payables), net earnings and loans held for sale, net, partially offset by cash outflows from collateralized transactions (reflecting both a decrease in collateralized financings and an increase in collateralized agreements). The decrease in cash and cash equivalents as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening during the year. Such amount was $11.56 billion for 2022 ($3.42 billion for the three months ended March 2022, $10.34 billion for the six months ended June 2022 and $18.17 billion for the nine months ended September 2022).
Year Ended December 2021. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $105.19 billion to $261.04 billion at the end of 2021, primarily due to net cash provided by financing activities, partially offset by net cash used for investing activities. The net cash provided by financing activities primarily reflected an increase in net deposits (reflecting increases across channels) and net issuances of unsecured long-term borrowings. The net cash used for investing activities primarily reflected purchases of investments and an increase in net lending activities, partially offset by sales and paydowns of investments.
For an analysis of cash flows for the year ended December 2020, see Part II, Item 7 "]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...
