================================================================================
CIK: 0001821825
Company Name: Organon & Co
Filing Date: 2023-02-27
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 13:31:35
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, which is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

Organon & Co. ("Organon" or the "Company") is a global health care company with a focus on improving the health of women throughout their lives. Organon develops and delivers innovative health solutions through a portfolio of prescription therapies within women's health, biosimilars and established brands (the "Organon Products"). Organon has a portfolio of more than 60 medicines and products across a range of therapeutic areas. The Company sells these products through various channels including drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. The Company operates six manufacturing facilities, which are located in Belgium, Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Unless otherwise indicated, trademarks appearing in italics throughout this document are trademarks of, or are used under license by, the Organon group of companies.

Separation from Merck

On June 2, 2021, Organon and Merck & Co. ("Merck") entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement (the "Separation and Distribution Agreement"). Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Merck agreed to spin off the Organon Products into Organon, a new, publicly traded company (the "Separation"). The Separation from Merck was completed on June 2, 2021, in which Organon's Common Stock was distributed to all holders of outstanding shares of Merck Common Stock as of the close of business on May 17, 2021 (the "Record Date"). For each share of Merck Common Stock held, such holder received one tenth of one share of Common Stock, and holders received cash in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock they otherwise would have been entitled to receive in connection with the Distribution. As a result, Organon became a standalone publicly traded company and on June 3, 2021 regular-way trading of the Common Stock commenced on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "OGN." Until the Separation on June 2, 2021, Organon's historical combined financial statements were prepared on a standalone basis and were derived from Merck's consolidated financial statements and accounting records.

For the period subsequent to June 2, 2021, as a standalone publicly traded company, Organon presents its financial statements on a consolidated basis. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

The Separation was completed pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements with Merck related to the Separation, including, but not limited to, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and a transition services agreement. See Part II, Item 8. Note 1 "Background and Nature of Operations" and Note 18 "Third-Party Arrangements and Related Party Disclosures" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional details.

-51-

Table of Contents
Key Trends Affecting Our Results of Operations

•Generic Competition: The majority of our established brands products are beyond market exclusivity. However, these products continue to represent a valuable opportunity arising from long-term sustainable revenue streams and well-established supply chains that together generate significant operating profit relative to low promotional and development expenses.
•Historical Shift Towards Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptives: Daily contraceptive pills are by far the largest contraception market segment, with almost half of all women choosing a hormonal contraceptive choosing this particular method. However, the Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptives ("LARC") market segment, which includes Nexplanon, has experienced significant growth in the decade from 2010 through to 2019, driven by a significant shift away from daily oral contraception to LARC. This was driven by payors, providers and patients looking for options beyond commonly used daily contraceptive pills. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected the LARC segment during 2021 and 2020 due to clinic closures and the postponement of non-essential medical procedures during country lockdowns. The LARC segment growth did begin to rebound in 2022 during months when clinic restrictions were removed. The LARC market is expected to continue to be an important and large segment of the overall contraception market as payors, providers and patients consider the benefits of long acting and highly effective options including Nexplanon.
•Increased Access to Fertility Solutions: We believe governments and payors are implementing favorable policies across major markets that, in turn, drive growth in the market for women's health therapies. For example, in the United States, there has been an increase in fertility insurance mandates and employer coverage, albeit subject to certain exemptions.
•Growing Acceptance of Biosimilars: Biologics continue to experience strong growth trends. Given the high cost of many of these biologics treatments, biosimilars are a more affordable alternative and represent a significant opportunity for patients, providers, and payors once a biologics product loses patent protection. Moreover, a significant number of biologics are expected to lose exclusivity over the next decade, representing a large opportunity for more biosimilar approvals.
•Increased Competitive Pressures: The markets in which we conduct our business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. Our competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers.

Recent Developments

Business Development

Claria Medical, Inc. ("Claria")

In January 2023, the Company made a strategic investment in Claria, a privately-held company developing an investigational medical device being studied for use during minimally invasive laparoscopic hysterectomy. Under the terms of the agreement, Organon paid $8 million upfront and has the option to acquire Claria for pre-defined terms at a later date. The upfront payment will be expensed as Acquired in-process research and development and milestones in our statement of income in the first quarter of 2023.

Cirqle Biomedical ("Cirqle")

In July 2022, the Company entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Cirqle for a novel investigational non-hormonal, on-demand contraceptive candidate. Under the terms of the agreement, Cirqle is responsible for conducting preclinical studies according to the mutually agreed research plan. Organon obtained exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize the asset.

Under the terms of the research collaboration and license agreement, Organon recorded a $10 million upfront payment during 2022 as Acquired in-process research and development and milestones. Cirqle is eligible to receive potential regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to $360 million and tiered royalties based on net sales. The remaining potential milestone payments will be recognized by Organon when achievement of the contractual milestones is probable.

-52-

Table of Contents
Shanghai Henlius Biotech, Inc. ("Henlius")

In June 2022, Organon and Henlius, a global biopharmaceutical company, entered into a definitive agreement whereby Organon is licensing commercialization rights for biosimilar candidates HLX11, referencing Perjeta, used for the treatment of certain patients with HER2+ breast cancer in combinations with trastuzumab and chemotherapy and HLX14, referencing Prolia/Xgeva, used for the treatment of certain patients with osteoporosis with high risk of fracture and for the prevention of skeletal-related events in patients with multiple myeloma and in patients with bone metastasis from solid tumors. Organon obtained exclusive global commercialization rights except for China; including Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. The agreement includes an option to negotiate an exclusive license for global commercialization rights for biosimilar candidate HLX13, referencing Yervoy used for the treatment of certain patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma, as adjuvant treatment of certain patients with cutaneous melanoma, certain patients with renal cell carcinoma, colorectal cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, non-small cell lung cancer, malignant pleural mesothelioma and esophageal cancer.

Under the terms of the license agreement, Organon paid a $73 million upfront payment during 2022, of which $3 million was reflected in Other current assets and the remainder was recognized as Acquired in-process research and development and milestones. Henlius is eligible to receive potential developmental, regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to $468 million. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company paid an additional $27 million related to certain development milestones which were recognized as Acquired in-process research and development and milestones. The remaining potential milestone payments will be recognized by Organon when achievement of the contractual milestones is probable. Henlius will be responsible for development and, if approved, will supply the products to Organon.

Daré Bioscience, Inc. ("Daré")

In March 2022, Organon and Daré, a leader in women's health innovation, entered into an agreement whereby Organon licensed the global commercial rights to Xaciato. Xaciato is an FDA-approved medication for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis ("BV") in females 12 years of age and older. Xaciato received both Qualified Infectious Disease Product ("QIDP") and Fast Track designations from the FDA for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis.

Under the terms of the license agreement, Organon paid a $10 million upfront payment during 2022. Daré is eligible to receive potential regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to $182.5 million and tiered double-digit royalties based on net sales. Xaciato is expected to be available commercially in the U.S. in the first half of 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2022 management determined that the first commercial milestone was deemed probable of occurring, and recognized an intangible asset of $12.5 million reflecting the $10 million upfront payment and $2.5 million commercial milestone. The intangible asset will be amortized over its useful life of 12 years. The remaining potential milestone payments will be recognized by Organon when achievement of the contractual milestones is probable.

Bayer AG

In February 2022, Organon acquired the product rights and related inventory from Bayer AG to Marvelon and Mercilon, combined oral hormonal daily contraceptive pills, in China, including Hong Kong and Macau, and entered into an agreement to acquire the rights to these products in Vietnam. Marvelon and Mercilon are already owned, manufactured, and marketed by Organon as prescription oral contraceptives in 20 other markets. The transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition. In 2022, Organon paid $95 million to acquire the product rights and inventory in China and Vietnam. This resulted in Organon recognizing an intangible asset of $72 million in total related to the product rights with the remainder of the consideration recorded to Inventories for the fair value of acquired inventory during 2022. The intangible assets related to currently marketed products will be amortized over their estimated useful lives of 10 years.

COVID-19 Update

Organon remains focused on protecting the safety of its employees and supporting Organon's communities in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19-related disruptions, including patients' inability to access health care providers, prioritization of COVID-19 patients, as well as social distancing measures have negatively affected our results during 2021 and 2022.

Our product portfolio is comprised of physician prescribed products, mainly in established brands, which have been affected by social distancing measures and fewer medical visits. Additionally, our portfolio in women's health includes products that are physician administered, which have been affected by reduced access to physicians and health care centers. These impacts, as well as the prioritization of COVID-19 patients at health care providers, resulted in reduced administration of certain products within established brands particularly for respiratory and cardiovascular products and women's health products such as Nexplanon, as well as our fertility brands. During 2022, our business was impacted by lockdowns in selective cities across

-53-

Table of Contents
China, which have slowed down with recent policies in China to ease the zero COVID strategy.

We believe that global health systems and patients continue to adapt to the evolving impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to the significant uncertainty that exists relative to the duration and overall impact of the COVID-19 pandemic resulting from resurgences in COVID-19 infections or new strains of the virus, our future operating performance, particularly in the short-term, may be subject to volatility.

Operating Results

Sales Overview

--------------- ----------------------- -------- ----- ----------------------------------- ----- ------------- ----- ----------------------------------- - ----- --- - --- - --- - --- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
United States $ 1,437 $ 1,383 $ 1,408 4 % 4 % (2) % (2) %
International 4,737 4,921 5,124 (4) 4 (4) (8)
Total $ 6,174 $ 6,304 $ 6,532 (2) % 4 % (3) % (6) %

U.S. plus international may not equal total due to rounding.

Worldwide sales were $6.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of 2% compared with 2021. Worldwide sales were negatively impacted by approximately 6%, or $383 million, due to unfavorable foreign exchange. Excluding foreign exchange, sales increases primarily reflect strong performance of Nexplanon due to favorable pricing and demand uptake in the United States as well as volume growth across Brazil, Latin America and the institutional business in Africa and strong volume growth for products within the established brands business, particularly for respiratory products Nasonex and Singulair primarily in Japan and China. Worldwide sales also reflected strong performance in biosimilar products mainly in the United States, resulting from the continued uptake of Renflexis in the United States and the strong performance of cardiovascular products, primarily Atozet, due to increased demand in France and Spain. This performance was partially offset by declines due to the generic competition for women's health product NuvaRing and the authorized generic etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring in the United States and unfavorable discount rates and lower volume growth in the United States related to Dulera.

The loss of exclusivity ("LOE") negatively impacted sales by approximately $30 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, based on the decrease in volume period over period, mainly impacting NuvaRing in the United States. Volume-based procurement ("VBP") in China had a $20 million negative impact on sales during the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Organon expects VBP to impact the Company's established brands product portfolio for the next several quarters.

Organon's operations include a portfolio of products. Highlights of the sales of Organon's products for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are provided below. See Note 17 "Product and Geographic Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on sales of our products.

-54-

Table of Contents
Women's Health

--------------------------- ----------------------- -------- --- ----------------------------------- --- ------------- --- ----------------------------------- - --- --- - ---- - ---- - -- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Nexplanon/Implanon NXT $ 834 $ 769 $ 680 8 % 11 % 13 % 12 %
NuvaRing 173 191 236 (9) (6) (19) (21)
Marvelon/Mercilon 110 98 95 12 20 3 2
Follistim AQ 229 237 193 (3) — 23 19
Ganirelix Acetate Injection 123 111 81 11 18 37 32

Contraception

Worldwide sales of Nexplanon, a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant, increased 8% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to the impact of favorable pricing and demand uptake in the United States, the favorable impact from the timing of tenders in Brazil and Latin America and volume growth from the institutional business in Africa.

Worldwide sales of NuvaRing, a vaginal contraceptive product, declined 9% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, due to ongoing generic competition in the United States. We expect a continued decline in NuvaRing sales as a result of generic competition. In addition to sales of branded NuvaRing, we have an agreement with a generic manufacturer that authorizes the sale of a generic etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, we are reimbursed on a cost-plus basis by the generic manufacturer for supplying finished goods and receive a share of the net profits recorded by the generic manufacturer. Under the terms of the agreement, our share in the profits declines over time as new participants enter the market. Revenues from this arrangement were $46 million and $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decline in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022, is due to the entry of a new market participant.

Worldwide sales of Marvelon and Mercilon, combined oral hormonal daily contraceptive pills not approved or marketed in the United States but available in certain countries outside the United States, increased 12% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021 as a result of the recent transaction with Bayer Healthcare where Organon gained full rights in the China and Vietnam markets.

Fertility

Worldwide sales of Follistim AQ® (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Puregon), a fertility treatment, declined 3% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021, as continuous demand growth in the United States and China was offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and the negative impact of COVID in China.

Worldwide sales of Ganirelix Acetate Injection (marketed in certain countries outside the United States as Orgalutran), a fertility treatment, increased 11% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, driven by demand uptake in the international markets.

-55-

Table of Contents
Biosimilars

--------------- ----------------------- -------- --- ----------------------------------- --- ------------- --- ----------------------------------- - --- -- - ---- - ---- - -- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Renflexis $ 226 $ 186 $ 135 21 % 22 % 37 % 36 %
Ontruzant 122 126 115 (4) — 10 7
Brenzys 75 63 74 19 24 (15) (20)
Hadlima 19 13 — 51 57 — —

Renflexis is a biosimilar to Remicade for the treatment of certain inflammatory diseases. Sales growth of 21% for the year ended December 31, 2022, was driven primarily by continued demand growth, favorable channel mix and favorable discount rates in the United States. We have commercialization rights to Renflexis in countries outside Europe, Korea, China, Turkey and Russia.

Ontruzant is a biosimilar to Herceptin for the treatment of HER2-overexpressing breast cancer and HER2-overexpressing metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. Sales in the year ended December 31, 2022 declined 4%, driven by the competitive pressures in Europe and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange offset by the continued uptake in the United States since its launch in July 2020. We have commercialization rights to Ontruzant in countries outside of Korea and China.

Brenzys is a biosimilar to Enbrel for the treatment of certain inflammatory diseases. Sales in the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 19%, primarily driven by volume growth in Canada. We have commercialization rights to Brenzys in countries outside of the United States, Europe, Korea, China and Japan.

Hadlima is a biosimilar to Humira for the treatment of certain inflammatory diseases. We have worldwide commercialization rights to Hadlima in countries outside of the EU, Korea, China, Turkey and Russia. Samsung Bioepis reached a global settlement with AbbVie permitting us to launch Hadlima outside of the United States starting in 2021 and in the United States in June 2023. Hadlima is currently approved in the United States, Australia, Canada, and Israel. Hadlima was launched in Australia and Canada in February 2021. In August 2022, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the citrate-free, high-concentration (100 mg/mL) formulation of Hadlima. We recorded sales of $19 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, reflecting an increase of 51% from modest sales during the year ended December 31, 2021 in markets outside of the US.

Established Brands

Established brands represents a broad portfolio of well-known brands, which generally are beyond market exclusivity, including leading brands in cardiovascular, respiratory, dermatology and non-opioid pain management, for which generic competition varies by market.

Cardiovascular

--------------- ----------------------- -------- --- ----------------------------------- --- ------------- --- ----------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Zetia/Vytorin $ 488 $ 542 $ 664 (10) % (3) % (18) % (22) %
Atozet 457 458 453 — 11 1 (3)
Rosuzet 71 68 130 5 23 (48) (47)
Cozaar/Hyzaar 323 357 386 (10) (3) (7) (11)

Combined global sales of Zetia (marketed in most countries outside of the United States as Ezetrol) and Vytorin (marketed outside of the United States as Inegy), medicines for lowering LDL cholesterol, declined 10% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, primarily driven by increased competition, lower performance in Europe, the impact of VBP in China and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange offset by increased demand resulting from competitors' supply disruptions in Japan and growing demand in China across retail and public sectors.

-56-

Table of Contents

Sales of Atozet, a medicine for lowering LDL cholesterol, remained consistent for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to increased demand in France and Spain offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.

Sales of Rosuzet, a medicine for lowering LDL cholesterol, increased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to higher demand in Japan partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange.

Combined global sales of Cozaar, and Hyzaar (a combination of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide that is marketed in Japan as Preminent™1), a medicine for the treatment of hypertension, declined 10% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to lower volume growth in Japan and China and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.

Respiratory

--------------- ----------------------- -------- --- ----------------------------------- --- ------------- --- ----------------------------------- - --- --- - ---- - ---- - ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Singulair $ 411 $ 413 $ 462 (1) % 9 % (11) % (13) %
Nasonex 238 206 218 16 22 (6) (9)
Dulera 180 190 222 (5) (5) (15) (16)

Worldwide sales of Singulair, a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, declined 1% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, primarily attributable the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange offset by volume recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and demand resulting from competitors' supply disruptions in Japan.

Global sales of Nasonex, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, increased 16% during the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily driven by higher demand resulting from competitors' supply disruptions in Japan and increased demand across several markets, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. In addition, sales during the year ended December 31, 2022 included a $10 million milestone payment related to a regulatory approval in the United States.

Global sales of Dulera, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, declined 5% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to lower volume growth in the United States.

Non-Opioid Pain, Bone and Dermatology

--------------- ----------------------- -------- --- ----------------------------------- ------------- --- ----------------------------------- - --- --- - - - --- - --- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Arcoxia1 $ 241 $ 244 $ 258 (1) % 4 % (5) % (8) %

Sales of Arcoxia, a medicine for the treatment of arthritis and pain, declined 1% during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange offset by higher demand in China and the South East Asia region.

-57-

Table of Contents
Other

--------------- ----------------------- -------- --- ----------------------------------- ------------- --- ----------------------------------- - --- ---- - --- - ---- - ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange % Change % Change Excluding Foreign Exchange
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Proscar $ 101 $ 117 $ 176 (14) % (9) % (33) % (37) %

Worldwide sales of Proscar, a medicine for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement, declined 14% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to lower demand in China and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.

Costs, Expenses and Other

----------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---- -------- ----- ----- - ------------- ----- ------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - - -- -- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Cost of sales $ 2,294 $ 2,382 $ 2,119 (4) % 12 %
Selling, general and administrative 1,704 1,668 1,356 2 23
Research and development 471 339 210 39 61
Acquired in-process research and development and milestones 107 104 — 3 *
Restructuring costs 28 3 60 * (95)
Interest expense 422 258 — 64 *
Exchange losses 11 4 44 * (91)
Other expense (income), net 15 17 (9) (12) *
 $ 5,052 $ 4,775 $ 3,780 6 % 26 %

* Calculation not meaningful.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales decreased 4% compared to the same period in 2021, primarily due to the impact of lower supply sales compared to the prior year, pre-spin allocated costs related to the Separation in the prior year and a $24 million charge pertaining to unavoidable losses associated with a long-term vendor supply contract incurred during the prior year, offset by inventory charges of $36 million relating to a regulatory inspection finding at the Heist manufacturing location which impacts selected injectable steroids brands. During the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company recorded impairment charges of $9 million and $7 million, respectively, related to a product right for a biosimilar product. Cost of sales includes amortization of intangible assets which totaled $116 million in 2022, $103 million in 2021 and $86 million in 2020.

Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2% for the year ended December 31, 2022 due to selling and promotional costs related to our women's health portfolio, including costs related to our recent acquisitions, partially offset by pre-spin allocated costs related to the Separation during the prior year which were not incurred during the year ended December 31, 2022.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses increased 39% for the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to higher costs associated with the Company's recent acquisitions of clinical stage assets, increased clinical study activity and higher employee-related costs.

Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Milestones

For the year ended December 31, 2022 acquired in-process research and development and milestones of $107 million represent the upfront and development milestones related to the Cirqle and Henlius transactions. Acquired in-process research and development and milestones for the year ended December 31, 2021 of $104 million represents the upfront milestones related to

-58-

Table of Contents
the licensing agreement for the global development, manufacturing and commercial rights to ebopiprant (OBE022) (the "ebopiprant license") and the acquisition of Forendo Pharma.

Restructuring Costs

During the year end December 31, 2022, the Company initiated restructuring activities to optimize its internal operations. The restructuring charges primarily relate to targeted reduction in headcount in selective territories outside of the U.S. in our commercial organizations. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company incurred $28 million related to headcount related restructuring activities.

Interest Expense

For the year ended December 31, 2022, interest expense increased, due to the $9.5 billion of debt, which was incurred by the Company during the second quarter of 2021, increased interest rates and the impact of exchange rates.

Exchange Losses (Gains)

For the year ended December 31, 2022, the change in exchanges losses (gains) was driven by the exchange rate impact on the portion of Euro-denominated debt not designated as a net investment hedge and the fluctuations in foreign exchange.

Other expense (income), net

For the year ended December 31, 2022, other expense, net, remained relatively consistent with the prior year.

Taxes on Income

The effective income tax rates were 18.3% and 11.7% for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These effective income tax rates reflect the beneficial impact of foreign earnings, offset by the impact of U.S. inclusions under the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income regime. The effective income tax rate for the year ended 2021 also reflected a $75 million tax benefit relating to a portion of the non-U.S. step-up of tax basis, as well as the income tax benefit recognized in connection with the conclusion of the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") examination of Merck's 2015-2016 U.S. federal income tax returns. As a result of that examination conclusion, we reflected an allocation from Merck of $18 million in the Consolidated Financial Statements representing our portion of the payment made to the IRS. Our portion of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits for the years under examination exceeded the allocated adjustments relating to this examination period. Therefore, for the year ended December 31, 2021, we reflected a $29 million net tax benefit. This net benefit reflects reductions in reserves for unrecognized tax benefits and other related liabilities for tax positions relating to the years that were under examination.

On August 16, 2022, the U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. Provisions of the bill that relate to tax include the minimum tax on book income, a 1% excise tax on stock buybacks and certain tax incentives to promote clean energy. There are no impacts of the legislation to the 2022 results. The Company is currently assessing future impacts of this recently enacted legislation.

Income/Loss from Discontinued Operations

The historical results of certain Merck non-U.S. legal entities that were contributed to Organon in connection with the Separation included operations related to other Merck products that were retained by Merck. The Merck Retained Products business of the Transferred Entities were contributed by Organon to Merck and its affiliates. Accordingly, the historical results of operations of the Merck Retained Products have been reflected as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

-59-

Table of Contents
Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2022, Organon had cash and cash equivalents of $706 million. On June 6, 2022, the Company made a discretionary prepayment of $100 million on the U.S. Dollar-denominated term loan. The Company has historically generated and expects to continue to generate positive cash flow from operations. We plan to continue to fund our ongoing operating, investing and financing requirements mainly through cash flows from operations, available liquidity through cash on hand, available capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility and access to capital markets.

Working capital was $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2022 and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. The increase in working capital of continuing operations was primarily driven by a decrease in trade accounts payable.

Net cash provided by operating activities was $858 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $2.2 billion for the same period in the prior year. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2022 was primarily attributable to the decrease in trade payables, including balances with Merck.

Net cash used in investing activities was $420 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $481 million for the same period in the prior year, primarily reflecting the asset acquisition of Marvelon and Mercilon and licensing agreements with Daré, Henlius and Cirqle in the year ended December 31, 2022 and the asset acquisitions of Alydia Health and Forendo Pharma and the ebopiprant license in the year ended December 31, 2021.

Net cash used in financing activities was $433 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $977 million for the same period in the prior year. The change in cash used in financing activities reflects the settlement of the transactions with Merck in connection with the Separation in 2021 and the prior year issuance of long term debt, partially offset by the payment of dividends in the current year.

Our ability to fund our operations and anticipated capital needs is reliant upon the generation of cash from operations, supplemented as necessary by periodic utilization of our Revolving Credit Facility. Our principal uses of cash in the future will be primarily to fund our operations, working capital needs, capital expenditures, repayment of borrowings, payment of dividends and strategic business development transactions.

Capital expenditures were $196 million and $192 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2022 and 2021 reflect investments in new capital projects focused primarily on establishing Organon as an independent Company. We estimate that we will continue to invest in new capital projects in 2023, for ongoing projects to stand up Organon, principally related to investments in information technology.

In 2022, the armed conflict between Ukraine and Russia escalated, which may adversely impact Organon's business. Specifically, trade sanctions, travel bans and asset and financial freezes announced by the United States, European Union and other countries against Russian entities and designated individuals, as well as counter-measures announced by Russia, have impacted and may continue to impact many global businesses in direct and indirect ways (including, but not limited to, product shipping delays, supply shortages, delays in regulatory approvals and audits, constraints in energy supply, currency exchange rates and exchange controls). Such actions may negatively impact the financial institutions, vendors, manufacturers, suppliers, partners and other third parties with whom Organon conducts business. Organon will continue to monitor the impacts of the conflict, which may negatively impact Organon's operations, financial position or cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, Organon's combined revenues from Ukraine and Russia were approximately 2% of total revenues. As of December 31, 2022, the Company's assets in Ukraine and Russia are not material.

Contractual Obligations

Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022, which require material cash requirements in the future, consist of contractual milestones, purchase obligations, lease obligations and the settlement of certain tax matters.

Contractual milestones are potential payments based upon the achievement of specified milestones associated with business development transactions. Such milestone payments will only be payable in the event that the Company achieves contractually defined, success-based milestones, such as the advancement of the specified research and development programs; the receipt of regulatory approval for the specified compounds or products; and/or reaching a sales threshold of the specified compounds or products. The timing of the payments of the contractual milestones cannot be estimated and the likelihood of achieving the

-60-

Table of Contents
milestones cannot be determined. As of December 31, 2022, total potential payments due for contractual milestones are $2.4 billion. Amounts due within the next twelve months are $38 million.

Purchase obligations are enforceable and legally binding obligations for purchases of goods and services which include inventory purchase commitments. As of December 31, 2022, total payments due for purchase obligations are $1.2 billion and extend through 2030. Amounts due within the next twelve months are $343 million.

Lease obligations exclude reasonably certain lease renewals that have not yet been executed. As of December 31, 2022, total payments due for lease obligations are $220 million and extend through 2041. Amounts due within the next twelve months are $56 million.

Organon is responsible for settlement of certain tax matters, of which the Company expects to pay approximately $19 million within the next year.

During 2022, Organon paid cash dividends of $1.12 per share. On February 16, 2023, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.28 for each issued and outstanding share of the Company's common stock. The dividend is payable on March 16, 2023 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 27, 2023.

We believe that our financing arrangements, future cash from operations, and access to capital markets will provide adequate resources to fund our future cash flow needs.

The economy of Turkey was deemed hyperinflationary during the second quarter of 2022. Consequently, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company began remeasuring its monetary assets and liabilities for those operations in earnings beginning in the second quarter of 2022. The impact to the Company's financial condition and results is immaterial.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The audited annual consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on management's best estimates and judgments. A discussion of accounting estimates considered critical because of the potential for a significant impact on the financial statements due to the inherent uncertainty in such estimates are disclosed below. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. Revenue is recognized following a five-step model: (i) identify the customer contract; (ii) identify the contract's performance obligation; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation; and (v) recognize revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is reduced for gross-to-net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgment after considering applicable laws and regulations and definitive contractual agreements with private sector and public sector benefit providers. These types of variable consideration are estimated at the time of sale generally using the expected value method, although the most likely amount method is used for prompt pay discounts. In addition, revenues are recorded net of time value of money discounts if collection of accounts receivable is expected to be in excess of one year. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revise information or actual experience.

In the United States, revenue is reduced by sales discounts issued to customers at the point-of-sale, through an intermediary wholesaler (known as chargebacks), or in the form of rebate amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector (Managed Care) and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D customers). Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions.

The provision for aggregate customer discounts in the United States covers chargebacks and rebates. We determine the provision for chargebacks based on expected sell-through levels by our wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. The provision for rebates is based on expected patient usage, as well as inventory levels in the distribution channel to determine the contractual obligation to the benefit providers. We use historical customer segment utilization mix, sales, changes to product mix and price, inventory levels in the distribution channel, government pricing calculations and prior payment history in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, federal and state agencies, and other customers to the amounts accrued.

-61-

Table of Contents

We continually monitor our provision for aggregate customer discounts. There were no material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate customer discount provision in 2022, 2021, or 2020.

Summarized information about changes in the aggregate customer discount accrual related to sales in the United States is as follows:

------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- ------- ---- --- ------- - ---
 Year EndedDecember 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Balance January 1 $ 329 $ 343 $ 365
Provision 2,221 2,000 1,770
Payments(1) (2,165) (2,014) (1,792)
Balance December 31 $ 385 $ 329 $ 343

(1) Includes 2021 payments made by Merck on behalf of Organon for the period prior to the Separation date.

Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in accounts receivable and accrued and other current liabilities were $78 million and $307 million, respectively, at December 31, 2022, $54 million and $275 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021 and $41 million and $302 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020.

Outside of the United States, variable consideration in the form of discounts and rebates are a combination of commercially-driven discounts in highly competitive product classes, discounts required to gain or maintain reimbursement, or legislatively mandated rebates. In certain European countries, legislatively mandated rebates are calculated based on an estimate of the government's total unbudgeted spending and our specific payback obligation. Rebates may also be required based on specific product sales thresholds. We apply an estimated factor against our actual invoiced sales to represent the expected level of future discount or rebate obligations associated with the sale.

We maintain a returns policy that allows our customers in certain countries to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and 12 months after product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, we consider factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over-the-counter products, among others.

See Note 3 "Summary of Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional details on our revenue recognition policy.

Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities

We are involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to our business, including product liability, intellectual property, and commercial litigation, as well as certain additional matters including governmental and environmental matters. See Note 12 "Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. We record accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.

Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable.

We believe that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on us. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $4 million in 2022, and are estimated at $16 million in the aggregate for the years 2023 through 2027. In management's opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $20 million and $24 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $20 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity for any year.

-62-

Table of Contents

Impairments of Long-Lived Assets

We assess changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of our property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. The judgments made in evaluating impairment of long-lived intangibles can materially affect our results of operations.

We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of our long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset's fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, we estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach.

Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment as of October 1 each year, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macroeconomic conditions, conditions specific to the industry and market, cost factors which could have a significant effect on earnings or cash flows, and overall financial performance. If we conclude it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value, a quantitative fair value test is performed. If carrying value is greater than fair value, a goodwill impairment charge will be recorded for the difference (up to the carrying value of goodwill). We completed the annual qualitative goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2022 and concluded that there was no impairment to goodwill as the fair value of the reporting unit was significantly in excess of the carrying value.

Acquired intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated useful life, and amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, we will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Potential risks leading to impairment could include loss of exclusivity occurring earlier than expected, competition, pricing reductions, and other macroeconomic changes. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows. Organon recorded impairment charges of $9 million and $7 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 respectively. See Note 10 "Intangibles" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional details on Intangibles.

Taxes on Income

Deferred taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and rates. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. We evaluate tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, we recognize the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, we do not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. We recognize interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as a component of Taxes on Income in the consolidated statement of income.

Prior to the Separation, we did not maintain an income taxes payable to or from account as it is deemed to be settled with the tax paying entities in the respective jurisdictions. These settlements are reflected as changes in accumulated deficit in the consolidated balance sheet. However, our consolidated balance sheet reflects balances with taxing authorities and the one-time transition tax resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017, as well as for unrecognized income tax benefits along with related interest and penalties.

Prior to the Separation, income tax expense and deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statements were calculated on a separate tax return basis. We relied on certain assumptions, one of them that as a standalone basis we would not benefit from certain tax incentives that historically benefited Merck. We believe the assumptions supporting the allocation and presentation of income taxes on a separate return basis were reasonable.

-63-

Table of Contents

Inventory Valuation

Inventories consist of currently marketed products and are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Inventories are assessed regularly for impairment and valuation reserves are established when necessary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, product obsolescence and changes in estimates of future product demand and expiry. The determination of events and the assumptions utilized in our quantification of valuation reserves may require judgment. No material adjustments have been required to our inventory reserve estimates for the periods presented. Adverse changes in assumptions utilized in our inventory reserve calculations could result in an increase to our inventory valuation reserves and higher cost of sales.

Acquisitions

Business combinations are evaluated in order to determine whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. The Company makes certain judgments, which include assessment of the inputs, processes, and outputs associated with the acquired set of activities. If the Company determines that substantially all of the fair value of gross assets included in a transaction is concentrated in a single asset (or a group of similar assets), the Company accounts for the transaction as an asset acquisition. In an asset acquisition, acquired IPR&D with no alternative future use is charged to expense and contingent consideration is not recognized at the acquisition date. Product development milestones are recognized upon achievement and sales-based milestones are recognized when the milestone is deemed probable of being achieved.

To be considered a business, the assets in a transaction need to include an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. Businesses acquired are consolidated upon obtaining control. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are generally recognized at fair value. If fair value cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.

The fair values of intangible assets are determined utilizing information available near the acquisition date based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management.

Pension

Our pension plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. These significant assumptions are reviewed annually and are disclosed in Note 14 "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans" to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For our pension plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due.

The expected rate of return for the pension plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term compound annualized returns of historical market data, current market conditions and actual returns on the Company's plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward-looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted-average expected long-term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate.

Stock-Based Compensation

We expense all stock-based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The fair value of certain stock-based awards is determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options.

-64-

Table of Contents
Recently Issued Accounting Standards

For a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 3 "Summary of Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29
