================================================================================
CIK: 0000087347
Company Name: SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED/NV
Filing Date: 2023-01-25
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 08:11:09
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K.

We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, which discuss the material factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.

Business and Operational Risks

Demand for our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. Recent oil and gas industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand for oilfield products and services and lower expenditures by our customers, which has in the past had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Demand for our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on our customers’ views of future demand for oil and gas and future oil and gas prices, as well as our customers’ ability to access capital. In addition, the transition of the global energy sector from primarily a fossil fuel-based system to renewable energy sources could affect our customers’ levels of expenditures.

Actual and anticipated declines in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Historically, oil and gas prices have experienced significant volatility and can be affected by a variety of factors, including:

 • changes in the supply of and demand for hydrocarbons, which are affected by general economic and business conditions;

 • the costs of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and gas;

 • the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the expanded alliance known as OPEC+ to set and maintain production levels for oil;

 • the level of oil and gas exploration and production activity;

 • the level of excess production capacity;
 - ----------------------------------------
 • the level of refining capacity;

 • the level of oil and gas inventories;

 • access to potential resources;

 • political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest;

 • governmental laws, policies, regulations, subsidies, and other actions, including initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources;

 • speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and gas futures contracts;

 • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and

 • extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, and public health or similar issues, such as pandemics and epidemics.

10

The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our products and services and downward pressure on the prices that we are able to charge. Sustained market uncertainty can also result in lower demand and pricing for our products and services. A significant industry downturn, sustained market uncertainty, or increased availability of economical alternative energy sources could result in a reduction in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.

Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic, and social environments of the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We are a global technology company, and our non-US operations accounted for approximately 84% of our consolidated revenue in 2022, 85% in 2021 and 81% in 2020. Instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we operate could result in business disruptions or operational challenges that may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, or our reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:

 • uncertain or volatile political, social, and economic conditions;
 - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 • exposure to expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our assets or the assets of our customers, or other governmental actions;

 • social unrest, acts of terrorism, war, or other armed conflict;

 • public health crises and other catastrophic events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic;

 • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;

 • theft of, or lack of sufficient legal protection for, proprietary technology and other intellectual property;

 • deprivation of contract rights;

 • trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, China, or other regions or countries that could restrict or curtail our ability to operate in certain markets;

 • unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws;

 • restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;

 • currency exchange controls;

 • inflation; and

 • currency exchange, rate fluctuations and devaluations.

As an example of a risk resulting from our global operations, in March 2022 we decided to immediately suspend new investment and technology deployment to our Russia operations. Russia represented approximately 6% of our worldwide revenue during 2022. The carrying value of our net assets in Russia was approximately $0.7 billion as of December 31, 2022. This consisted of $0.3 billion of receivables, $0.3 billion of fixed assets, $0.5 billion of current assets, and $0.4 billion of current liabilities.

We continue to actively monitor the dynamic situation in Ukraine and applicable laws, sanctions and trade control restrictions resulting from the conflict. The extent to which our operations and financial results may be affected by the ongoing conflict in Ukraine will depend on various factors, including the extent and duration of the conflict; the effects of the conflict on regional and global economic and geopolitical conditions; the effect of further laws, sanctions and trade control restrictions on our business, the global economy and global supply chains; and the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the ruble. Continuation or escalation of the conflict may also aggravate this and other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, including cybersecurity, regulatory, and reputational risks.

Failure to effectively and timely address the energy transition could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.

Our long-term success depends on our ability to effectively address the energy transition, which will require adapting our technology portfolio to changing customer preferences and government requirements, developing solutions to decarbonize oil and gas operations, and scaling innovative low-carbon and carbon-neutral technologies. If the energy transition landscape changes faster than anticipated or in a manner that we do not anticipate, demand for our products and services could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we fail or are perceived to not effectively implement an energy transition strategy, or if investors or financial institutions shift funding away from companies in fossil fuel-related industries, our access to capital or the market for our securities could be negatively impacted.

Our operations are subject to cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Our success depends in part on our ability to provide effective data security protection in connection with our digital technologies and services. We rely on information technology networks and systems for internal purposes, including secure data storage, processing, and transmission, as well as in our interactions with our business associates, such as customers and suppliers. We also develop software and other digital products and services that store, retrieve, manipulate, and manage our customers’ information and data, external data, personal data, and our own data. Our digital technologies and services, and those of our business associates, are subject to the risk of cyberattacks and, given the nature of such attacks, some incidents can remain undetected for a period of time despite efforts to detect and respond to them in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect material consequences arising from such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks do occur. We have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business, including attacks resulting from phishing emails and ransomware infections. Even if we successfully defend our own digital technologies and services, we

11

also rely on third-party business associates, with whom we may share data and services, to defend their digital technologies and services against attack.

Unauthorized access to or modification of, or actions disabling our ability to obtain authorized access to, our customers’ data, other external data, personal data, or our own data, as a result of a cyber incident, attack or exploitation of a security vulnerability, could result in significant damage to our reputation or disruption of the services we provide to our customers. In addition, allegations, reports, or concerns regarding vulnerabilities affecting our digital products or services could damage our reputation. This could lead to fewer customers using our digital products and services, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In addition, if our systems, or our third-party business associates’ systems, for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things, loss of or damage to intellectual property, proprietary or confidential information, or customer, supplier, or employee data; breach of personal data; interruption of our business operations; increased legal and regulatory exposure, including fines and remediation costs; and increased costs required to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity attacks. These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with our employees, business associates and other third parties, and may result in claims against us.

We operate in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold.

The energy industry is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to continue developing and producing innovative technologies in response to changes in the market, including customer and government requirements, or if we fail to deliver such technologies to our customers in a timely and cost-competitive manner. If we are unable to maintain technology leadership in our industry, our ability to maintain market share, defend, maintain, or increase prices for our products and services, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers could be adversely affected. Furthermore, competing or new technologies may accelerate the obsolescence of our products or services and reduce the value of our intellectual property.

Limitations on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold.

There can be no assurance that the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights will be adequate. Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending, or are trade secrets. Our business may be adversely affected when our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Patent protection on some types of technology, such as software or machine learning processes, may not be available in certain countries in which we operate. Our competitors may also be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets.

Third parties may claim that we have infringed upon or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights.

The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and components we use to provide our services and products may infringe upon or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others or be challenged on that basis. Regardless of the merits, any such claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, including reputational harm, and may distract management from running our business. Resolving such claims could increase our costs, including through royalty payments to acquire licenses, if available, from third parties and through the development of replacement technologies. If a license to resolve a claim were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

Our operations require us to comply with numerous laws and regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our operations are subject to international, regional, national, and local laws and regulations in every place where we operate, relating to matters such as environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, human rights, import/export controls, currency exchange, bribery and corruption, data privacy and cybersecurity, intellectual property, immigration, and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change, and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expands in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Our operations are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and other similar laws. We are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods and services to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. Our ability to transfer people, products and data among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations.

The internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors, or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or from material violations of applicable laws and regulations. Any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of applicable laws, including anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Violations of international and US laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material

12

adverse effect on our business, operations, and financial condition. In addition, any major violations could have a significant effect on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business and maintain existing customer and supplier relationships.

Existing or future laws, regulations, court orders or other public- or private-sector initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions or relating to climate change may reduce demand for our products and services.

Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and proposed international agreements and national, regional, and local legislation and regulatory measures to limit GHG emissions. The implementation of these agreements, including the Paris Agreement, the Europe Climate Law, and other existing or future regulatory mandates, may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, impose taxes on us or our customers, require us or our customers to reduce GHG emissions from our technologies or operations, or accelerate the obsolescence of our products or services.

In addition, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of litigation or investigations brought by public and private entities against oil and gas companies in connection with their GHG emissions. As a result, we or our customers may become subject to court orders compelling a reduction of GHG emissions or requiring mitigation of the effects of climate change.

There is also increased focus by our customers, investors and other stakeholders on climate change, sustainability, and energy transition matters. Actions to address these concerns or negative perceptions of our industry or fossil fuel products and their relationship to the environment have led to initiatives to conserve energy and promote the use of alternative energy sources, which may reduce the demand for and production of oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus reduce future demand for our products and services. In addition, initiatives by investors and financial institutions to limit funding to companies in fossil fuel-related industries may adversely affect our liquidity or access to capital. Any of these initiatives may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Environmental compliance costs and liabilities arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air and GHG emissions, water discharges and waste management, as well as the importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals, and explosives. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent, and expensive to implement. These laws sometimes provide for “strict liability” for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render us liable for damages without regard to our degree of care or fault. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances, and, as a result, we could be liable for the actions of others.

We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement or changing interpretations of existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and financial condition.

We could be subject to substantial liability claims, including as a result of well incidents, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety, and environmental risks. Our operations involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development, and production environments. Accidents or acts of malfeasance involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product (including as a result of a cyberattack), could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations, which could materially adversely affect us. Any well incidents, including blowouts at a well site or any loss of containment or well control, may expose us to additional liabilities, which could be material. Generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases, and limitations on liability with our customers and insurance to protect us from potential liability related to such events. However, our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

General Risk Factors

The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting adverse economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The COVID-19 pandemic caused, and any resurgence of the pandemic could again cause, a significant reduction in global economic activity, significantly weakening demand for oil and gas, and in turn, for our products and services. Other effects of the pandemic included, and may continue to include, significant volatility and disruption of the global financial markets; adverse revenue and net

13

income effects; disruptions to our operations, including suspension or deferral of drilling activities; customer shutdowns of oil and gas exploration and production; downward revisions to customer budgets; limitations on access to sources of liquidity; supply chain disruptions; limitations on access to raw materials; employee impacts from illness; and local and regional closures or lockdowns, including temporary closures of our facilities and the facilities of our customers and suppliers. The extent to which our operating and financial results will continue to be affected by the pandemic will depend on various factors beyond our control, such as the continued severity of the pandemic, including any sustained geographic resurgence; the emergence of new variants and strains of the COVID-19 virus; and the success of actions to contain or treat the virus. COVID-19, and volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, could also aggravate our other risk factors described in this Form 10-K.

Our aspirations, goals, and initiatives related to sustainability and emissions reduction, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, expose us to numerous risks.

We have developed, and will continue to develop and set, goals, targets, and other objectives related to sustainability matters, including our net-zero target and our energy transition strategy. Statements related to these goals, targets and objectives reflect our current plans and aspirations and do not constitute a guarantee that they will be achieved. Our efforts to research, establish, accomplish, and accurately report on these goals, targets, and objectives expose us to numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks. Our ability to achieve any stated goal, target, or objective, including with respect to emissions reduction, is subject to numerous factors and conditions, some of which are outside of our control. Our targets are based on empirical data and estimates that reflect the current best practices for measuring or estimating emissions, but we anticipate that future innovations in both measurement technologies and estimation methodologies could cause us to revise our baseline as well as re-calculate progress toward our targets.

Our business faces increased scrutiny from certain investors and other stakeholders related to our sustainability activities, including the goals, targets, and objectives that we announce, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them. If our sustainability practices do not meet investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, which continue to evolve, our reputation, our ability to attract or retain employees, and our attractiveness as an investment or business partner could be negatively affected. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our sustainability-focused goals, targets, and objectives, to comply with ethical, environmental, or other standards, regulations, or expectations, or to satisfy various reporting standards with respect to these matters, within the timelines we announce, or at all, could adversely affect our business or reputation, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation.

Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could impede our operations.

Our future success depends on our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel necessary for our businesses intensifies as activity increases, technology evolves and customer demands change. In periods of high utilization, it is often more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other material adverse effects on our operations.

Severe weather events, including extreme weather conditions associated with climate change, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations and financial results.

Our business has been, and in the future will be, affected by severe weather events in areas where we operate, which could materially affect our operations and financial results. Extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, flooding, landslides, and heat waves have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, the evacuation of personnel, stoppage of services and activity disruptions at our facilities, in our supply chain, or at well-sites, or result in disruptions of our customers’ operations. Particularly severe weather events affecting platforms or structures may result in a suspension of activities. In addition, acute or chronic physical impacts of climate change, such as sea level rise, coastal storm surge, inland flooding from intense rainfall, and hurricane-strength winds may damage our facilities. Any such extreme weather events may result in increased operating costs or decreases in revenue.

14

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2.  Properties.

SLB owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers, mines, and other facilities throughout the world, none of which are individually material.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.

The information with respect to this Item 3. Legal Proceedings is set forth in Note 14 – Contingencies, in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures.

Information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K is included in Exhibit 95 to this Form 10-K.

15

PART II

Item 5.  Market for SLB’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

As of December 31, 2022, there were 22,341 stockholders of record. The principal US market for SLB’s common stock is the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), where it is traded under the symbol “SLB.”

The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on SLB common stock with the cumulative total return on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (“S&P 500 Index”) and the cumulative total return on the Philadelphia Oil Service Index. It assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2017 in SLB common stock, in the S&P 500 Index and in the Philadelphia Oil Service Index, as well as the reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment. The stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. The following graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that SLB specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing.

Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among

SLB Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index and the

Philadelphia Oil Service Index

Share Repurchases

On January 21, 2016, the SLB Board of Directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for SLB common stock. SLB had repurchased $1.0 billion of its common stock under this program as of December 31, 2022. SLB did not repurchase any of its common stock during 2022.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

None.

Item 6. [Reserved].

16

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and resources. Such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.

This section of the Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021.   Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparison between 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of SLB’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.

2022 Executive Overview

We delivered strong fourth quarter results and concluded a remarkable year for SLB with great success. Full-year 2022 revenue of $28.1 billion increased 23% year on year. All Divisions and geographical areas experienced double digit revenue growth.

2022 was transformative for SLB as we set new safety, operational, and performance benchmarks for our customers and strengthened our market position both internationally and in North America. We launched our bold new brand identity, reinforcing our leadership position in energy technology, digital, and sustainability, and demonstrated our ability to deliver superior earnings in this early phase of a structural upcycle in energy.

In North America, we seized the growth cycle throughout the year, increased our pretax operating margins close to 600 basis points (“bps”), and almost doubled our pretax operating income. We effectively harnessed our refocused portfolio, fit-for-basin technology, and performance differentiation to gain greater market access and improved pricing, particularly in the drilling markets where we significantly outperformed rig count growth. Today, we have built one of the highest-quality oilfield services and equipment businesses in North America through the implementation of our returns-focused strategy.

In the international markets, after a first half of the year that was impacted by geopolitical conflict and supply chain bottlenecks, activity began to visibly expand in the second half of the year, resulting in full year revenue growth of 20% and margin expansion of more than 150 bps. We laid the foundation for further growth and margin expansion through pricing improvements and a solid pipeline of incremental contract awards. In the Middle East, SLB is well positioned to be a key beneficiary of this visible market expansion, and we expect record levels of upstream investment by national oil companies to continue in the next few years. During the year, we secured a sizeable share of tender awards in the region, driven by our differentiated performance, fit-for-purpose technology, and best-in-class local content. Similarly, across offshore basins, we continue to consolidate our advantaged position with new contract awards, particularly in Latin America and Africa.

Beyond our financial results, we made significant progress in our sustainability initiatives during the year, including launching several new Transition Technologies to support the decarbonization of oil and gas. Our Transition Technologies portfolio revenue grew more than 30% year-on-year, and we project it will cross the $1 billion revenue mark in 2023.

Finally, we initiated increased returns to shareholders, demonstrating confidence in our strategy, our financial outperformance, and our commitment to superior returns. We increased our dividend by 40% in April 2022, followed by a further 43% increase in January 2023, and we resumed our share buyback program in the first quarter of 2023.

The fourth quarter affirmed a distinctive new phase in the upcycle with the much-anticipated acceleration of activity in the Middle East, as revenue in the region increased by double digits. Offshore activity continued to strengthen, partially offset by seasonality in the Northern Hemisphere. In North America, the US land rig count remains at robust levels, although the pace of growth is moderating. Additionally, pricing continues to trend favorably, extending beyond North America and into the international regions, supported by new technology and very tight equipment and service capacity in certain markets.

These activity dynamics, improved pricing, and our commercial success—particularly in the Middle East, offshore, and North American markets—combine to set a very strong foundation for outperformance in 2023.

We strengthened our balance by reducing our net debt by $1.7 billion to $9.3 billion, its lowest level since the second quarter of 2016, and repaid approximately $1.7 billion of gross debt during the year.

Looking ahead, we believe the macro backdrop and market fundamentals that underpin a strong multi-year upcycle for energy remain very compelling in both oil and gas and in low-carbon energy resources. First, oil and gas demand is forecasted by the International Energy Agency (“IEA”) to grow by 1.7 million barrels per day in 2023 despite concerns for a potential economic slowdown in certain regions. In parallel, markets remain very tightly supplied. Second, energy security is prompting a sense of urgency to make further investments to ensure capacity expansion and diversity of supply. And third, the secular trends of digital and decarbonization are set to accelerate with significant digital technology advancements, favorable government policy support, and increased spending on low-carbon initiatives and resources.

Based on these factors, global upstream spending projections continue to trend positively. Activity growth is expected to be broad-based, marked by an acceleration in international basins. These positive activity dynamics will be amplified by higher service pricing

17

and tighter service sector capacity. The impact of loosening COVID-19 restrictions and an earlier than expected reopening of China could support further upside potential over 2023.

Overall, the combination of these effects will result in a very favorable mix for SLB with significant growth opportunities in our Core, Digital, and New Energy and we expect another year of very strong growth and margin expansion.

Fourth Quarter 2022 Results

 (Stated in millions)
------------------------------- ------------------- ----- - ------------------ -------------------- ----- ------- - ------ - ------ - ----- -

 Fourth Quarter 2022 Third Quarter 2022
 Pretax Pretax
 Revenue Income Revenue Income
Digital & Integration $ 1,012 $ 382 $ 900 $ 305
Reservoir Performance 1,554 282 1,456 244
Well Construction 3,229 679 3,084 664
Production Systems 2,215 238 2,150 224
Eliminations & other (131 ) (24 ) (113 ) (37 )
Pretax segment operating income 1,557 1,400
Corporate & other (1) (169 ) (155 )
Interest income (2) 14 8
Interest expense (3) (118 ) (119 )
Charges & credits (4) 63 -
 $ 7,879 $ 1,347 $ 7,477 $ 1,134

(1) Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible assets, certain centrally managed initiatives and other nonoperating items.

(2) Excludes interest income included in the segments’ income (fourth quarter 2022: $19 million; third quarter 2022: $25 million).

(3) Excludes interest expense included in the segments’ income (fourth quarter 2022: $3 million; third quarter 2022: $3 million).

(4) Charges & credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fourth-quarter revenue of $7.9 billion increased 5% sequentially. Revenue grew across all Divisions and geographical areas, with robust year-end sales in digital and particularly strong service activity offshore and in the Middle East where a significant inflection was witnessed as capacity expansion projects mobilized.

International revenue of $6.2 billion grew 5% sequentially, driven by continued strengthening activity. This revenue increase was led by the Middle East & Asia and Latin America, both of which grew 7%. In North America, revenue of $1.6 billion increased 6% sequentially driven by strong year-end exploration data licensing sales in the US Gulf of Mexico boosting North America offshore revenue.  US land revenue increased 4% sequentially due to drilling revenue growth, which outperformed the rig count growth.

Fourth-quarter pretax segment operating margin of 19.8% was the highest since 2015.

Digital & Integration

Digital & Integration fourth-quarter revenue of $1.0 billion increased 12% sequentially, propelled by the year-end exploration data licensing sales in the US Gulf of Mexico and Africa; increased Asset Performance Solutions (“APS”) project activity in Ecuador and higher digital sales internationally.

Digital & Integration pretax operating margin of 38% expanded 386 bps sequentially, due to improved profitability in exploration data licensing and digital solutions.

Reservoir Performance

Reservoir Performance revenue of $1.6 billion increased 7% sequentially from new projects and activity gains internationally, particularly in the Middle East and Africa.

Reservoir Performance pretax operating margin of 18% expanded 146 bps sequentially. Profitability was boosted by higher offshore and exploration activity, mainly in Africa, and strong development activity, particularly in US land and Middle East & Asia.

Well Construction

Well Construction revenue of $3.2 billion increased 5% sequentially, outperforming global rig count growth due to strong activity from new projects and solid pricing improvements internationally, particularly in the Middle East & Asia and Latin America.

18

Well Construction pretax operating margin of 21% contracted 50 bps sequentially, as improved profitability from increasing activity in the Middle East & Asia, North America, and Latin America was more than offset by the onset of seasonal effects in the Northern Hemisphere.

Production Systems

Production Systems revenue of $2.2 billion increased 3% sequentially primarily due to higher international sales of artificial lift, completions, and midstream productions systems.

Production Systems pretax operating margin of 11% expanded 32 bps sequentially primarily due to an improved revenue mix.

Full-Year 2022 Results

 (Stated in millions)
------------------------------- ------- ------ - ------ -------------------- ----- ------- - ------ - ------ - ----- -

 2022 2021
 Pretax Pretax
 Revenue Income Revenue Income
Digital & Integration $ 3,725 $ 1,357 $ 3,290 $ 1,141
Reservoir Performance 5,553 881 4,599 648
Well Construction 11,397 2,202 8,706 1,195
Production Systems 7,862 748 6,710 634
Eliminations & other (446 ) (177 ) (376 ) (253 )
Pretax segment operating income 5,011 3,365
Corporate & other (1) (637 ) (573 )
Interest income (2) 27 31
Interest expense (3) (477 ) (514 )
Charges & credits (4) 347 65
 $ 28,091 $ 4,271 $ 22,929 $ 2,374

(1) Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible assets, certain centrally managed initiatives and other nonoperating items.

(2) Excludes interest income included in the segments’ income (2022: $72 million; 2021: $2 million).

(3) Excludes interest expense included in the segments’ income (2022: $13 million; 2021: $15 million) and $10 million interest expense included in Charges & credits in 2021.

(4) Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Full-year 2022 revenue of $28.1 billion increased 23% year-on-year driven by activity increases internationally, in North America and across all Divisions.

International revenue increased 20% to $21.9 billion led by Latin America and Europe/CIS/Africa with revenue growth of 27% and 25%, respectively, while revenue in the Middle East & Asia increased 12%. In North America, revenue increased 34% to $6.0 billion primarily driven by robust onshore drilling activity; higher sales of production systems; a strong contribution from the APS project in Canada; and increased exploration data licensing in the US Gulf of Mexico.

Full-year pretax operating margin of 18% increased 316 bps due to improved operating leverage from higher activity, a favorable activity mix, and an improving pricing environment.

Digital & Integration

Digital & Integration full-year revenue of $3.7 billion increased 13% year on year, primarily driven by increased APS project activity in Ecuador and Canada and higher exploration data licensing sales in the US Gulf of Mexico.

Digital & Integration pretax operating margin of 36% expanded 177 bps year on year largely due to improved profitability in exploration data licensing.

Reservoir Performance

Reservoir Performance full-year revenue of $5.6 billion increased 21% year on year as a result of strong international activity led by the Middle East & Asia and Latin America on higher activity and improved pricing.

19

Reservoir Performance pretax operating margin of 16% increased 177 bps year on year primarily due to improved profitability in intervention activity.

Well Construction

Well Construction full-year revenue of $11.4 billion grew 31% year on year with strong growth across all geographical areas led by North America and Latin America, which grew 56% and 53%, respectively. This growth was driven by higher land and offshore activity along with improved pricing.

Well Construction pretax operating margin of 19% expanded 560 bps year on year driven by the higher activity and improved pricing.

Production Systems

Production Systems full-year revenue of $7.9 billion increased 17% year on year driven by new projects and increased sales activity primarily in Europe, Africa, and North America. Double digit growth was posted in midstream, artificial lift, surface production systems and subsea production systems.

Production Systems pretax operating margin of 10% was essentially flat primarily as a result of higher logistics costs and a less favorable revenue mix.

Interest & Other Income, Net

Interest & other income, net consisted of the following:

 (Stated in millions)
---------------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---- -------------------- ---

 2022 2021
Gain on sale of Liberty shares $ 325 $ 28
Loss on Blue Chip Swap transactions (139 ) -
Gain on ADC equity investment 107 -
Earnings of equity method investments 164 40
Interest income 99 33
Gain on sale of real estate 43 -
Gain on repurchase of bonds 11 -
Unrealized gain on marketable securities - 47
 $ 610 $ 148

During 2022, SLB sold 47.8 million of its shares of Liberty and recognized a gain of $325 million. During 2021, SLB sold 9.5 million of its shares of Liberty and recognized a gain of $28 million.

SLB’s functional currency in Argentina is the US dollar and it uses Argentina’s official exchange rate to remeasure its Argentine peso-denominated net assets into US dollars. The Central Bank of Argentina maintains certain currency controls that limit SLB’s ability to access US dollars in Argentina and remit cash from its Argentine operations.  A legal indirect foreign exchange mechanism exists-in the form of capital market transactions known as Blue Chip Swaps, which effectively results in a parallel US dollar exchange rate.  This parallel rate, which cannot be used as the basis to remeasure SLB’s net monetary assets in US dollars under US GAAP, was approximately 93% higher than Argentina’s official exchange rate at December 31, 2022.  During the fourth quarter of 2022, SLB entered into Blue Chip Swap transactions that resulted in a loss of $139 million.

SLB’s peso-denominated net assets in Argentina were approximately $40 million at December 31, 2022 (as compared to approximately $270 million at September 30, 2022), primarily consisting of cash. If Argentina’s official exchange rate converges with the parallel rate, SLB would incur a loss on its peso-denominated net assets in Argentina.  Additionally, SLB may enter into further Blue Chip Swap transactions in the future. Argentina represented less than 5% of SLB’s consolidated revenue in 2022.

SLB has an investment in the Arabian Drilling Company (“ADC”), an onshore and offshore gas and oil rig drilling company in Saudi Arabia, that it accounts for under the equity method.  During the fourth quarter of 2022, ADC completed an initial public offering (“IPO”).  In connection with the IPO, SLB sold a portion of its interest in a secondary offering that resulted in SLB receiving net proceeds of $223 million.  As a result of these transactions, SLB’s ownership interest in ADC decreased from 49% to approximately 34%.  SLB recognized a gain of $107 million, representing the gain on the sale of a portion of its interest as well as the effect of the ownership dilution of its equity investment due to the IPO.

The increase in earnings of equity method investments in 2022 as compared to 2021 is primarily due to SLB’s investment in Liberty, as Liberty experienced net losses in 2021 as compared to net income in 2022, as well as higher earnings from SLB’s investment in ADC.

The increase in interest income was primarily driven by the effect of higher cash and short-term investment balances and interest rates in Argentina.  This increase was more than offset by approximately $100 million of foreign exchange losses recorded during 2022 ($13

20

million during 2021) relating to the remeasurement of Argentine peso-denominated net monetary assets as the official Argentine peso exchange rate devalued compared to the US dollar throughout 2022.

During 2022, SLB sold certain real estate and recognized a gain of $43 million.

During the fourth quarter of 2022, SLB repurchased $395 million of its 3.75% Senior Notes due 2024 and $409 million of its 4.00% Senior Notes due 2025 for $790 million, resulting in a gain of $11 million after considering the write-off of the related deferred financing fees and other costs.

During 2021, a start-up company that SLB previously invested in was acquired.  As a result of this transaction, SLB’s ownership interest was converted into shares of a publicly traded company. SLB recognized an unrealized pretax gain of $47 million to increase the carrying value of this investment to its estimated fair value of approximately $55 million.

Interest Expense

Interest expense of $490 million in 2022 decreased $49 million compared to 2021 primarily as a result of the repayment of $1.7 billion and $2.1 billion of debt during 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Other

Research & engineering and General & administrative expenses, as a percentage of Revenue, were as follows:

 2022 2021
------------------------ ---- --- - ---- --- -
Research & engineering 2.3 % 2.4 %
General & administrative 1.3 % 1.5 %

Income Taxes

The SLB effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings. When the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America increases, the SLB effective tax rate generally decreases. Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America decreases, the SLB effective tax rate generally increases.

The effective tax rate was 18% in 2022 as compared to 19% in 2021.  The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the charges and credits described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These charges and credits reduced the effective tax rate in 2022 by approximately one percentage point.

Charges and Credits

SLB recorded charges and credits during 2022 and 2021. These charges and credits, which are summarized below, are more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following is a summary of the 2022 charges and credits:

 (Stated in millions)
----------------------------------- -------------------- ---- - ----------- - --- --- - ---- -

 Pretax Tax Benefit
 Charge (Credit) (Expense) Net
First quarter:
Gain on sale of Liberty shares $ (26 ) $ (4 ) $ (22 )
Second quarter:
Gain on sale of Liberty shares (215 ) (14 ) (201 )
Gain on sale of real estate (43 ) (2 ) (41 )
Fourth quarter:
Gain on sale of Liberty shares (84 ) (19 ) (65 )
Loss on Blue Chip Swap transactions 139 - 139
Gain on ADC equity investment (107 ) (3 ) (104 )
Gain on repurchase of bonds (11 ) (2 ) (9 )
 $ (347 ) $ (44 ) $ (303 )

21

The following is a summary of the 2021 charges and credits:

 (Stated in millions)
---------------------------------------- -------------------- --- - ----------- - --- --- - --- -

 Pretax Tax Benefit
 Charge (Credit) (Expense) Net
Third quarter:
Unrealized gain on marketable securities $ (47 ) $ (11 ) $ (36 )
Fourth quarter:
Gain on sale of Liberty shares (28 ) (4 ) (24 )
Early repayment of bonds 10 - 10
 $ (65 ) $ (15 ) $ (50 )

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Details of the components of liquidity as well as changes in liquidity follow:

 (Stated in millions)
----------------------------------------------------------- -------- ------- - -------- -------------------- ------- -

 Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
Components of Liquidity: 2022 2021
Cash $ 1,655 $ 1,757
Short-term investments 1,239 1,382
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt (1,632 ) (909 )
Long-term debt (10,594 ) (13,286 )
Net debt (1) $ (9,332 ) $ (11,056 )

Changes in Liquidity: 2022 2021
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------- - ---- - ------- -
Net income $ 3,492 $ 1,928
Charges and credits (347 ) (65 )
Depreciation and amortization (2) 2,147 2,120
Stock-based compensation expense 313 324
Deferred taxes (39 ) (31 )
Earnings of equity method investments, less dividends received (96 ) 10
Increase in working capital (1,709 ) (45 )
US Federal tax refund - 477
Other (41 ) (67 )
Cash flow from operations 3,720 4,651
Capital expenditures (1,618 ) (1,141 )
APS investments (587 ) (474 )
Exploration data capitalized (97 ) (39 )
Free cash flow (3) 1,418 2,997
Dividends paid (848 ) (699 )
Proceeds from employee stock purchase plan 141 137
Proceeds from exercise of stock options 81 -
Taxes paid on net-settled stock-based compensation awards (93 ) (24 )
Business acquisitions and investments, net of cash acquired plus debt assumed (58 ) (103 )
Proceeds from sale of Liberty shares 732 109
Proceeds from sale of ADC shares 223 -
Proceeds from sale of real estate 120 -
Purchases of Blue Chip Swap securities (259 ) -
Proceeds from sales of Blue Chip Swap securities 111 -
Other (105 ) (81 )
Change in net debt before impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on net debt 1,463 2,336
Impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on net debt 261 488
Decrease in Net Debt 1,724 2,824
Net Debt, Beginning of period (11,056 ) (13,880 )
Net Debt, End of period $ (9,332 ) $ (11,056 )

22

(1) “Net debt” represents gross debt less cash and short-term investments. Management believes that Net debt provides useful information regarding the level of SLB’s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt. Net debt is a non-GAAP financial measure that should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, total debt.

(2) Includes depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of intangible assets, exploration data costs and APS investments.

(3) “Free cash flow” represents cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, APS investments and exploration data costs capitalized. Management believes that free cash flow is an important liquidity measure for the company and that it is useful to investors and management as a measure of our ability to generate cash. Once business needs and obligations are met, this cash can be used to reinvest in the company for future growth or to return to shareholders through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, cash flow from operations.

Key liquidity events during 2022 and 2021 included:

 • Cash flow from operations of $3.7 billion in 2022 decreased approximately $1.0 billion as compared to 2021. This decrease was primarily due to working capital consuming $1.7 billion of liquidity in 2022 compared to $45 million in 2021. The increase in working capital was largely the result of receivables increasing $1.7 billion (32%) and inventories increasing $0.7 billion (22%), respectively, from 2021 to 2022, while these balances were relatively flat at the end of 2021 as compared to 2020. The increase in receivables was driven primarily by the fact that SLB’s fourth quarter 2022 revenue increased 27% as compared to the same period last year. The increase in inventories was a result of the significant activity growth that SLB experienced in 2022 that is expected to continue in 2023. These increases in working capital were partially offset by increases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities that were a source of cash of $0.7 billion in 2022 compared to $0.2 billion in 2021.

The increase in working capital in 2022 was partially offset by the effects of a $1.3 billion increase in net income, excluding the effects of the previously mentioned charges and credits (which had no impact on cash flow from operations), in 2022 as compared to 2021. In addition, cash flow from operations in 2021 benefited from a federal tax refund of $477 million relating to the carryback of US net operating losses pursuant to the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act.

 • In April 2022, SLB announced a 40% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $0.125 per share of outstanding common stock to $0.175 per share, beginning with the dividend payable in July 2022. Dividends paid during 2022 and 2021 were $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively. In January 2023, SLB announced a further 43% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $0.175 per share of outstanding common stock to $0.25 per share, beginning with the dividend payable in April 2023.

 • On January 21, 2016, the SLB Board of Directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for SLB common stock. SLB had repurchased $1.0 billion of SLB common stock under this program as of December 31, 2022. SLB did not repurchase any of its common stock during 2022 and 2021. SLB resumed repurchases under this program in the first quarter of 2023.

 • Capital investments (consisting of capital expenditures, APS investments and exploration data capitalized) were $2.3 billion in 2022 and $1.7 billion in 2021. Capital investments during 2023 are expected to be approximately $2.5 to $2.6 billion as SLB continues to support the strong revenue growth that is expected to continue in 2023.

 • During 2022, SLB sold 47.8 million of its shares of Liberty and received proceeds of $732 million. During 2021, SLB sold 9.5 million of its shares of Liberty and received proceeds of $109 million.

 • During the fourth quarter of 2022, SLB repurchased $395 million of its 3.75% Senior Notes due 2024 and $409 million of its 4.00% Senior Notes due 2025 for $790 million.

 • During the fourth quarter of 2022, SLB sold a portion of its equity interest in ADC in a secondary offering that resulted in SLB receiving net proceeds of $223 million.

 • During the second quarter of 2022, SLB sold certain real estate and received proceeds of $120 million.

 • During the fourth quarter of 2021, SLB deposited sufficient funds with the trustee for its $1.0 billion of 2.40% Senior Notes due 2022 to satisfy and discharge all of its obligations relating to such notes.

 • During the second quarter of 2021, SLB repurchased all $665 million of its 3.30% Senior Notes due 2021.

As of December 31, 2022, SLB had $2.89 billion of cash and short-term investments and committed credit facility agreements with commercial banks aggregating $6.55 billion, all of which was available and unused. SLB believes these amounts, along with cash generated by ongoing operations, will be sufficient to meet future business requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

23

The following table reflects the carrying amounts of SLB’s debt at December 31, 2022 by year of maturity:

 (Stated in millions)
----------------------- ---- ----- ---- - --- ---- - ----- ---- ----- ---- - --- ---- - ----- ---- --- ----- - ----- -------------------- ----- - ------

 After
 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 Total
Fixed rate debt
3.65% Senior Notes $ 1,499 1,499
4.00% Notes 79 79
0.00% Notes $ 531 531
3.75% Senior Notes 355 355
3.70% Notes 54 54
4.00% Senior Notes $ 522 522
1.40% Senior Notes 499 499
1.375% Guaranteed Notes $ 1,060 1,060
1.00% Guaranteed Notes 636 636
0.25% Notes $ 955 955
3.90% Senior Notes $ 1,464 1,464
4.30% Senior Notes $ 847 847
2.65% Senior Notes $ 1,250 1,250
2.00% Guaranteed Notes $ 1,055 1,055
0.50% Notes 954 954
7.00% Notes 202 202
5.95% Notes 112 112
5.13% Notes 98 98
Total fixed rate debt $ 1,578 $ 940 $ 1,021 $ 1,696 $ 955 $ 1,464 $ 847 $ 1,250 $ 2,421 $ 12,172
Variable rate debt 54 - - - - - - - - 54
Total $ 1,632 $ 940 $ 1,021 $ 1,696 $ 955 $ 1,464 $ 847 $ 1,250 $ 2,421 $ 12,226

Interest payments on fixed rate debt obligations by year are as follows:

(Stated in millions)
-------------------- - -----

 2023 $ 386
 2024 320
 2025 301
 2026 265
 2027 235
Thereafter 706
 $ 2,213

See Note 13, Leases of the Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding SLB’s lease obligations.

SLB has outstanding letters of credit/guarantees that relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where SLB operates.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires SLB to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. The following accounting policies involve “critical accounting estimates” because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by SLB about matters that are inherently uncertain.

SLB bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

SLB maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in order to record accounts receivable at their net realizable value.  Judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments to this reserve.  Allowances have been recorded for receivables believed to be uncollectible, including amounts for the resolution of potential credit and other collection issues such as disputed invoices.  Adjustments

24

to the allowance may be required in future periods depending on how such potential issues are resolved, or if the financial condition of SLB’s customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments.

As a large multinational company with a long history of operating in a cyclical industry, SLB has extensive experience in working with its customers during difficult times to manage its accounts receivable. During weak economic environments or when there is an extended period of weakness in oil and gas prices, SLB typically experiences delays in the payment of its receivables.  However, except for a $469 million accounts receivable write-off during 2017 as a result of the political and economic condition in Venezuela, SLB has not historically had material write-offs due to uncollectible accounts receivable.  SLB has a global footprint in more than 100 countries.  As of December 31, 2022, three of those countries individually accounted for greater than 5% of SLB’s net accounts receivable balance, of which only two (the United States and Mexico) accounted for greater than 10% of such receivables.

Included in Receivables, less allowance for doubtful accounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2022 is approximately $1.0 billion of receivables relating to Mexico.  SLB’s receivables from its primary customer in Mexico are not in dispute and SLB has not historically had any material write-offs due to uncollectible accounts receivable relating to this customer.

Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets

SLB records the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as goodwill. The goodwill relating to each of SLB’s reporting units is tested for impairment annually as well as when an event, or change in circumstances, indicates an impairment may have occurred.

Under generally accepted accounting principles, SLB has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of one or more of its reporting units is greater than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, SLB determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, there is no need to perform any further testing. However, if SLB concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform a quantitative impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded based on that difference.

SLB has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test.

SLB elected to perform the qualitative assessment described above for purposes of its annual goodwill impairment test in 2022. Based on this assessment, SLB concluded it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of its reporting units was significantly greater than its carrying amount. Accordingly, no further testing was required.

Long-lived assets, including fixed assets, intangible assets, and investments in APS projects, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset’s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involves significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, SLB could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future.

Income Taxes

SLB conducts business in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are evolving. SLB’s tax filings are subject to regular audits by the tax authorities. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes that are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. SLB recognizes the impact of a tax position in its financial statements if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes that will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are judgmental and are made based upon prior experience, and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities that could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, SLB will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs.

Revenue Recognition for Certain Long-term Construction-type Contracts

SLB recognizes revenue for certain long-term construction-type contracts over time.  These contracts involve significant design and engineering efforts in order to satisfy custom designs for customer-specific applications.  Under this method, revenue is recognized as work progresses on each contract. Progress is measured by the ratio of actual costs incurred to date on the project in relation to total estimated project costs.  Approximately 5% of SLB’s revenue in 2022, 6% in 2021, and 5% in 2020, was recognized under this method.

The estimate of total project costs has a significant impact on both the amount of revenue recognized as well as the related profit on a project. Revenue and profits on contracts can also be significantly affected by change orders and claims.  Profits are recognized based on the estimated project profit multiplied by the percentage complete. Due to the nature of these projects, adjustments to estimates of contract revenue and total contract costs are often required as work progresses. Any expected losses on a project are recorded in full in the period in which they become probable.

25

Pension and Postretirement Benefits

SLB’s pension and postretirement benefit obligations are described in detail in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which include critical assumptions related to the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. These assumptions are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or upon the occurrence of significant events.

The discount rate that SLB uses reflects the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with maturities matching the expected timing of payment of the related benefit obligations. The following summarizes the discount rates utilized by SLB for its various pension and postretirement benefit plans:

 • The discount rate utilized to determine the liability for SLB’s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plan was 5.50% at December 31, 2022 and 3.00% at December 31, 2021.

 • The weighted-average discount rate utilized to determine the liability for SLB’s international pension plans was 5.41% at December 31, 2022 and 2.83% at December 31, 2021.

 • The discount rate utilized to determine expense for SLB’s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plan was 3.00% in 2022 and 2.60% in 2021.

 • The weighted-average discount rate utilized to determine expense for SLB’s international pension plans was 2.83% in 2022 and 2.38% in 2021.

The expected rate of return for SLB’s retirement benefit plans represents the long-term average rate of return expected to be earned on plan assets based on expectations regarding future rates of return for the portfolio considering the asset allocation and related historical rate of return. The average expected rate of return on plan assets for the United States pension plans was 4.40% in 2022 and 6.60% in 2021. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the international pension plans was 5.05% in 2022 and 6.73% in 2021. A lower expected rate of return increases pension expense.

The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for SLB’s United States and international pension plans:

(Stated in millions)
--------------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------------- -
 Effect on
 Effect on 2022 Dec. 31, 2022
Change in Assumption Pretax Expense Obligation
25 basis point decrease in discount rate +$31 +$334
25 basis point increase in discount rate -$30 -$321
25 basis point decrease in expected return on plan assets +$38 -
25 basis point increase in expected return on plan assets -$38 -

The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for SLB’s United States postretirement medical plans:

(Stated in millions)
---------------------------------------- -------------- -------------
 Effect on
 Effect on 2022 Dec. 31, 2022
Change in Assumption Pretax Expense Obligation
25 basis point decrease in discount rate -$3 +$23
25 basis point increase in discount rate +$3 -$22

26

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[PART II

Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Exhibit 95 to this Form 10-K]:
[Reference to Exhibit 95]

[is included in Exhibit 95]:
[Reference to Exhibit 95]
