================================================================================
CIK: 0000096943
Company Name: TELEFLEX INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 12:29:53
================================================================================

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview
We are a global provider of medical technology products focused on enhancing clinical benefits, improving

30

patient and provider safety and reducing total procedural costs. We primarily design, develop, manufacture and supply medical devices used by hospitals and healthcare providers for common diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in critical care and surgical applications. Approximately 95% of our net revenues come from single-use medical devices. We market and sell our products worldwide through a combination of our direct sales force and distributors. Because our products are used in numerous markets and for a variety of procedures, we are not dependent upon any one end-market or procedure. We are focused on achieving consistent, sustainable and profitable growth by increasing our market share and improving our operating efficiencies.
We evaluate our portfolio of products and businesses on an ongoing basis to ensure alignment with our overall objectives. Based on our evaluation, we may seek to optimize utilization of our facilities through restructuring initiatives designed to further reduce our cost base and enhance our competitive position. In addition, we may continue to explore opportunities to expand the size of our business and improve our margins through a combination of acquisitions and distributor to direct sales conversions, which generally involve our elimination of a distributor from the sales channel, either by acquiring the distributor or terminating the distributor relationship (in some instances, particularly in Asia, the conversions involve our acquisition or termination of a master distributor and the continued sale of our products through sub-distributors). Our distributor to direct sales conversions are designed to facilitate improved product pricing and more direct access to the end users of our products within the sales channel. Further, we may identify opportunities to expand our margins through strategic divestitures of existing businesses and product lines that no longer meet our objectives.
Acquisitions
On June 13, 2022, we acquired a privately-owned catheter company for an initial cash payment of $22.8 million. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, we may become obligated to make additional cash payments of up to $26.2 million if certain commercial and revenue goals are met. The acquisition, which complements our interventional product portfolio, principally consisted of a proprietary catheter design and other related intellectual property.
On September 27, 2022, we completed the acquisition of Standard Bariatrics, Inc., a privately-held medical device company that commercialized a powered stapling technology for bariatric surgery that complements our surgical product portfolio. The fair value of consideration transferred was $211.8 million, which included cash payments of $173.0 million and $38.8 million in estimated fair value of contingent consideration. The contingent consideration liability represents the estimated fair value of our obligations, under the acquisition agreement, to make three milestone payments up to $130 million, in aggregate, if certain commercial milestones are met. The acquisition was financed using borrowings under our revolving credit facility and cash on hand. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information.
Divestiture
On May 15, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell certain product lines within our global respiratory product portfolio to Medline for consideration of $286.0 million, reduced by $12 million in working capital not transferring to Medline (the "Respiratory business divestiture"). In connection with the Respiratory business divestiture, we also entered into several ancillary agreements with Medline to help facilitate the transfer of the business, which provide for transition support, quality, supply and manufacturing services, including a manufacturing and supply transition agreement (the "MSTA").
On June 28, 2021, we completed the initial phase of the Respiratory business divestiture, pursuant to which we received cash proceeds of $259 million. The second phase of the Respiratory business divestiture will occur once we transfer certain additional manufacturing assets to Medline. Our receipt of $15.0 million in additional cash proceeds is contingent upon the transfer of these manufacturing assets and is expected to occur prior to the end of 2023. We plan to recognize the contingent consideration, and any gain on sale resulting from the second phase of the divestiture, when it becomes realizable.
Economic factors impacting our business
The residual effects from the COVID-19 pandemic continue to impact global economic conditions, which have affected our financial results and global operations, as well as our contractors, suppliers, customers and other business partners. Consequently, we have experienced increased levels of overall cost inflation and challenges within our supply chain. Constraints on the supply of specific raw materials used to manufacture our products have and continue to impact delivery times and have resulted in an increased level of backorders. Moreover, pandemic related measures, as well as staffing shortages at healthcare facilities stemming from the pandemic, have and

31

continue to result in varying levels of reduced demand within certain of our segments and product lines due to lower elective procedure volumes compared to pre-pandemic levels.
We continue to monitor the macro-economic impacts stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as ongoing geopolitical conflicts, that have contributed to material and services inflation and exchange rate volatility, as well as trade and tariff activity.
We believe that the impacts stemming from the factors discussed above will continue to affect our business, and consequentially our financial position, results of operations and liquidity, particularly in the near term, and that such impact would be most significant if COVID-19 becomes more prevalent or geopolitical conflicts escalate. As a result of the dynamic nature of each of these factors, we cannot accurately predict the extent or duration of the impacts on our business.

Results of Operations
As used in this discussion, "new products" are products for which commercial sales have commenced within the past 36 months, and “existing products” are products for which commercial sales commenced more than 36 months ago. Discussion of results of operations items that reference the effect of one or more acquired businesses (except as noted below with respect to acquired distributors) generally reflects the impact of the acquisitions within the first 12 months following the date of the acquisition. In addition to increases and decreases in the per unit selling prices of our products to our customers, our discussion of the impact of product price increases and decreases also reflects the impact on the pricing of our products resulting from any elimination of distributors, either through acquisition or termination of the distributor, from the sales channel. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in millions unless otherwise noted.
For a discussion of our results of operations comparison for 2021 and 2020, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 filed on March 1, 2022.
Comparison of 2022 and 2021
Revenues

------------ ---- ------- ---- - -------
 2022 2021
Net Revenues $ 2,791.0 $ 2,809.6

Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased by $18.6 million, or 0.7%, compared to the prior year, primarily due to a $124.5 million decrease in sales volumes of existing products, $97.0 million of unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, a net decrease in sales volumes attributed to the Respiratory business divestiture. The decreases in revenue were partially offset by a $184.9 million increase in sales of new products and price increases.
Gross profit

---------------------- ---- ------- ---- ---- - -------
 2022 2021

Gross profit $ 1,531.1 $ 1,549.6
Percentage of revenues 54.9 % 55.2 %

For the year ended December 31, 2022, gross margin decreased 30 basis points, or 0.5%, compared to the prior year period primarily due to continued cost inflation from macro-economic factors, specifically, logistics and distribution, raw materials and labor costs, partially offset by price increases and favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
Selling, general and administrative

----------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- - -----
 2022 2021

Selling, general and administrative $ 863.7 $ 860.1
Percentage of revenues 30.9 % 30.6 %

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to higher sales and marketing expenses across certain of our product portfolios, higher IT related costs, including support services, and operating expenses incurred by acquired businesses, primarily Standard Bariatrics. The increases in selling, general and administrative costs were partially offset by favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

32

Research and development

------------------------ ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2022 2021

Research and development $ 153.8 $ 130.8
Percentage of revenues 5.5 % 4.7 %

Research and development expenses increased $23.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to European Union Medical Device Regulation ("EU MDR") related costs and higher project spend within certain of our product portfolios.
Restructuring and impairment charges
2022 Restructuring plan
On November 15, 2022, we initiated a strategic restructuring plan designed to improve operating performance and position the organization to deliver long-term durable growth by creating efficiencies that align with our high growth strategic objectives (the “2022 restructuring plan”). The plan primarily involves the relocation of certain manufacturing operations to existing lower-cost locations in addition to the streamlining of various business functions across the organization and related workforce reductions. These actions are expected to be substantially completed during 2023.
We estimate that we will incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring and restructuring related charges in connection with the 2022 restructuring plan of $39 million to $48 million. We estimate that $26 million to $32 million of these charges will result in cash outlays, most of which are expected to be made in 2023. Additionally, we expect to incur approximately $2 million in aggregate capital expenditures under the plan, most of which is expected to be incurred during 2023.
We currently expect to begin realizing plan-related savings in 2023 and expect to achieve annual pre-tax savings of $21 million to $23 million once the plan is fully implemented.
Respiratory divestiture plan
In 2021, in connection with the Respiratory business divestiture, we committed to a restructuring plan designed to separate the manufacturing operations that will be transferred to Medline from those that will remain with Teleflex, which includes related workforce reductions (the “Respiratory divestiture plan”). The plan includes expanding certain of our existing locations to accommodate the transfer of capacity from the sites that will be transferred to Medline and replicating the manufacturing processes at alternate existing locations. We expect this plan will be substantially completed by the end of 2023.
We estimate that we will incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring and restructuring related charges in connection with the Respiratory divestiture plan of $24 million to $30 million and substantially all of these charges will result in cash outlays. Additionally, we expect to incur $22 million to $28 million in aggregate capital expenditures under the plan.
2019 Footprint realignment plan
In February 2019, we initiated a restructuring plan primarily involving the relocation of certain manufacturing operations to existing lower-cost locations and related workforce reductions (the “2019 Footprint realignment plan"). The plan is substantially complete and as a result, we expect future restructuring expenses associated with the plan, if any, to be immaterial.
2018 Footprint realignment plan
In May 2018, we initiated a restructuring plan involving the relocation of certain European manufacturing operations to existing lower-cost locations, the outsourcing of certain European distribution operations and related workforce reductions (the "2018 Footprint realignment plan"). The plan is substantially complete and as a result, we expect future restructuring expenses associated with the plan, if any, to be immaterial.
2014 Footprint realignment plan
In April 2014, we initiated a restructuring plan involving the consolidation of operations and a related reduction in workforce at certain facilities, and the relocation of manufacturing operations from certain higher-cost locations to

33

existing lower-cost locations (the "2014 Footprint realignment plan"). The plan is substantially complete and as a result, we expect future restructuring expenses associated with the plan, if any, to be immaterial.
The following table provides information regarding restructuring charges we have incurred with respect to each of our restructuring programs, as well as impairment charges, for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020. The restructuring charges listed in the table primarily consist of termination benefits.

------------------------------- ----- ---- ---- --- - ----
 2022 2021

2022 Restructuring plan $ 15.5 $ —
Respiratory divestiture plan 0.6 2.7
2021 Restructuring plan — 7.4

2019 Footprint realignment plan (1.0) 0.3
2018 Footprint realignment plan 2.1 2.5

Other restructuring programs 1.6 2.1
Impairment charges (1) 1.5 6.7
Total $ 20.3 $ 21.7

(1)For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $1.5 million related to our decision to abandon certain assets. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $6.7 million related to our decision to abandon intellectual property and other assets primarily associated with our respiratory product portfolio that was not transferred to Medline as part of the Respiratory business divestiture.
Interest expense

--------------------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- --- - ----
 2022 2021

Interest expense $ 54.3 $ 57.0
Average interest rate on debt during the year 2.8 % 2.2 %

The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year was primarily due to a decrease in average debt outstanding, partially offset by a higher average interest rate resulting from increases in interest rates associated with our variable interest rate debt instruments.
Gain on sale of assets and business

----------------------------------- ---- --- ---- - ----
 2022 2021

Gain on sale of assets and business $ 6.5 $ 91.2

During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized a gain related to a sale of a building. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a gain related to the Respiratory business divestiture.
Loss on extinguishment of debt

------------------------------ ---- --- ---- - ----
 2022 2021

Loss on extinguishment of debt $ 0.5 $ 13.0

During the year ended December 31, 2022 we recognized a $0.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt due to the write off of unamortized deferring financing costs related to the amendment of our senior credit facility. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we prepaid the $400 million aggregate outstanding principal amount under our 4.875% Senior Notes due 2026 (the "2026 Notes"). In addition to the prepayment of principal, we paid to the holders of the 2026 Notes a $9.8 million prepayment make-whole amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We recorded the prepayment make-whole amount and a $3.2 million write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs as a loss on extinguishment of debt.
Taxes on income from continuing operations

------------------------- ---- - ---- ---- -
 2022 2021
Effective income tax rate 18.6 % 13.3 %

The effective income tax rate for 2022 reflects tax expense resulting from a deferred charge relating to the 2022 Restructuring Plan and tax expense resulting from a U.S. law effective in 2022 requiring capitalization of certain research and development expenditures. The effective income tax rate for 2021 reflects tax expense associated with the Respiratory business divestiture. Additionally, the effective tax rates for both 2022 and 2021 reflect a net

34

excess tax benefit related to share-based compensation and a tax benefit from research and development tax credits.
On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law, which, among other things, implemented a 15% minimum tax on book income of certain large corporations. We continue to evaluate the impact the law will have on consolidated results of operations, but it is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
In December 2022, the EU adopted a directive that requires each EU Member State to enact national legislation establishing a 15% global minimum tax that is required to become effective in 2024. Although specific provisions of the proposed future laws of the individual Member States are not fully known at this time, we anticipate that potential enactments of these laws by the Member States could impact our tax obligations in future periods.

Segment Results
Segment Net Revenues

-------------------- ---------------------- ------- ---- ----- --------------------- ------- ------------ ----- -----
 Year Ended December 31 % Increase/(Decrease)
 2022 2021 2022 vs 2021

Americas $ 1,653.7 $ 1,659.3 (0.3)
EMEA 558.4 606.8 (8.0)
Asia 306.3 297.8 2.9
OEM 272.6 245.7 11.0
Segment Net Revenues $ 2,791.0 $ 2,809.6 (0.7)

Segment Operating Profit

---------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ---- --------------------- ----- ------------ ------ -----
 Year Ended December 31, % Increase/(Decrease)
 2022 2021 2022 vs 2021

Americas $ 452.0 $ 424.2 6.6
EMEA 42.5 94.9 (55.2)
Asia 82.8 84.6 (2.2)
OEM 65.4 56.2 16.3
Segment Operating Profit (1) $ 642.7 $ 659.9 (2.6)

(1)See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a reconciliation of segment operating profit to our consolidated income from continuing operations before interest, loss on extinguishment of debt and taxes.
Americas
Americas net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased $5.6 million, or 0.3%, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to a $192.9 million decrease in sales volume of existing products and, to a lesser extent, a net decrease in sales volumes attributed to the Respiratory business divestiture. The decreases in revenue were partially offset by a $175.1 million increase in sales of new products and price increases.
Americas operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $27.8 million, or 6.6%, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to lower performance related employee-benefit expenses, a decrease in contingent consideration expense and lower general and administrative expenses. The increases in operating profit were partially offset by higher sales and marketing expenses across certain of our product portfolios.
EMEA
EMEA net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased $48.4 million, or 8.0%, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to $63.9 million of unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by an increase in sales volumes of existing products.
EMEA operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased $52.4 million, or 55.2%, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and an increase in EU MDR costs within research and development.

35

In 2015, the Italian parliament enacted legislation that, among other things, imposed a “payback” measure on medical device companies that supply goods and services to the Italian National Healthcare System. Under the measure, companies are required to make payments to the Italian government if medical device expenditures in a given year exceed regional expenditure ceilings established for that year. The payment amounts are calculated based on the amount by which the regional ceilings for the given year were exceeded. Considerable uncertainty exists related to the enforceability of and implementation process for the payback law. In response to decrees issued by the Italian Ministry of Health, the various Italian regions issued invoices to medical device companies, including Teleflex, under the payback measure in the fourth quarter of 2022 seeking payment with respect to excess expenditures for the years 2015 through 2018. Following the issuance of the invoices, we and numerous other medical device companies filed appeals with the Italian administrative courts challenging the enforceability of the payback measure, which appeals remain pending. As of December 31, 2022, our reserve for this matter is $10.9 million, $2.6 million of which was recorded as a reduction of revenue for 2022. If the payback was to ultimately be enforced in its existing form, we estimate that we would be required to remit payments in excess of our current reserve of up to $23 million.
Asia
Asia net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $8.5 million, or 2.9%, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to a $30.1 million increase in sales volumes of existing products, partially offset by $23.7 million of unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
Asia operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased $1.8 million, or 2.2%, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and a benefit recognized in the prior year resulting from the reversal of a contingent liability related to tariffs imposed by Chinese authorities, which is described in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, partially offset by an increase in gross profit resulting from higher sales.
OEM
OEM net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $26.9 million, or 11.0% compared to the prior year which was primarily attributable to a $21.7 million increase in sales volumes of existing products and price increases, partially offset by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
OEM operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $9.2 million, or 16.3%, compared to the prior year, which was primarily attributable to an increase in gross profit resulting from higher sales volume, partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. Our principal source of liquidity is our cash flows provided by operating activities. Our cash flows provided by operating activities are reduced by cash used to, among other things, fulfill contractual obligations for minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases, which often extend beyond one year; the weighted average remaining lease term of our operating lease portfolio is 7.9 years. Our cash flows provided by operating activities are also reduced by cash used for unconditional legally binding commitments to purchase goods or services (i.e., purchase obligations), which are primarily related to inventory expected to be purchased within one year.
Other significant factors that affect our overall management of liquidity include contractual obligations such as scheduled principal and interest payments with respect to outstanding indebtedness and tax on deemed repatriation of non-U.S. earnings, which will be paid annually over the next three years. We may also be obligated to make payments for contingent consideration due to past acquisitions, the timing and amount of which may be uncertain, and the magnitude of which can vary from year to year. Other significant factors that affect our liquidity include certain actions controlled by management such as capital expenditures, acquisitions, and dividends. See Note 10, Note 12 and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
We believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and cash equivalents and borrowings under our revolving credit facility (which is provided for under the Credit Agreement) and accounts receivable securitization facility will enable us to fund our operating requirements, capital expenditures and debt obligations for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future.

36

Of our $292.0 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2022, $256.9 million was held at non-U.S. subsidiaries. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by monitoring the funds available among our subsidiaries and determining the extent to which we can access those funds on a cost effective basis.
We have entered into cross-currency swap agreements with different financial institution counterparties to hedge against the effect of variability in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. Under the terms of the cross-currency swap agreements, we notionally exchanged in the aggregate $750 million for €653.1 million. The swap agreements, which begin to expire in October 2023, are designated as net investment hedges and require an exchange of the notional amounts upon expiration or the earlier termination of the agreements. We and the counterparties have agreed to effect the exchange through a net settlement. As a result, we may be required to pay (or be entitled to receive) an amount equal to the difference, on the expiration or earlier termination dates, between the U.S. dollar equivalent of the €653.1 million notional amount and the $750 million notional amount. If, at the expiration or earlier termination of the swap agreements, the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate has increased or declined by 10% from the rate in effect at the inception of these agreements, we would receive from or be required to pay to the counterparties an aggregate of approximately $75.0 million in respect of the notional settlement. As of December 31, 2022, we had $48.5 million in current assets and $11.9 million in non-current assets related to the fair value of our cross-currency swap agreements. The swap agreements entail risk that the counterparties will not fulfill their obligations under the agreements. However, we believe the risk is reduced because we have entered into separate agreements with different counterparties, all of which are large, well-established financial institutions.
We may at any time, from time to time, repurchase our outstanding debt securities in open market purchases, via tender offers or in privately negotiated transactions, exchange transactions or otherwise, at such price or prices as we deem appropriate. Such purchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors and may be commenced or suspended at any time.
Summarized Financial Information – Obligor Group
The 2027 Notes are issued by Teleflex Incorporated (the “Parent Company”), and payment of the Parent Company's obligations under the 2027 Notes is guaranteed, jointly and severally, by an enumerated group of the Parent Company’s subsidiaries (each, a “Guarantor Subsidiary” and collectively, the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”). The guarantees are full and unconditional, subject to certain customary release provisions. Each Guarantor Subsidiary is directly or indirectly 100% owned by the Parent Company. Summarized financial information for the Parent and Guarantor Subsidiaries (collectively, the “Obligor Group”) as of and for the year ended December 31, 2022 as follows:

--------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------------ -------------------------------------- - ----- - -------
 Year Ended December 31, 2022

 Obligor Group Intercompany Obligor Group (excluding intercompany)
Net revenue $ 1,983.0 $ 196.5 $ 1,786.5
Cost of goods sold 1,208.6 323.3 885.3
Gross profit 774.4 (126.8) 901.2
Income from continuing operations 292.7 125.4 167.3
Net income 292.4 125.4 167.0

------------------------- ----------------- ------------ -------------------------------------- - ------- - -----
 December 31, 2022

 Obligor Group Intercompany Obligor Group (excluding intercompany)
Total current assets $ 878.3 $ 110.5 $ 767.8
Total assets 3,420.3 1,510.9 1,909.4
Total current liabilities 882.9 627.9 255.0
Total liabilities 3,168.0 712.3 2,455.7

The same accounting policies as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 are used by the Parent Company and each of its subsidiaries in connection with the summarized financial information presented above. The Intercompany column in the table above represents transactions between and among the Obligor Group and non-guarantor subsidiaries (i.e., those subsidiaries of the Parent Company that have not guaranteed payment of the 2027 Notes). Obligor

37

investments in non-guarantor subsidiaries and any related activity are excluded from the financial information presented above.
See "Financing Arrangements" below as well as Note 10 and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to our borrowings and financial instruments.

Cash Flows
The following table provides a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented:

------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------- ---- ------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021

Cash flows from continuing operations provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 342.8 $ 652.1
Investing activities (259.4) 156.7
Financing activities (217.5) (715.8)
Cash flows provided by (used in) discontinued operations 0.8 (0.7)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (19.8) (23.1)
(Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (153.1) $ 69.2

Cash Flow from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $342.8 million during 2022, and $652.1 million during 2021. The $309.3 million decrease was primarily attributable to less favorable operating results and unfavorable changes in working capital. The unfavorable change in working capital was primarily attributable to a decrease in income taxes due to higher tax payments, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, primarily due to higher payroll and benefit related payments, and an increase in inventories due to purchases to maintain customer service levels during a period of elevated global supply chain volatility.
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $259.4 million during 2022, primarily consisted of $198.4 million in net payments for businesses and intangibles acquired and $79.2 million of capital expenditures.
Cash Flow from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $217.5 million during 2022, which primarily consisted of a net reduction in borrowings of $140.3 million resulting from payments made against our senior credit facility and $63.8 million in dividend payments.
For a discussion of our cash flow comparison for 2021 and 2020, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 filed on March 1, 2022.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure and is calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations. This financial measure is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure to investors because it facilitates an assessment of funds available to satisfy current and future obligations, pay dividends and fund acquisitions. We also use this financial measure for internal managerial purposes and to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Free cash flow is not a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since we have certain non-discretionary obligations, such as debt service, that are not deducted from the measure. We strongly encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure.

38

-------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- - -----
 2022 2021

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 342.8 $ 652.1
Less: Capital expenditures 79.2 71.6
Free cash flow $ 263.6 $ 580.5

Financing Arrangements

The following table provides our net debt to total capital ratio:

------------------------------------ ------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
 2022 2021

Net debt includes:
Current borrowings $ 87.5 $ 110.0
Long-term borrowings 1,624.0 1,740.1

Unamortized debt issuance costs 11.8 13.4
Total debt 1,723.3 1,863.5
Less: Cash and cash equivalents 292.0 445.1
Net debt 1,431.3 1,418.4
Total capital includes:
Net debt 1,431.3 1,418.4
Shareholders’ equity 4,022.0 3,754.7
Total capital $ 5,453.3 $ 5,173.1
Percent of net debt to total capital 26.2 % 27.4 %

Fixed rate debt comprised 58.0% and 53.7% of total debt at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in fixed rate borrowings as a percentage of total borrowings as of December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year was due to payments made on our senior credit facility.
Senior credit facility
On November 4, 2022, we amended and restated our existing credit agreement by entering into a Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) which provides for a five-year revolving credit facility of $1.0 billion and a term loan facility of $500.0 million. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed (subject to certain exceptions and limitations) by substantially all of our material domestic subsidiaries. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, by a lien on substantially all of the assets owned by us and each guarantor. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility and the term loan facility under the Credit Agreement is November 4, 2027.
At our option, loans under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate equal to adjusted Term SOFR plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.125% to 2.00% or at an alternate base rate, which is defined as the highest of (i) the “Prime Rate” in the U.S. last quoted by The Wall Street Journal, (ii) 0.50% above the greater of the federal funds rate and the rate comprised of both overnight federal funds and overnight eurodollar transactions denominated in Dollars and (iii) 1.00% above the Term SOFR Rate for a one month interest period, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.125% to 1.00%, in each case subject to adjustments based on our total net leverage ratio. Overdue loans will bear interest at the rate otherwise applicable to such loans plus 2.00%.
At December 31, 2022, we had $148.3 million in borrowings outstanding and $0.9 million in outstanding standby letters of credit under our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and covenants that, in each case, subject to certain exceptions, qualifications and thresholds, (a) place limitations on us and our subsidiaries regarding the incurrence of additional indebtedness, additional liens, fundamental changes, dispositions of property, investments and acquisitions, dividends and other restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, restrictive agreements, changes in lines of business and swap agreements, and (b) require us and our subsidiaries to comply with sanction laws and other laws and agreements, to deliver financial information and certain other information and give notice of certain events, to maintain their existence and good standing, to pay their other obligations, to permit the administrative agent and the lenders to inspect their books and property, to use the proceeds of the Credit Agreement only for certain permitted purposes and to provide collateral in the future. Subject to certain exceptions,

39

we are required to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio of 4.50 to 1.00. We are further required to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.50 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
2027 and 2028 Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2022, the outstanding principal amount of our 2027 Notes and 2028 Notes (collectively the "Senior Notes") was $500 million, respectively. The indenture governing the Senior Notes contains covenants that, among other things among other things and subject to certain exceptions, limit or restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to create liens; consolidate, merge or dispose of certain assets; and enter into sale leaseback transactions. The obligations under the Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by each of our existing and future 100% owned domestic subsidiaries that are a guarantor or other obligor under the Credit Agreement and by certain of our other 100% owned domestic subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all of the terms of our Senior Notes.
Accounts receivable securitization
We have an accounts receivable securitization facility under which we sell an undivided interest in domestic accounts receivable for consideration of up to $75 million to a commercial paper conduit. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we borrowed the maximum amount available of $75 million under this facility. This facility is utilized to provide increased flexibility in funding short term working capital requirements. The agreement governing the accounts receivable securitization facility contains certain covenants and termination events. An occurrence of an event of default or a termination event under this facility may give rise to the right of our counterparty to terminate this facility. As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the covenants and none of the termination events had occurred.
For additional information regarding our indebtedness, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from the amounts derived from those estimates and assumptions.
We have identified the following as critical accounting estimates, which are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, are the most pervasive and important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. The following discussion should be considered in conjunction with the description of our accounting policies in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Inventory Utilization
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Factors utilized in the determination of estimated net realizable value and whether a reserve is required include (i) current sales data and historical return rates, (ii) estimates of future demand, (iii) competitive pricing pressures, (iv) new product introductions, (v) product expiration dates, and (vi) component and packaging obsolescence.
We review the net realizable value of inventory each reporting period and adjust as necessary.  We regularly compare inventory quantities on hand against historical usage or forecasts related to specific items in order to evaluate obsolescence and excessive quantities. In assessing historical usage, we also qualitatively assess business trends to evaluate the reasonableness of using historical information in estimating future usage. Our inventory reserve was $47.1 million and $42.7 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Long-Lived Assets
We assess the remaining useful life and recoverability of long-lived assets whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. For example, such an assessment may be initiated if, as a result of a change in expectations, we believe it is more likely than not that the asset will be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its useful life or if an adverse change occurs in the business employing the

40

asset. Significant judgments in this area involve determining whether such events or circumstances have occurred and determining the appropriate asset group requiring evaluation. The recoverability evaluation is based on various analyses, including undiscounted cash flow projections, which involve significant management judgment. Any impairment loss, if indicated, equals the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Intangible assets include indefinite-lived assets (such as goodwill, certain trade names and in-process research and development ("IPR&D")), as well as finite-lived intangibles (such as trade names that do not have indefinite lives, customer relationships, intellectual property, distribution rights and non-competition agreements) and are, generally, obtained through acquisition. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value and we allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination to goodwill. Considerable management judgment is necessary in making the assumptions used in the estimated fair value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
The costs of finite-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their estimated useful life. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset requires considerable judgment as different types of intangible assets typically will have different useful lives. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized; we test these assets annually for impairment during the fourth quarter, using the first day of the quarter as the measurement date, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances that indicate an impairment may have occurred. Such conditions may include an economic downturn in a geographic market or a change in the assessment of future operations.
Goodwill
Goodwill impairment assessments are performed at a reporting unit level. For purposes of this assessment, our reporting units are our operating segments, or, in certain cases, a business one level below our operating segments. As the fair values of our reporting units are more likely than not greater than the carrying values, no impairment was recorded as a result of the annual goodwill impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2022.
In applying the goodwill impairment test, we may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Qualitative factors may include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry conditions, the competitive environment, changes in the market for our products and services, regulatory and political developments, and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance. If, after completing the qualitative assessment, we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we proceed to a quantitative impairment test described below. Alternatively, we may test goodwill for impairment through the quantitative impairment test without conducting the qualitative analysis.
Under a quantitative impairment test we compare the fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying value. We calculate the fair value of the reporting unit using a combination of two methods; one which estimates the discounted cash flows of the reporting unit based on projected earnings in the future (the Income Approach) and one which is based on revenue and EBITDA of similar businesses to those of the reporting unit in actual transactions (the Market Approach). If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, there is no impairment. If the reporting unit carrying value exceeds the fair value, we recognize an impairment loss based on the amount the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value.
The more significant judgments and assumptions in determining fair value using in the Income Approach include (1) the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, which are based primarily on our estimates of future sales, operating income, industry trends and the regulatory environment of the individual reporting units, (2) the expected long-term growth rates for each of our reporting units, which approximate the expected long-term growth rate of the global economy and of the medical device industry, and (3) the discount rates that are used to estimate the present value of the future cash flows, which are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units along with various market based inputs. The more significant judgments and assumptions used in the Market Approach include (1) determination of appropriate revenue and EBITDA multiples used to estimate a reporting unit’s fair value and (2) the selection of appropriate comparable companies to be used for purposes of determining those multiples. There were no changes to the underlying methods used in 2022 as compared to the valuations of our reporting units in the past several years.
Our expected future growth rates estimated for purposes of the goodwill impairment test are based on our estimates of future sales, operating income and cash flow and are consistent with our internal budgets and business

41

plans, which reflect a modest amount of core revenue growth coupled with the successful launch of new products each year; the effect of these growth indicators more than offset volume losses from products that are expected to reach the end of their life cycle. Changes in assumptions underlying the Income Approach could cause a reporting unit's carrying value to exceed its fair value. While we believe our assumed growth rates of sales and cash flows are reasonable, the possibility remains that the revenue growth of a reporting unit may not be as high as expected, and, as a result, the estimated fair value of that reporting unit may decline. In this regard, if our strategy and new products are not successful and we do not achieve anticipated core revenue growth in the future with respect to a reporting unit, the goodwill in the reporting unit may become impaired and, in such case, we may incur material impairment charges. Moreover, changes in revenue and EBITDA multiples in actual transactions from those historically present could result in an assessment that a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, in which case we also may incur material impairment charges.
Other Intangible Assets

Intangible assets are assets acquired that lack physical substance and that meet the specified criteria for recognition apart from goodwill. Management tests indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Similar to the goodwill impairment test process, we may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value. If, after completing the qualitative assessment, we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its carrying amount, the asset is not impaired. If we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than the carrying value, we then proceed to a quantitative impairment test, which consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying amount. Alternatively, we may elect to forgo the qualitative analysis and test the indefinite-lived intangible asset for impairment through the quantitative impairment test.
In connection with intangible assets acquired in a business combination and quantitative impairment tests, we determine the estimated fair value using various methods under the Income Approach. The more significant judgments and assumptions used in the valuation of intangible assets may include revenue growth rates, royalty rate, discount rate, attrition rate, and EBITDA margin. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly impact the value of the intangible asset.
We did not record any impairment charges related to intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $6.7 million related to our decision to abandon intellectual property and other assets primarily associated with our respiratory product portfolio that were not transferred to Medline as part of the Respiratory business divestiture. See "Restructuring and impairment charges" within "Result of Operations" above as well as Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on these charges.
Contingent Consideration Liabilities

In connection with an acquisition, we may be required to pay future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified objectives, such as receipt of regulatory approval, commercialization of a product or achievement of sales targets. In a business combination, we record a contingent liability, as of the acquisition date, representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration we expect to pay. We determined the fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities related to the Standard Bariatrics acquisition, which represented most of our contingent consideration liabilities at December 31, 2022, using a Monte Carlo valuation approach, which simulates future revenues during the earn out-period using management's best estimates. We determined the fair value of our other contingent consideration liabilities using a discounted cash flow analysis. Significant judgment is required in determining the assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the contingent consideration. Increases in projected revenues and probabilities of payment may result in significantly higher fair value measurements; decreases in these items may have the opposite effect. Increases in discount rates in the periods prior to payment may result in significantly lower fair value measurements; decreases may have the opposite effect. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
We remeasure our contingent consideration liabilities each reporting period and recognize the change in the liabilities' fair value within selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statement of income. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we accrued $44.0 million and $9.8 million of contingent consideration, respectively, related to completed business combinations.

42

If the transaction is determined to be an asset acquisition rather than a business combination, a contingent consideration liability is recognized when the specified objective is deemed probable and is estimable.
Income Taxes
Our annual provision for income taxes and determination of the deferred tax assets and liabilities require management to assess uncertainties, make judgments regarding outcomes and utilize estimates. The difficulties inherent in such assessments, judgments and estimates are particularly challenging because we conduct a broad range of operations around the world, subjecting us to complex tax regulations in numerous international jurisdictions. As a result, we are at times subject to tax audits, disputes with tax authorities and potential litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. In connection with its estimates of our tax assets and liabilities, management must, among other things, make judgments about the outcome of these uncertain matters.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured and recorded using currently enacted tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their tax bases are recovered or settled. The likelihood of a material change in our expected realization of these assets is dependent on future taxable income, our ability to use foreign tax credit carryforwards and carrybacks, final U.S. and non-U.S. tax settlements, changes in tax law, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies in the various relevant jurisdictions. While management believes that its judgments and interpretations regarding income taxes are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience may require future adjustments to our tax assets and liabilities, which could be material.
In assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets, we evaluate positive and negative evidence and use judgments regarding past and future events, including results of operations and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax assets. Based on this assessment, we determine when it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets may not be realized, in which case we apply a valuation allowance to offset the amount of such deferred tax assets. To the extent facts and circumstances change in the future, adjustments to the valuation allowances may be required. The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $91.5 million and $143.2 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. We establish additional provisions for income taxes when, despite the belief that tax positions are supportable, there remain certain positions that do not meet the minimum probability threshold, which is a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority. In the normal course of business, we are examined by various federal, state and non-U.S. tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in any period in which we become aware of facts that necessitate an adjustment. We are currently under examination in Ireland. Germany and France. The ultimate outcome of these examinations could result in increases or decreases to our recorded tax liabilities, which would affect our financial results. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our uncertain tax positions.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, including estimated effects, if any, of the adoption of those standards on our consolidated financial statements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

["). The plan is substantially complete and as a result, we expect future restructuring expenses associated with the plan, if any, to be immaterial.
The following table provides information regarding restructuring charges we have incurred with respect to each of our restructuring programs, as well as impairment charges, for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020. The restructuring charges listed in the table primarily consist of termination benefits.

------------------------------- ----- ---- ---- --- - ----
 2022 2021

2022 Restructuring plan $ 15.5 $ —
Respiratory divestiture plan 0.6 2.7
2021 Restructuring plan — 7.4

2019 Footprint realignment plan (1.0) 0.3
2018 Footprint realignment plan 2.1 2.5

Other restructuring programs 1.6 2.1
Impairment charges (1) 1.5 6.7
Total $ 20.3 $ 21.7

(1)For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded impairment charges of $1.5 million related to our decision to abandon certain assets. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded impairment charges of $6.7 million related to our decision to abandon intellectual property and other assets primarily associated with our respiratory product portfolio that was not transferred to Medline as part of the Respiratory business divestiture.
Interest expense

--------------------------------------------- ---- ---- ---- --- - ----
 2022 2021

Interest expense $ 54.3 $ 57.0
Average interest rate on debt during the year 2.8 % 2.2 %

The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year was primarily due to a decrease in average debt outstanding, partially offset by a higher average interest rate resulting from increases in interest rates associated with our variable interest rate debt instruments.
Gain on sale of assets and business

----------------------------------- ---- --- ---- - ----
 2022 2021

Gain on sale of assets and business $ 6.5 $ 91.2

During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized a gain related to a sale of a building. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a gain related to the Respiratory business divestiture.
Loss on extinguishment of debt

------------------------------ ---- --- ---- - ----
 2022 2021

Loss on extinguishment of debt $ 0.5 $ 13.0

During the year ended December 31, 2022 we recognized a $0.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt due to the write off of unamortized deferring financing costs related to the amendment of our senior credit facility. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we prepaid the $400 million aggregate outstanding principal amount under our 4.875% Senior Notes due 2026 (the "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[" above as well as Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on these charges.
Contingent Consideration Liabilities

In connection with an acquisition, we may be required to pay future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified objectives, such as receipt of regulatory approval, commercialization of a product or achievement of sales targets. In a business combination, we record a contingent liability, as of the acquisition date, representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration we expect to pay. We determined the fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities related to the Standard Bariatrics acquisition, which represented most of our contingent consideration liabilities at December 31, 2022, using a Monte Carlo valuation approach, which simulates future revenues during the earn out-period using management']:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[" below as well as Note 10 and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to our borrowings and financial instruments.

Cash Flows
The following table provides a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented:

------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------- ---- ------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
 2022 2021

Cash flows from continuing operations provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 342.8 $ 652.1
Investing activities (259.4) 156.7
Financing activities (217.5) (715.8)
Cash flows provided by (used in) discontinued operations 0.8 (0.7)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (19.8) (23.1)
(Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (153.1) $ 69.2

Cash Flow from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $342.8 million during 2022, and $652.1 million during 2021. The $309.3 million decrease was primarily attributable to less favorable operating results and unfavorable changes in working capital. The unfavorable change in working capital was primarily attributable to a decrease in income taxes due to higher tax payments, a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, primarily due to higher payroll and benefit related payments, and an increase in inventories due to purchases to maintain customer service levels during a period of elevated global supply chain volatility.
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $259.4 million during 2022, primarily consisted of $198.4 million in net payments for businesses and intangibles acquired and $79.2 million of capital expenditures.
Cash Flow from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $217.5 million during 2022, which primarily consisted of a net reduction in borrowings of $140.3 million resulting from payments made against our senior credit facility and $63.8 million in dividend payments.
For a discussion of our cash flow comparison for 2021 and 2020, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 filed on March 1, 2022.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure and is calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations. This financial measure is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or GAAP, and should not be considered a substitute for net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Management believes that free cash flow is a useful measure to investors because it facilitates an assessment of funds available to satisfy current and future obligations, pay dividends and fund acquisitions. We also use this financial measure for internal managerial purposes and to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Free cash flow is not a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since we have certain non-discretionary obligations, such as debt service, that are not deducted from the measure. We strongly encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure.

38

-------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- - -----
 2022 2021

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 342.8 $ 652.1
Less: Capital expenditures 79.2 71.6
Free cash flow $ 263.6 $ 580.5

Financing Arrangements

The following table provides our net debt to total capital ratio:

------------------------------------ ------- ------- ---- ------- - -------
 2022 2021

Net debt includes:
Current borrowings $ 87.5 $ 110.0
Long-term borrowings 1,624.0 1,740.1

Unamortized debt issuance costs 11.8 13.4
Total debt 1,723.3 1,863.5
Less: Cash and cash equivalents 292.0 445.1
Net debt 1,431.3 1,418.4
Total capital includes:
Net debt 1,431.3 1,418.4
Shareholders’ equity 4,022.0 3,754.7
Total capital $ 5,453.3 $ 5,173.1
Percent of net debt to total capital 26.2 % 27.4 %

Fixed rate debt comprised 58.0% and 53.7% of total debt at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in fixed rate borrowings as a percentage of total borrowings as of December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year was due to payments made on our senior credit facility.
Senior credit facility
On November 4, 2022, we amended and restated our existing credit agreement by entering into a Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) which provides for a five-year revolving credit facility of $1.0 billion and a term loan facility of $500.0 million. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed (subject to certain exceptions and limitations) by substantially all of our material domestic subsidiaries. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, by a lien on substantially all of the assets owned by us and each guarantor. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility and the term loan facility under the Credit Agreement is November 4, 2027.
At our option, loans under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate equal to adjusted Term SOFR plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.125% to 2.00% or at an alternate base rate, which is defined as the highest of (i) the “Prime Rate” in the U.S. last quoted by The Wall Street Journal, (ii) 0.50% above the greater of the federal funds rate and the rate comprised of both overnight federal funds and overnight eurodollar transactions denominated in Dollars and (iii) 1.00% above the Term SOFR Rate for a one month interest period, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.125% to 1.00%, in each case subject to adjustments based on our total net leverage ratio. Overdue loans will bear interest at the rate otherwise applicable to such loans plus 2.00%.
At December 31, 2022, we had $148.3 million in borrowings outstanding and $0.9 million in outstanding standby letters of credit under our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and covenants that, in each case, subject to certain exceptions, qualifications and thresholds, (a) place limitations on us and our subsidiaries regarding the incurrence of additional indebtedness, additional liens, fundamental changes, dispositions of property, investments and acquisitions, dividends and other restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, restrictive agreements, changes in lines of business and swap agreements, and (b) require us and our subsidiaries to comply with sanction laws and other laws and agreements, to deliver financial information and certain other information and give notice of certain events, to maintain their existence and good standing, to pay their other obligations, to permit the administrative agent and the lenders to inspect their books and property, to use the proceeds of the Credit Agreement only for certain permitted purposes and to provide collateral in the future. Subject to certain exceptions,

39

we are required to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio of 4.50 to 1.00. We are further required to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.50 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
2027 and 2028 Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2022, the outstanding principal amount of our 2027 Notes and 2028 Notes (collectively the "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...
