================================================================================
CIK: 0000055785
Company Name: KIMBERLY CLARK CORP
Filing Date: 2023-02-09
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 09:00:15
================================================================================

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Introduction
This MD&A is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our recent performance, financial condition and prospects. This discussion and analysis compares 2022 results to 2021. For a discussion that compares our 2021 results to 2020, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The reference to "N.M." indicates that the calculation is not meaningful. In addition, we provide commentary regarding organic sales growth, which describes the impact of changes in volume, product mix and net selling prices on net sales. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions and exited businesses also impact the year-over-year change in net sales. Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted.
The following will be discussed and analyzed:
•Overview of Business
•Overview of 2022 Results
•Business Environment and Trends
•Results of Operations and Related Information
•Liquidity and Capital Resources
•Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates
•New Accounting Standards
•Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Throughout this MD&A, we refer to financial measures that have not been calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP, and are therefore referred to as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures include adjusted gross and operating profit, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted other (income) and expense, net, and adjusted effective tax rate. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the financial measures used to evaluate management.
Non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures, and they should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.  There are limitations to these non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded.  We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to the GAAP measures and by providing reconciliations of the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures.
The non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items for the relevant time periods as indicated in the reconciliations included later in this MD&A:
•Pension settlements - In 2022, pension settlement charges were recognized related to lump-sum distributions from pension plan assets exceeding the total of annual service and interest costs resulting in a recognition of deferred actuarial losses.
•Acquisition of controlling interest in Thinx – In the first quarter of 2022, we increased our investment in Thinx. As a result of this transaction, a net benefit was recognized, primarily due to the non-recurring, non-cash gain recognized related to the remeasurement of the carrying value of our previously held equity investment to fair value partially offset by transaction and integration costs. See Item 8, Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details.
•2018 Global Restructuring Program - In 2018, we initiated a restructuring program to reduce our structural cost base by streamlining and simplifying our manufacturing supply chain and overhead organization. The restructuring actions were completed in 2021. See Item 8, Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for details.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 15 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

Overview of Business
We are a global company focused on delivering products and solutions that provide better care for a better world, with manufacturing facilities in 33 countries, including our equity affiliates, and products sold in more than 175 countries and territories. Our products are sold under well-known brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend. We have three reportable business segments: Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and K-C Professional. These business segments are described in greater detail in Item 8, Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
In operating our business, we seek to:
•grow our portfolio of brands through innovation, category development and commercial execution,
•leverage our cost and financial discipline to fund growth and improve margins, and
•allocate capital in value-creating ways.
We describe our business outside North America in two groups – Developing and Emerging Markets ("D&E") and Developed Markets. D&E Markets comprise Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia-Pacific, excluding Australia and South Korea. Developed Markets consist of Western and Central Europe, Australia and South Korea.
On February 24, 2022, we completed our acquisition of a majority and controlling share of Thinx, an industry leader in the reusable period and incontinence underwear category, for total consideration of $181 consisting of cash of $53, the fair value of our previously held equity investment of $127, and certain share-based award costs of $1. See Item 8, Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details.
On October 24, 2022, we entered into an agreement to sell our Neve tissue brand and related consumer and K-C Professional tissue assets in Brazil for $175, subject to certain working capital and other closing adjustments. The transaction also includes a licensing agreement to allow the acquirer to manufacture and market in Brazil the Kleenex, Scott and Wypall brands to consumers and away-from-home customers for a period of time. The transaction is pending customary conditions and regulatory approval and is expected to close in the first half of 2023. The assets included in the sale agreement have been reclassified to Other current assets as of December 31, 2022.
Overview of 2022 Results
•Net sales of $20.2 billion increased 4 percent. Organic sales increased 7 percent, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by 4 percent.
•In North America, organic sales increased 5 percent in consumer products and increased 9 percent in K-C Professional.
•Outside North America, organic sales increased 8 percent in D&E Markets and increased 10 percent in Developed Markets.
•Operating Profit and Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark were $2,681 and $1,934 in 2022, respectively.
•Diluted earnings per share were $5.72 in 2022 compared to $5.35 in 2021. Results in 2022 include pension settlement charges of $0.12 and a net benefit of $0.20 associated with the acquisition of Thinx, primarily due to the non-recurring, non-cash gain recognized related to the remeasurement of the carrying value of our previously held equity investment to fair value partially offset by transaction and integration costs. Results in 2021 include net charges of $0.83 related to the 2018 Global Restructuring Program.
•We continue to focus on generating cash flow and allocating capital to shareholders. Cash provided by operations was $2.7 billion in 2022. We raised our dividend in 2022 by 2 percent, the 50th consecutive annual increase in our dividend. Altogether, share repurchases and dividends in 2022 amounted to $1.7 billion.
In 2023, we plan to continue to execute our strategies for long-term success which include delivering balanced, sustainable growth by growing our brands in-line with or ahead of category growth, leveraging our cost and financial discipline to fund growth and improve margins, and allocating capital in value-creating ways. Our growth strategy is built on two pillars. Elevate our core business is our first pillar and is driven by delivering value-added innovations and driving category opportunities. Expanding our markets is our second pillar and emphasizes Personal Care. Both strategies are enabled by our focus on

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 16 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

accelerating and investing in our commercial capabilities through digital marketing, revenue growth management, consumer-inspired innovation and strong in-market execution.
Our strong legacy of financial discipline supports our growth strategy by driving ongoing supply chain productivity through our FORCE (Focused On Reducing Costs Everywhere) program, controlling discretionary spending, driving down working capital and maintaining the top-tier return on invested capital. Our capital allocation strategy is consistent with our historical approach of disciplined capital spending, payment of a top tier dividend, evaluation of acquisition opportunities and allocation of excess cash flow to share repurchases.
We are subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our business operations and financial results. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for additional information.
Business Environment and Trends
Our results of operations have been, and we expect them to continue to be, affected by the following factors and key trends, which may cause our future results of operations to differ from our historical results discussed under “Results of Operations and Related Information.”
COVID-19 - The macro business environment experienced unprecedented volatility in recent years related to the continuing effect the global COVID-19 pandemic has had on supply and demand dynamics.
We participate in fixed consumption categories where demand is generally very stable. In recent years, our sales have fluctuated, especially in Consumer Tissue and K-C Professional, because of COVID-19-related demand spikes, inventory destocking, and consumer usage pattern disruption. Additionally, consumer incomes have generally been impacted negatively by the pandemic which can impact their purchasing patterns. COVID-19 outbreaks and patterns are difficult to predict.
The pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains across the globe. A steep drop in aggregate demand at the beginning of the pandemic caused aggregate supply to sharply contract. When demand for goods resumed at the end of 2020, supply shortages led to record levels of inflation in commodities and other costs. In addition to inflation, logistics and distribution networks, especially in the U.S., have been severely impacted by container and truck shortages and significant labor supply issues. These effects have caused challenges getting input materials into our production facilities, production delays, and delays and meaningfully higher costs to get products from our production facilities to our customers. The net effect of the global supply chain disruption led to an unprecedented increase in costs in 2022 and 2021. The underlying causes of the disruption and higher costs will take time to be resolved.
Birth Rate Trends - Sales of our baby and child care products are highly correlated with birth rate trends. In recent years, birth rate declines in key countries, including China, South Korea and the U.S., have pressured category volume growth rates. To help mitigate the effects of birth rate declines, we aim to drive sales growth at or ahead of category growth rates through innovation, premiumization, strong brand building plans and digital marketing investment as part of our Elevate and Expand growth strategy.
Competition - Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace. Our competitors include global, regional and local manufacturers, including private label manufacturers which offer products that are typically sold at lower prices. In particular, private label market share has been increasing in the tissue category. Increased purchases of private label products could reduce net sales of our higher-margin products which would negatively impact our profitability. While the global marketplace in which we operate has always been highly competitive, we continue to experience increased concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers, discounters and e-tailers. This market environment has resulted in increased pressure on pricing and other competitive factors, and we expect these pressures to continue in the coming year.
Pricing - Our net sales growth and profitability may be affected as we adjust prices to address market conditions. We adjust our product prices based on a number of variables including demand, the competitive environment, technological improvements and changes in our raw material, distribution, energy and other input costs. We increased our prices in 2022 in response to continuing inflation related to the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and other market conditions, including the war in Ukraine. In 2023, we anticipate challenging market conditions to continue to impact pricing. Price changes may affect net sales, earnings and market share in the near term as the market adjusts to new pricing and other market conditions.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 17 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

Operating Costs - Our operating costs include raw materials, labor, selling, general and administrative expenses, taxes, currency impacts and financing costs. We manage these costs through cost saving and productivity initiatives, sourcing and hedging programs, and pricing actions. To remain competitive on our operating structure, we continue to work on programs to expand our profitability, such as our FORCE program. In 2022, our results were impacted by an unprecedented increase in our costs, particularly for pulp, resin, distribution and energy, primarily related to COVID-19 pandemic driven effects and the effects of the war in Ukraine. We expect the higher cost environment will continue in 2023.
Evolving Consumer Product and Shopping Preferences - The retail landscape in many of our markets continues to evolve due to the rapid growth of eCommerce retailers, changing consumer preferences (as consumers increasingly shop online) and the increased presence of alternative retail channels, such as subscription services and direct-to-consumer businesses. Changing consumer preferences also include increased concerns in regard to post-consumer waste and packaging materials and their impact on environmental sustainability. If we experience lower sales due to changes in consumer demand for our products, our earnings could decrease. We believe our strategic growth focus, sustainability initiatives and continued investment in eCommerce capabilities has us well positioned relative to these changing dynamics.
Volatility of Global Markets - Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations, including in D&E Markets. Some D&E Markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions. Volatility in these markets affects our production costs and the demand for our products. Volatility in global consumer, commodity and foreign currency exchange rates increased significantly over the past few years and is expected to continue in the near term.
Climate Change - We operate in many regions around the world where our businesses could be disrupted by climate change. Our climate change risk categories include risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy (“Transition Risks”) and risks related to the physical impacts of climate change (“Physical Risks”). Transition Risks include increased costs of carbon emission, increased cost to produce products in compliance with future regulations, increased raw materials cost, shifts in customer/consumer values and other legal, regulatory and technological risks. Physical Risks include the risk of direct damage to assets or supply chain disruption caused by severe weather events such as floods, storms, wildfires and droughts. We continue to progress toward our 2030 Sustainability Goals which include elements that aim for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, use of natural forest fibers, use of plastics and use of water in water-stressed regions.
War in Ukraine - Beginning in March 2022, we have implemented significant adjustments to our business in Russia. We have substantially curtailed media, advertising and promotional activity and suspended capital investments in our sole manufacturing facility in Russia. Consistent with the humanitarian nature of our products, we manufacture and sell only essential items in Russia, such as baby diapers and feminine pads, which are critical to the health and hygiene of women, girls and babies. Our Russia business has represented approximately 1 to 2 percent of our net global sales, operating profit and total assets. Our ability to continue our operations in Russia may change as the situation evolves. Our business in Russia is experiencing increased input costs, supply chain complexities, reduced consumer demand and restricted access to financial institutions, as well as increased monetary, currency and payment controls. We are actively monitoring the situation, and as the business, geopolitical and regulatory environment concerning Russia evolves, we may not be able to sustain the limited manufacture and sale of our products, and our assets may be partially or fully impaired. We are also monitoring the increased risk of cyber-based attacks as a result of the war in Ukraine and have implemented additional cybersecurity measures designed to address the evolving threat landscape.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 18 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

Results of Operations and Related Information
This section presents a discussion and analysis of net sales, operating profit and other information relevant to an understanding of 2022 results of operations.
Consolidated

----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------ ---- ------ ------------------- ------ ---- - -- -
Selected Financial Results Year Ended December 31
 2022 2021 Change2022 vs. 2021
Net Sales:
North America $ 10,663 $ 10,052 +6 %
Outside North America 9,799 9,697 +1 %
Intergeographic sales (287) (309) -7 %
Total Net Sales 20,175 19,440 +4 %
Operating Profit:
North America 2,071 2,066 —
Outside North America 979 1,082 -10 %
Corporate & Other(a) (412) (559) N.M.
Other (income) and expense, net(a) (43) 28 N.M.
Total Operating Profit 2,681 2,561 +5 %
Provision for income taxes (495) (479) +3 %
Share of net income of equity companies 116 98 +18 %
Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1,934 1,814 +7 %
Diluted Earnings per Share 5.72 5.35 +7 %

(a)    Corporate & Other and Other (income) and expense, net includes income and expenses not associated with the business segments, including adjustments as indicated in the Non-GAAP Reconciliations.
GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations of Selected Financial Results

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- ----- -------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------- -- ------ - - ------------------ ----- - - -----
 Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022
 AsReported Acquisition of Controlling Interest in Thinx Pension Settlements AsAdjustedNon-GAAP

Marketing, research and general expenses $ 3,581 $ 21 $ — $ 3,560
Other (income) and expense, net (43) (85) — 42
Operating Profit 2,681 64 — 2,617
Nonoperating expense (73) — (52) (21)

Provision for income taxes (495) 4 13 (512)
Effective tax rate 21.2 % — — 22.0 %

Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1,934 68 (39) 1,905
Diluted Earnings per Share(a) 5.72 0.20 (0.12) 5.63

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 19 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------ --------------------------------- ------ ------------------ --- ----- - - ------
 Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021
 AsReported 2018 Global Restructuring Program AsAdjustedNon-GAAP
Cost of products sold $ 13,452 $ 154 $ 13,298
Gross Profit 5,988 (154) 6,142
Marketing, research and general expenses 3,399 111 3,288
Other (income) and expense, net 28 10 18
Operating Profit 2,561 (275) 2,836
Nonoperating expense (86) (79) (7)

Provision for income taxes (479) 75 (554)
Effective tax rate 21.5 % — 21.5 %
Share of net income of equity companies 98 (7) 105
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (30) 5 (35)
Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1,814 (281) 2,095
Diluted Earnings per Share(a) 5.35 (0.83) 6.18

(a)    "As Adjusted Non-GAAP" may not equal "As Reported" plus "Adjustments" as a result of rounding.
Analysis of Consolidated Results

---------- -------------- ------------------------- -------------------- -------------- ----
Net Sales Percent Change Adjusted Operating Profit Percent Change
 2022 vs. 2021 2022 vs. 2021
Volume (3) Volume (9)
Net Price 9 Net Price 59
Mix/Other 1 Input Costs (52)
Currency (4) Cost Savings(c) 10
Total(a) 4 Currency Translation (3)
 Other(d) (13)
Organic(b) 7 Total (8)

(a)    Total may not equal the sum of volume, net price, mix/other and currency due to rounding.
(b)     Combined impact of changes in volume, net price and mix/other.
(c)     Benefits of the FORCE program.
(d)    Includes impact of changes in product mix, marketing, research and general expenses, foreign currency transaction effects and other manufacturing costs.

Net sales of $20.2 billion increased 4 percent compared to the year ago period. Operating profit was $2,681 in 2022 and $2,561 in 2021. Adjusted operating profit was $2,617 in 2022 and $2,836 in 2021. Results were impacted by $1.5 billion of higher input costs, higher marketing, research and general expenses and unfavorable foreign currency effects. Results benefited from organic sales growth and $290 of FORCE savings.
Other (income) and expense, net was $43 of income in 2022, which primarily reflected the non-recurring, non-cash gain recognized upon the acquisition of a controlling interest in Thinx related to the remeasurement of the carrying value of our previously held equity investment to fair value. Other (income) and expense, net was $28 of expense in 2021. Adjusted other (income) and expense, net was $42 and $18 of expense in 2022 and 2021, respectively.
The effective tax rate of 21.2 percent in 2022 compared to the effective tax rate of 21.5 percent in 2021. The adjusted effective tax rate was 22.0 percent in 2022 compared to 21.5 percent in 2021.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 20 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

Our share of net income of equity companies was $116 in 2022 and $98 in 2021. Results were positively impacted by higher net selling prices partially offset by higher input costs and lower volumes.

Diluted earnings per share were $5.72 in 2022 and $5.35 in 2021. Adjusted earnings per share of $5.63 in 2022 decreased 9 percent compared to $6.18 in 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by lower adjusted operating profit.
Business Segments
Personal Care

--------- ---- ------ ---- - ------ ---- ---------------- - ----- - -----
 2022 2021 2022 2021
Net Sales $ 10,622 $ 10,267 Operating Profit $ 1,787 $ 1,856

---------- -------------- ---------------- -------------------- -------------- ----
Net Sales Percent Change Operating Profit Percent Change
 2022 vs. 2021 2022 vs. 2021
Volume (3) Volume (7)
Net Price 8 Net Price 45
Mix/Other 2 Input Costs (34)
Currency (3) Cost Savings(c) 7
Total(a) 3 Currency Translation (3)
 Other(d) (12)
Organic(b) 7 Total (4)

(a)    Total may not equal the sum of volume, net price, mix/other and currency due to rounding.
(b)     Combined impact of changes in volume, net price and mix/other.
(c)     Benefits of the FORCE program.
(d)    Includes impact of changes in product mix, marketing, research and general expenses, foreign currency transaction effects and other manufacturing costs.
Net sales in North America increased 5 percent. Changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by 6 percent and 1 percent, respectively. The acquisition of Thinx increased sales by 1 percent. Volumes decreased 3 percent, which included the impact from a planned exit of a private label contract in 2022.
Net sales in D&E Markets increased 3 percent. Changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by approximately 12 percent and 3 percent, respectively. The improvements in product mix were primarily in China. Volumes decreased 6 percent led by declines in Eastern Europe, Indonesia and Brazil. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by 5 percent.
Net sales in Developed Markets outside North America were slightly down compared to the prior year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by 11 percent. Volumes increased 5 percent with growth across all markets. Changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by 5 percent and 1 percent, respectively.
Operating profit of $1,787 decreased 4 percent. The comparison was negatively impacted by higher input costs, higher marketing, research and general expenses, lower volumes, unfavorable currency effects, and higher other manufacturing costs, partially offset by higher net selling prices, cost savings, and improved product mix.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 21 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

Consumer Tissue

--------- ---- ----- ---- - ----- ---- ---------------- - --- - ---
 2022 2021 2022 2021
Net Sales $ 6,243 $ 6,034 Operating Profit $ 806 $ 888

---------- -------------- ---------------- -------------------- -------------- ----
Net Sales Percent Change Operating Profit Percent Change
 2022 vs. 2021 2022 vs. 2021
Volume (1) Volume (5)
Net Price 8 Net Price 55
Mix/Other — Input Costs (66)
Currency (4) Cost Savings(c) 12
Total(a) 3 Currency Translation (1)
 Other(d) (4)
Organic(b) 7 Total (9)

(a)    Total may not equal the sum of volume, net price, mix/other and currency due to rounding.
(b)     Combined impact of changes in volume, net price and mix/other.
(c)     Benefits of the FORCE program.
(d)    Includes impact of changes in product mix, marketing, research and general expenses, foreign currency transaction effects and other manufacturing costs.

Net sales in North America increased 7 percent. Changes in net selling prices increased sales by 6 percent, and volumes increased 1 percent.
Net sales in D&E Markets increased 2 percent. Changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by 10 percent and approximately 2 percent, respectively. Volumes decreased 6 percent led by declines primarily in Latin America. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by 3 percent.
Net sales in Developed Markets outside North America decreased 3 percent. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by approximately 10 percent, and exited businesses associated with the 2018 Global Restructuring Program decreased sales by 1 percent. Volumes decreased 1 percent. Changes in net selling prices increased sales by 10 percent.
Operating profit of $806 decreased 9 percent. The comparison was negatively impacted by higher input costs, higher marketing, research and general expenses and lower volumes, partially offset by higher net selling prices, cost savings and lower other manufacturing costs.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 22 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

K-C Professional

--------- ---- ----- ---- - ----- ---- ---------------- - --- - ---
 2022 2021 2022 2021
Net Sales $ 3,256 $ 3,072 Operating Profit $ 457 $ 404

---------- -------------- ---------------- -------------------- -------------- ----
Net Sales Percent Change Operating Profit Percent Change
 2022 vs. 2021 2022 vs. 2021
Volume (4) Volume (17)
Net Price 12 Net Price 89
Mix/Other 1 Input Costs (65)
Currency (4) Cost Savings(c) 13
Total(a) 6 Currency Translation (4)
 Other(d) (3)
Organic(b) 9 Total 13

(a)    Total may not equal the sum of volume, net price, mix/other and currency due to rounding.
(b)     Combined impact of changes in volume, net price and mix/other.
(c)     Benefits of the FORCE program.
(d)    Includes impact of changes in product mix, marketing, research and general expenses, foreign currency transaction effects and other manufacturing costs.
Net sales in North America increased by 9 percent. Changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by 11 percent and 1 percent, respectively. Volumes decreased 3 percent.
Net sales in D&E Markets increased 4 percent. Changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by approximately 7 percent and 2 percent, respectively. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by 4 percent.
Net sales in Developed Markets outside North America increased 1 percent. Changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by 17 percent and 2 percent, respectively. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by 11 percent, and volumes decreased 7 percent led by declines in Western and Central Europe.
Operating profit of $457 increased 13 percent. The comparison was favorably impacted by higher net selling prices, cost savings and lower other manufacturing costs, partially offset by higher input costs, lower volumes and higher marketing, research and general expenses.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash Provided by Operations
Cash provided by operations was $2,733 in 2022 compared to $2,730 in 2021.

Obligations
The following table presents our total contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed or determinable.

----------------------------------- ----- ------ ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- --- - ----- ----- - ----- - -----
 Total 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028+
Long-term debt $ 8,060 $ 472 $ 524 $ 550 $ 396 $ 595 $ 5,523
Interest payments on long-term debt 3,205 277 264 252 232 227 1,953
Operating lease liabilities 539 138 119 100 83 53 46
Unconditional purchase obligations 4,120 1,794 958 798 279 252 39
Open purchase orders 2,307 1,768 440 47 28 22 2
Total contractual obligations $ 18,231 $ 4,449 $ 2,305 $ 1,747 $ 1,018 $ 1,149 $ 7,563

The unconditional purchase obligations are for the purchase of raw materials, primarily superabsorbent materials, pulp and utilities. Although we are primarily liable for payments on the above operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations,

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 23 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

based on historic operating performance and forecasted future cash flows, we believe exposure to losses, if any, under these arrangements is not material.
The open purchase orders displayed in the table represent amounts for goods and services we have negotiated for delivery.
The table does not include amounts where payments are discretionary or the timing is uncertain. The following payments are not included in the table:
•Our consolidated subsidiary, Thinx, has issued common securities to the third-party minority owner, who has certain redemption rights to sell those securities to us. If the rights are exercised, it would require us to pay approximately $50 in 2023 and approximately $185 during a second exercise period of January 1, 2024 through June 30, 2026. See Item 8, Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details.
•We will fund our defined benefit pension plans to meet or exceed statutory requirements and currently expect to contribute approximately $25 to these plans in 2023.
•Other postretirement benefit payments are estimated using actuarial assumptions, including expected future service, to project the future obligations. Based upon those projections, we anticipate making annual payments for these obligations of approximately $50 through 2032.
•Accrued income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, deferred taxes and noncontrolling interests.
Investing
Our capital spending was $876 in 2022 and $1,007 in 2021. Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired of $46 in 2022 reflected the acquisition of a controlling interest of Thinx. We expect capital spending to be approximately $800 to $900 in 2023.
Financing
We issue long-term debt in the public market periodically. Proceeds from the offerings are used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of maturing debt or outstanding commercial paper indebtedness. See Item 8, Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for details.
Our short-term debt, which consists of U.S. commercial paper with original maturities up to 90 days and/or other similar short-term debt issued by non-U.S. subsidiaries, was $373 as of December 31, 2022 (included in debt payable within one year on the consolidated balance sheet). The average month-end balance of short-term debt for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 was $757. These short-term borrowings provide supplemental funding to support our operations. The level of short-term debt generally fluctuates depending upon the amount of operating cash flows and the timing of customer receipts and payments for items such as pension contributions, dividends and income taxes.
At December 31, 2022, total debt was $8.4 billion compared to $8.6 billion at December 31, 2021.
We maintain a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in June 2026 and a $775 revolving credit facility which expires in June 2023.  These facilities, currently unused, support our commercial paper program, and would provide liquidity in the event our access to the commercial paper markets is unavailable for any reason.
The United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), is in the process of phasing out LIBOR with completion of the phase out expected by June 30, 2023. We have evaluated the potential effect of the elimination of LIBOR and do not expect the effect to be material. Accounting guidance has been issued to ease the transition to alternative reference rates from a financial reporting perspective.
We paid $1.6 billion in dividends in 2022. The Board of Directors approved a dividend increase of 1.7 percent for 2023. We repurchase shares of Kimberly-Clark common stock from time to time pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs. During 2022, we repurchased 779 thousand shares of our common stock at a cost of $100 through a broker in the open market. We are targeting full-year 2023 share repurchases of approximately $100 to $150, subject to market conditions.
We believe that our ability to generate cash from operations and our capacity to issue short-term and long-term debt are adequate to fund working capital, capital spending, pension contributions, dividends and other needs for the foreseeable future.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 24 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

Further, we do not expect restrictions or taxes on repatriation of cash held outside of the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations for the foreseeable future.
Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. The critical accounting policies we used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. The critical judgments by management relate to accruals for sales incentives and trade promotion allowances, pension and other postretirement benefits, deferred income taxes and potential income tax assessments, and goodwill and other intangible assets. These critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances
Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. Rebate and promotion accruals are based on estimates of the quantity of customer sales. Promotion accruals also consider estimates of the number of consumer coupons that will be redeemed and timing and costs of activities within the promotional programs. Generally, the estimated redemption value of consumer coupons and related expense are based on historical patterns of coupon redemption, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories, and the cost is recorded when the related revenue from customers is realized. Our related accounting policies are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Employee Postretirement Benefits
Substantially all regular employees in the U.S. and the United Kingdom are covered by defined contribution retirement plans and certain U.S. and United Kingdom employees previously earned benefits covered by defined benefit pension plans that currently provide no future service benefit (the "Principal Plans"). Certain other subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans or, in certain countries, termination pay plans covering substantially all regular employees. Our related accounting policies and account balances are discussed in Item 8, Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
Changes in certain assumptions could affect pension expense and the benefit obligations, particularly the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used to calculate the obligations:
•Long-term rate of return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return is evaluated on an annual basis. In setting these assumptions, we consider a number of factors including projected future returns by asset class relative to the target asset allocation. Actual asset allocations are regularly reviewed and they are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate.
As of December 31, 2022, the Principal Plans had cumulative unrecognized investment and actuarial losses of approximately $1.0 billion. These unrecognized net losses may increase future pension expense if not offset by (i) actual investment returns that exceed the assumed investment returns, (ii) other factors, including reduced pension liabilities arising from higher discount rates used to calculate pension obligations, or (iii) other actuarial gains, and whether such accumulated actuarial losses at each measurement date exceed the "corridor" as required. If the expected long-term rate of return on assets for the Principal Plans were lowered by 0.25 percent, the impact on annual pension expense would not be material in 2023.
•Discount rate. The discount (or settlement) rate used to determine the present value of our future U.S. pension obligation at December 31, 2022 was based on a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with cash flows that largely match the expected benefit payments of the plan. For the United Kingdom plan, the discount rate was determined based on yield curves constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities. Each year's expected future benefit payments were discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate to determine the pension obligations. If the discount rate assumptions for these same plans were reduced by 0.25 percent, the increase in annual pension expense would not be material in 2023, and the December 31, 2022 pension liability would increase by about $60.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 25 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

•Other assumptions. There are a number of other assumptions involved in the calculation of pension expense and benefit obligations, primarily related to participant demographics and benefit elections.
Pension expense for defined benefit pension plans is estimated to approximate $100 in 2023, including estimated pension settlement charges. Pension expense beyond 2023 will depend on future investment performance, our contributions to the pension trusts, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the covered participants in the plans.
Substantially all U.S. retirees and employees have access to our unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plans. Changes in significant assumptions could affect the consolidated expense and benefit obligations, particularly the discount rate used to calculate the obligations and the health care cost trend rate:
•Discount rate. The determination of the discount rates used to calculate the benefit obligations of the plans is discussed in the pension benefit section above, and the methodology for each country is the same as the methodology used to determine the discount rate for that country's pension obligation. If the discount rate assumptions for these plans were reduced by 0.25 percent, the impact to 2023 other postretirement benefit expense and the increase in the December 31, 2022 benefit liability would not be material.
•Health care cost trend rate. The health care cost trend rate is based on a combination of inputs including our recent claims history and insights from external advisers regarding recent developments in the health care marketplace, as well as projections of future trends in the marketplace.
Deferred Income Taxes and Potential Assessments
As a global organization, we are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally. Changes in certain assumptions related to income taxes could significantly affect consolidated results, particularly with regard to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, undistributed earnings of subsidiaries outside the U.S. and uncertain tax positions. Our income tax related accounting policies, account balances and matters affecting income taxes are discussed in Item 8, Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
•Deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We have recorded deferred tax assets related to, among other matters, income tax loss carryforwards, income tax credit carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards and have established valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets. These carryforwards are primarily in non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions and in certain states in the U.S. Foreign tax credits earned in the U.S. in current and prior years, which cannot be used currently, also give rise to net deferred tax assets. In determining the valuation allowances to establish against these deferred tax assets, many factors are considered, including the specific taxing jurisdiction, the carryforward period, income tax strategies and forecasted earnings for the entities in each jurisdiction. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.
•Undistributed earnings. As of December 31, 2022, we have accumulated undistributed earnings generated by our foreign subsidiaries of approximately $7.4 billion. Earnings of $3.7 billion were previously subject to U.S. federal income tax. Any additional taxes due with respect to such previously-taxed foreign earnings, if repatriated, would generally be limited to foreign and U.S. state income taxes. Deferred taxes have been recorded on $0.7 billion of earnings of foreign consolidated subsidiaries expected to be repatriated. We do not intend to distribute the remaining $3.0 billion of previously-taxed foreign earnings and therefore have not recorded deferred taxes for foreign and U.S. state income taxes on such earnings. We consider any excess of the amount for financial reporting over tax basis in our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested. The determination of deferred tax liabilities on the amount of financial reporting over tax basis or the $3.0 billion of previously-taxed foreign earnings is not practicable.
•Uncertain tax positions. We record our global tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which we operate. Where we believe that a tax position is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is included in our income tax returns. Where treatment of a position is uncertain, a liability is recorded based upon the expected most likely outcome taking into consideration the technical merits of the position based on specific tax regulations and facts of each matter. These liabilities may be affected by changing interpretations of laws, rulings by tax authorities or the expiration of the statute of limitations.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 26 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization and are tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Intangible assets that are deemed to have finite lives are amortized over their useful lives, generally ranging from 4 to 20 years. We typically obtain the assistance of third-party valuation specialists to measure the acquisition date fair values of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired.
Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, or declining financial performance in comparison to projected results.
Our related accounting policies, acquisitions of Thinx and Softex Indonesia, and goodwill and other intangible assets account balances are discussed in Item 8, Notes 1, 3 and 4, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill
In our evaluation of goodwill impairment, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors such as macroeconomic, industry and competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environments, historical and projected financial performance, significant changes in the reporting unit and the magnitude of excess fair value over carrying amount from the previous quantitative impairment testing. If the result of a qualitative test indicates a potential for impairment, a quantitative test is performed. When a quantitative test is considered necessary, estimates of fair value for goodwill impairment testing are determined based on a discounted cash flow model and a market-based approach. We use inputs from our long-range planning process to determine growth rates for sales and earnings. The other key estimates and factors used in the discounted cash flow include, but are not limited to, discount rates, actual business trends experienced, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, inflation and terminal growth rates.
For 2022, we completed the required annual assessment of goodwill for impairment for all of our reporting units using a qualitative assessment as of the first day of the third quarter, and we determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of goodwill significantly exceeds the carrying amount for each of our reporting units.
Other Intangible Assets
We evaluate the useful lives of our other intangible assets, primarily brands, to determine if they are finite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets.
Our estimate of the fair value of our brand assets is based on a discounted cash flow model and a market-based approach using inputs which include projected revenues from our long-range plan, assumed royalty rates that could be payable if we did not own the brands, and a discount rate. The cash flows used in the discounted cash flow model are consistent with those we use in our internal planning, which gives consideration to actual business trends experienced and the long-term business strategy.
We performed our 2022 impairment assessment of our intangible assets as of the first day of the third quarter, and based upon a qualitative assessment, no impairment indicators were found to be present.
New Accounting Standards
See Item 8, Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of recent accounting standards and their anticipated effects on our consolidated financial statements.
Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain matters contained in this report concerning the business outlook, including raw material, energy and other input costs, the anticipated cost savings from our FORCE program, cash flow and uses of cash, growth initiatives, innovations, marketing and other spending, net sales, anticipated currency rates and exchange risks, including the impact in Argentina and Turkey, effective tax rate, contingencies and anticipated transactions of Kimberly-Clark, including dividends, share repurchases and pension contributions, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based upon management's expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting Kimberly-Clark.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 27 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them.
The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside our control, including the war in Ukraine (including the related responses of consumers, customers, and suppliers and sanctions issued by the U.S., the European Union, Russia or other countries), pandemics (including the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak and the related responses of governments, consumers, customers, suppliers and employees), epidemics, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the prices and availability of our raw materials, supply chain disruptions, failure to realize the expected benefits or synergies from our acquisition and disposition activity (including our pending agreement to sell our Neve tissue brand and associated assets in Brazil), changes in customer preferences, severe weather conditions, government trade or similar regulatory actions, potential competitive pressures on selling prices for our products, energy costs, general economic and political conditions globally and in the markets in which we do business, as well as our ability to maintain key customer relationships, could affect the realization of these estimates.
The factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, or in our other SEC filings, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could also affect our business operations and financial results.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105  Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[discussed in Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[discussed in Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[discussed in Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[discussed in Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[described under Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting Kimberly-Clark.

 -- -----------------------------------------------
 27 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2022 Annual Report

There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them.
The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside our control, including the war in Ukraine (including the related responses of consumers, customers, and suppliers and sanctions issued by the U.S., the European Union, Russia or other countries), pandemics (including the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak and the related responses of governments, consumers, customers, suppliers and employees), epidemics, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the prices and availability of our raw materials, supply chain disruptions, failure to realize the expected benefits or synergies from our acquisition and disposition activity (including our pending agreement to sell our Neve tissue brand and associated assets in Brazil), changes in customer preferences, severe weather conditions, government trade or similar regulatory actions, potential competitive pressures on selling prices for our products, energy costs, general economic and political conditions globally and in the markets in which we do business, as well as our ability to maintain key customer relationships, could affect the realization of these estimates.
The factors described under Item 1A, "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20
