================================================================================
CIK: 0001596783
Company Name: Catalent, Inc
Filing Date: 2023-06-12
Form Type: 10-K-A
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 14:31:47
================================================================================

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. You should carefully read “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in this Annual Report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, particularly in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth below gives effect to the revision of our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30 2022 to reflect the impact of an error in the periods impacted. In addition, effective July 1, 2022, in connection with the appointment of a new President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company changed its operating structure and reorganized its executive leadership team accordingly. This new organizational structure includes a shift from the four operating and reportable segments the Company disclosed during fiscal 2022 to two segments: (i) Biologics and (ii) Pharma and Consumer Health. The discussion below also gives effect to the recast of our revised consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2022 and 2021 and for the years ended June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020 included in this Annual Report to reflect the new reporting structure. For additional information and a detailed discussion of the revision and recast, refer to Note 1, Revisions of Previously Issued Financial Statements, and Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, included in the Notes to Financial Statements section of Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
Overview
We provide differentiated development and manufacturing solutions for drugs, protein-based biologics, cell and gene therapies, vaccines, and consumer health products at over fifty facilities across four continents under rigorous quality and operational standards. Our oral, injectable, and respiratory delivery technologies, along with our state-of-the-art protein and cell and gene therapy manufacturing capacity, address a wide and growing range of modalities and therapeutic and other categories across the biopharmaceutical and consumer health industries. Through our extensive capabilities, growth-enabling capacity, and deep expertise in product development, regulatory compliance, and clinical trial and commercial supply, we can help our customers take products to market faster, including nearly half of new drug products approved by the FDA in the last decade. Our development and manufacturing platforms, our proven formulation, supply, and regulatory expertise, and our broad and deep development and manufacturing know-how enable our customers to advance and then bring to market more products and better treatments for patients and consumers. Our commitment to reliably supply our customers’ and their patients’ needs is the foundation for the value we provide; annually, we produce nearly 80 billion doses for nearly 8,000 customer products, or approximately 1 in every 23 doses of such products taken each year by patients and consumers around the world. We believe that through our investments in state-of-the-art facilities and capacity expansion, including investments in facilities focused on new treatment modalities and other attractive market segments our continuous improvement activities devoted to operational and quality excellence, the sales of existing and introduction of new customer products, and, in some cases, our innovation activities and patents, we will continue to attract premium opportunities and realize the growth potential from these areas.

In fiscal 2022, we operated in four segments, which also constitute the four reporting segments further described in "Business—Our Reporting Segments" contained elsewhere in this Annual Report: Biologics, Softgel and Oral Technologies, Oral and Specialty Delivery, and Clinical Supply Services. Immediately following the end of fiscal 2022, we adopted a new operating structure with two operating segments: (1) Biologics and (2) Pharma and Consumer Health (discussed further in Note 21, Subsequent Events to our Consolidated Financial Statements). The discussion below also gives effect to the recast of our revised consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2022 and 2021 and for the years ended June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020 included in this Annual Report to reflect the new reporting structure.
The COVID-19 Pandemic

Our response to COVID-19

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken steps to protect our employees, ensure the integrity and quality of our products and services, and maintain business continuity for our customers and their patients who depend on us to manufacture and supply critical products to the market. To address the multiple dimensions of the pandemic, a senior, multi-disciplinary team regularly monitors the global situation, executing mitigation activities as required.

Among other things, we implemented measures to avoid or reduce infection or contamination in line with guidelines issued by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the World Health Organization, and local authorities where we

22

operate, re-emphasized good hygiene practices, reorganized our workflows where permitted to maximize physical distancing, required supervisor approval for employee travel, facilitated safer alternatives to travel to and from work, and employed in some cases remote-working strategies. We also frequently monitor our supply chain to identify risks, delays, and concerns that may affect our ability to deliver our services and products. During fiscal 2022, we did not identify any significant risk, delay, or concern that had a substantial effect on such delivery, in part because of our adoption of various procedures to minimize and manage supply disruptions to our ongoing operations, including through business continuity plans and careful attention to inventory levels to assure supply of needed inputs. Our existing procedures, which are consistent with cGMP and other regulatory standards, are intended to assure the integrity of our supply against any contamination. We have a detailed response plan to manage impacts of the virus on employee health, site operations, and product supply, including immediate assessment of the health of employees reporting symptoms, comprehensive risk assessment of any impact to quality, additional cleaning protocols, and alternative shift patterns to compensate should fewer employees be available.

Continuing effects of the pandemic, combined with the Ukrainian-Russian war, are likely to result in further or more severe supply-chain disruptions in fiscal 2023 and potentially beyond. We continue to execute our mitigation strategies, but there can be no assurance of the continued effectiveness of these strategies.

Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business and Results of Operations
Throughout the pandemic, we have observed occasional customer delays and cancellations, increases in absenteeism of production employees in our facilities in certain affected regions, disruptions in certain clinical trials supported by our Pharma and Consumer Health segment, and delays in inspections and product approvals by the FDA and regulatory authorities globally.
We have also seen substantial demand and related revenue from COVID-19-related products, particularly in our Biologics segment. In part to meet this demand, we accelerated and enhanced certain of our capital improvement plans to expand capacity for manufacturing drug substance and drug product for protein-based biologics and cell and gene therapies, particularly at our drug product facilities in Bloomington, Indiana, Anagni, Italy, and our commercial-scale viral vector manufacturing facility in Harmans, Maryland and hired thousands of new employees. We also implemented various strategies to protect our financial condition and results of operations should we experience a reduction in demand for COVID-19 related products, such as inserting take-or-pay and minimum volume requirements in the contracts we executed for the manufacture of certain COVID-19 related products. However, the extent and duration of revenue associated with COVID-19-related products is uncertain and dependent, in important respects, on factors outside our control.
The future duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic and the future demand for COVID-19 vaccines and therapies is unknown. Public opinion regarding certain COVID-19 vaccines and therapies and the product owners and manufacturers continues to change and has affected the demand for certain products and services. In addition, the concentration of revenue from certain COVID-19 vaccine products enhances our operational risk with respect to quality, security, regulatory inspections and business disruption resulting from any unforeseen event that affects any of the facilities or communities in which we manufacture COVID-19 vaccines. We have implemented various mechanisms to protect our customers, their material and product, and our business continuity, including enhanced security measures at certain facilities and heightened cybersecurity controls.

See also “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and the Industry in Which We Operate — Our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected by global health epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic” and “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and the Industry in Which We Operate — The continually evolving nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting public health response, including the changing demand for various COVID-19 vaccines and treatments from both patients and governments around the world, may affect sales of the COVID-19 products we manufacture” elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Critical Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements
The following disclosure supplements the descriptions of our accounting policies contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements regarding significant areas of judgment. Management made certain estimates and assumptions during the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements. These estimates also affect the reported amount of net earnings during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Because of the size of the financial statement elements to which they relate, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements than others.

23

Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. A discussion of some of our more significant accounting policies and estimates follows.
Revenue Recognition
We sell products and services directly to our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, and consumer health customers. The majority of our business is conducted through manufacturing and commercial product supply, development services, and clinical supply services.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require judgment. For our manufacturing and commercial product supply revenue, the contract generally includes the terms of the manufacturing services and related product quality assurance procedures to comply with regulatory requirements. Due to the regulated nature of our business, these contract terms are highly interdependent and, therefore, are considered to be a single combined performance obligation. For our development services and clinical supply services revenue, our performance obligations vary per contract and are accounted for as separate performance obligations. If a contract contains a single performance obligation, we allocate the entire transaction price to the single performance obligation. If a contract contains multiple performance obligations, we allocate consideration to each performance obligation using the “relative standalone selling price” as defined under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Generally, we utilize observable standalone selling prices in our allocations of consideration. If observable standalone selling prices are not available, we estimate the applicable standalone selling price using an adjusted market assessment approach, representing the amount that we believe the market is willing to pay for the applicable service. Revenue is recognized over time using an appropriate method of measuring progress towards fulfilling our performance obligation for the respective arrangement. Determining the measure of progress that consistently depicts our satisfaction of performance obligations within each of our revenue streams across similar arrangements requires judgment.

Our customer contracts generally include provisions entitling us to a termination penalty when the customer terminates prior to the contract’s nominal end date. The termination penalties in these customer contracts vary but are generally considered substantive for accounting purposes and create enforceable rights and obligations throughout the stated duration of the contract. We account for a contract termination as a contract modification in the period in which the customer gives notice of termination. The determination of the contract termination penalty is based on the terms stated in the relevant customer agreement. As of the modification date, we update our estimate of the transaction price using the expected value method, subject to constraints, and recognize the amount over the remaining performance period under the contract. In the event of a contract termination, revenues are recognized to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal will not occur when any uncertainty is subsequently resolved.
Long-lived and Other Definite-Lived Intangible Assets

We allocate the cost of an acquired company to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired, with the remaining cost recorded as goodwill. Intangible assets primarily include customer relationships, technology and trademarks. Valuing the identifiable intangible assets requires judgment. For example, we applied a multi-period, excess-earnings method to measure the core technology acquired in the Bettera Wellness acquisition, which included certain assumptions, such as (i) the estimated annual net cash flows (including application of an appropriate margin for forecasted revenue, revenue obsolescence rate, selling and marketing costs, return on working capital, contributory asset charges, and other factors), (ii) the discount rate that appropriately reflects the risk inherent in each future cash flow stream, and (iii) an assessment of the asset’s life cycle, (iv) as well as other factors. Intangible assets are generally amortized on a straight-line basis, reflecting the pattern in which the economic benefits are consumed, and are amortized over their estimated useful lives.

We assess the impairment of identifiable intangibles if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include the following:

•significant under-performance relative to historical or projected future operating results;
•significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy of the overall business;
•significant negative industry or economic trends; and
•recognition of goodwill impairment charges.

If we determine that the carrying value of identifiable intangibles and/or long-lived assets may not be recoverable based on the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, we measure recoverability of assets by comparing the respective carrying value of the assets to the current and expected future cash flows, on an un-discounted basis, to be generated

24

from such assets. If such analysis indicates that the carrying value of these assets is not recoverable, we measure an impairment based on the amount in which the net carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair values of the assets. See Notes 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures and 6, Other Intangibles, net to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
We account for purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. Under ASC 350, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least annually. We perform an impairment evaluation of goodwill annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year or when circumstances otherwise indicate an evaluation should be performed. The evaluation may begin with a qualitative assessment for each reporting unit to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If the qualitative assessment does not generate a positive response, or if no qualitative assessment is performed, a quantitative assessment, based upon discounted cash flows, is performed and requires management to estimate future cash flows, growth rates, and economic and market conditions. In fiscal 2022 and 2020, we proceeded immediately to the quantitative assessment, but in fiscal 2021 we began with the qualitative assessment. Accordingly, no sensitivity analysis was performed for fiscal 2021. The evaluations performed in fiscal 2020, 2021, and 2022 resulted in no impairment charge.
See Notes 5, Goodwill and 6, Other Intangibles, net to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Taxes
In accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, we account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. The asset and liability method requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for expected future tax consequences of temporary differences that currently exist between tax bases and the corresponding financial reporting bases of our assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in the respective jurisdictions in which we operate. Deferred taxes are not provided on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries outside of the U.S. when it is expected that these earnings will be permanently reinvested. In fiscal 2018, we recorded a provision for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes in relation to expected repatriations as a result of the 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the ”2017 Tax Act”), but we have not made any provision for U.S. income taxes on the remaining undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as those earnings are considered permanently reinvested in the operations of those foreign subsidiaries in the years after 2018.
The 2017 Tax Act imposed taxes on so-called “global intangible low-taxed income” (“GILTI”) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries of a U.S. company. In accordance with ASC 740, we made an accounting policy election to treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred.
We assess the realizability of deferred tax assets by considering all available evidence, both positive and negative. We evaluate four possible sources of taxable income when assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets:
•carrybacks of existing NOLs (if and to the extent permitted by tax law);
•future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;
•tax planning strategies; and
•future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards.
We consider the need to maintain a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets based on management’s assessment of whether it is more likely than not that we would realize those deferred tax assets as a result of future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and the ability to generate sufficient taxable income within the carryforward period available under the applicable tax law.
Unrecognized tax benefits are generated when there are differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Tax benefits are recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements when it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination. To the extent we prevail in matters for which liabilities have been established or are required to pay amounts in excess of our liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given period could be materially affected. An unfavorable income tax settlement may require the use of cash and result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the year it is resolved. A favorable income tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in the effective income tax rate in the year of resolution.
Our accounting for income taxes involves the application of complex tax regulations in the U.S. and in each of the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly European tax jurisdictions. The determination of income subject to taxation in each tax-paying jurisdiction requires us to review reported book income and the events occurring during the year in each

25

jurisdiction in which we operate. In addition, the application of deferred tax assets and liabilities will have an effect on the tax expense in each jurisdiction. For those entities engaging in transactions with affiliates, we apply transfer-pricing guidelines relevant in many jurisdictions in which we operate and make certain informed and reasonable assumptions and estimates about the relative value of contributions by affiliates when assessing the allocation of income and deductions between consolidated entities in different jurisdictions. The estimates and assumptions used in these allocations can result in uncertainty in the measured tax benefit.
Factors Affecting our Performance
Fluctuations in Operating Results
Our annual financial reporting period ends on June 30. Excluding the impact from COVID-19, our revenue and net earnings are generally higher in the third and fourth quarters of each fiscal year, with our first fiscal quarter typically generating our lowest revenue of any quarter, and our last fiscal quarter typically generating our highest revenue. These fluctuations are primarily the result of the timing of our, and our customers’, annual operational maintenance periods at locations in Europe and the U.S., the seasonality associated with pharmaceutical and biotechnology budgetary spending decisions, clinical trial and research and development schedules, the timing of new product launches and length of time needed to obtain full market penetration, and, to a lesser extent, the time of the year some of our customers’ products are in higher demand.
Acquisition and Related Integration Efforts
Our growth and profitability are affected by the acquisitions we complete and the speed at which we integrate those acquisitions into our existing operating platforms. In fiscal 2020, we completed the acquisition of and integrated additional gene and cell therapy assets in the U.S. and Belgium. We also completed the acquisition of and integrated the Anagni facility in Italy. In fiscal 2021, we expanded our capacity and capabilities through five acquisitions for our Biologics segment and through the acquisition of a dry powder inhaler and spray dry manufacturing business from Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. (“Acorda”). In fiscal 2022, we acquired each of Bettera Wellness, a manufacturer of a consumer-preferred gummy and other formats for consumer health products, a commercial-scale cell therapy manufacturing facility in Princeton, New Jersey, and a manufacturing facility for biologic therapies and vaccines near Oxford, U.K.
Foreign Exchange Rates
Our operating network is global, and, as a result, we have substantial revenues and operating expenses that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the currency in which we report our financial results, and are therefore influenced by changes in currency exchange rates. In fiscal 2022, approximately 36% of our net revenue was generated from our operations outside the U.S. Foreign currencies for our operations include the British pound, European euro, Brazilian real, Argentine peso, Japanese yen, and the Canadian dollar.
Inflation
In fiscal 2022, we began to experience the effects of inflation, which increased to levels not seen in more than 30 years. In response, we began to implement various mitigation strategies, including in some cases increasing prices to customers or reducing other costs of operation, including through price renegotiations with suppliers. The effects of inflation, after accounting for these mitigation strategies, was immaterial to our financial results in fiscal 2022, but inflation is likely to continue for most or all of fiscal 2023, at least, and there can be no assurance that our mitigating strategies will continue to enjoy the same degree of success.
Trends Affecting Our Business
Industry
We participate in nearly every sector of the global pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, which has been estimated to generate more than $1 trillion in annual revenue, including, but not limited to, the prescription drug and biologic sectors as well as consumer health, which includes the over-the-counter and vitamins and nutritional supplement sectors. Innovative pharmaceuticals, and biologics in particular, continue to play a critical role in the global market, while the share of revenue due to generic drugs and biosimilars is increasing in both developed and developing markets. Sustained developed market demand and rapid growth in emerging economies is driving consumer health product growth. Payors, both public and private, have sought to limit the economic impact of pharmaceutical and biologics product demand through greater use of generic and biosimilar drugs, access and spending controls, and health technology assessment techniques, favoring products that deliver truly differentiated outcomes.

26

New Molecule Development and R&D Sourcing
Continued strengthening in early-stage development pipelines for drugs and biologics, compounded by increasing clinical trial breadth and complexity, support our belief in the attractive growth prospects for development solutions. Large companies are in many cases reconfiguring their R&D resources, increasingly involving the use of strategic partners for important outsourced functions and new treatment modalities. Additionally, an increasing portion of compounds in development are from companies that do not have a full research and development infrastructure, and thus are more likely to need strategic development solutions partners.
Demographics
Aging population demographics in developed countries, combined with the global COVID-19 pandemic and health care reforms in many global markets that are expanding access to treatments to a greater proportion of the global population, will continue to drive increases in demand for pharmaceuticals, biologics, and consumer health products. Increasing economic affluence in developing regions will further increase demand for healthcare treatments, and we are taking active steps to allow us to participate effectively in these growth regions and product categories.
Finally, we believe the market access and payor pressures our customers face, global supply chain complexity, and the increasing demand for improved and new modality treatments will continue to escalate the need for advanced formulation and manufacturing, product differentiation, improved outcomes, and treatment cost reduction, all of which can often be addressed using our advanced delivery technologies.
Non-GAAP Metrics
As described in this section, management uses various financial metrics, including certain metrics that are not based on concepts defined in U.S. GAAP, to measure and assess the performance of our business, to make critical business decisions, and to assess our compliance with certain financial obligations. We therefore believe that presentation of certain of these non-GAAP metrics in this Annual Report will aid investors in understanding our business.
EBITDA from operations
Management measures operating performance based on consolidated earnings from operations before interest expense, expense for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization, adjusted for the income attributable to non-controlling interests (“EBITDA from operations”). EBITDA from operations is not defined under U.S. GAAP, is not a measure of operating income, operating performance, or liquidity presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and is subject to important limitations.
We believe that the presentation of EBITDA from operations enhances an investor’s understanding of our financial performance. We believe this measure is a useful financial metric to assess our operating performance across periods and use this measure for business planning purposes. In addition, given the significant investments that we have made in the past in property, plant, and equipment, depreciation and amortization expenses represent a meaningful portion of our cost structure. We believe that disclosing EBITDA from operations provides investors with a useful tool for assessing the comparability between periods of our ability to generate cash from operations sufficient to pay taxes, service debt, and undertake capital expenditures without consideration of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense. We present EBITDA from operations in order to provide supplemental information that we consider relevant for readers of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and such information is not meant to replace or supersede U.S. GAAP measures. Our definition of EBITDA from operations may not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies. The most directly comparable measure to EBITDA from operations defined under U.S. GAAP is net earnings. Included in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis is a reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA from operations.
In addition, we evaluate the performance of our segments based on segment earnings before non-controlling interest, other (income) expense, impairments, restructuring costs, interest expense, income tax expense, stock-based compensation, gain (loss) on sale of subsidiary, and depreciation and amortization (“Segment EBITDA”).
Adjusted EBITDA
Under the Credit Agreement and in the Indentures, the ability of Operating Company to engage in certain activities, such as incurring certain additional indebtedness, making certain investments, and paying certain dividends, is tied to ratios based on Adjusted EBITDA (which is defined as “Consolidated EBITDA” in the Credit Agreement and “EBITDA” in the Indentures). Adjusted EBITDA is a covenant compliance measure in our Credit Agreement and Indentures, particularly those covenants governing debt incurrence and restricted payments. Adjusted EBITDA is based on the definitions in the Credit Agreement, is not defined under U.S. GAAP, is not a measure of operating income, operating performance, or liquidity presented in

27

accordance with U.S. GAAP, and is subject to important limitations. Because not all companies use identical calculations, our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
In addition, we use Adjusted EBITDA as a performance metric that guides management in its operation of and planning for the future of the business and drives certain management compensation programs. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides a useful measure of our operating performance from period to period by excluding certain items that are not representative of our core business, including interest expense and non-cash charges like depreciation and amortization.
The measure under U.S. GAAP most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net earnings. In calculating Adjusted EBITDA, we add back certain non-cash, non-recurring, and other items that are deducted when calculating EBITDA from operations and net earnings, consistent with the requirements of the Credit Agreement. Adjusted EBITDA, among other things:
•does not include non-cash stock-based employee compensation expense and certain other non-cash charges;
•does not include cash and non-cash restructuring, severance, and relocation costs incurred to realize future cost savings and enhance operations;
•adds back any non-controlling interest expense, which represents minority investors’ ownership of non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries and is, therefore, not available; and
•includes estimated cost savings that have not yet been fully reflected in our results.
Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Share
We use Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per share (which we sometimes refer to as “Adjusted EPS”) as performance metrics. Adjusted Net Income is not defined under U.S. GAAP, is not a measure of operating income, operating performance, or liquidity presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and is subject to important limitations. We believe that providing information concerning Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per share enhances an investor’s understanding of our financial performance. We believe that these measures are useful financial metrics to assess our operating performance from period to period by excluding certain items that we believe are not representative of our core business, and we use these measures for business planning and executive compensation purposes. We define Adjusted Net Income as net earnings adjusted for (1) earnings or loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, (2) amortization attributable to purchase accounting, and (3) income or loss from non-controlling interest in majority-owned operations. We also make adjustments for other cash and non-cash items (as shown above, in “—Adjusted EBITDA”), partially offset by our estimate of the tax effect of such cash and non-cash items. Our definition of Adjusted Net Income may not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted Net Income per share is computed by dividing Adjusted Net Income by the weighted average diluted shares outstanding.
Use of Constant Currency
As exchange rates are an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons, we believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to reported results helps improve investors’ ability to understand our operating results and evaluate our performance in comparison to prior periods. Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period. We use results on a constant currency basis as one measure to evaluate our performance. In this Annual Report, we calculate constant currency by calculating current-year results using prior-year foreign currency exchange rates. We generally refer to such amounts calculated on a constant currency basis as excluding the impact of foreign exchange. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not measures of performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Summary Two-Year Key Financial Performance Metrics
The below tables summarize our results in fiscal 2022 and 2021 with respect to several financial metrics we use to measure performance. Refer to the discussions below regarding performance and the use of key financial metrics and “—Non-GAAP Metrics—Use of Constant Currency” concerning the measurement of revenue at “constant currency.”

28

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2022 compared to the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2021
Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- --------- ----- ------------------------------------- ----- -------- ---------- ----- -- ----- ---- ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Ended June 30, FX Impact Constant Currency Increase (Decrease)
 2022 2021 Change $ Change % *
Net revenue $ 4,802 $ 3,998 $ (84) $ 888 22 %
Cost of sales 3,188 2,646 (49) 591 22 %
Gross margin 1,614 1,352 (35) 297 22 %
Selling, general, and administrative expenses 844 687 (6) 163 24 %
Gain on sale of subsidiary (1) (182) — 181 (99) %
Other operating expense 41 19 (1) 23 110 %
Operating earnings 730 828 (28) (70) (8) %
Interest expense, net 123 110 (1) 14 12 %
Other expense, net 28 3 (7) 32 1,227 %
Earnings before income taxes 579 715 (20) (116) (16) %
Income tax expense 80 130 (5) (45) (35) %

Net earnings $ 499 $ 585 $ (15) $ (71) (12) %

* Change % calculations are based on amounts prior to rounding.
Net Revenue

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- -
 2022 vs. 2021
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue
Organic 20 %
Impact of acquisitions 4 %
Impact of divestitures (2) %
Constant currency change 22 %
Foreign currency translation impact on reporting (2) %
Total % change 20 %

29

Net revenue increased by $888 million, or 22%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. Net revenue increased 20% organically on a constant-currency basis, primarily related to (i) broad-based strength across our Biologics offerings, in particular demand for our drug product and drug substance offerings for COVID-19 related programs, (ii) increased demand for our customers' prescription products, and (iii) a continued rebound in our consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products.
Net revenue increased 4% inorganically as a result of acquisitions, which was partially offset by a 2% decrease in net revenue due to the sale of Catalent USA Woodstock, Inc. and related assets (collectively, the “Blow-Fill-Seal Business”) in fiscal 2021. Inorganic net revenue resulted from our acquisitions of Skeletal Cell Therapy Support SA (“Skeletal”), Delphi Genetics SA (“Delphi”) and the manufacturing and packaging assets of Acorda in fiscal 2021, as well as RheinCell Therapeutics GmbH (“RheinCell”), Bettera Wellness and a cell therapy commercial manufacturing facility and its operations in Princeton, New Jersey (“Princeton”) from Erytech Pharma S.A. (“Erytech”) in fiscal 2022.
Gross Margin
Gross margin increased by $297 million, or 22%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, primarily as a result of the strong margin profile for all Biologics segment offerings, including demand across our drug product and drug substance offerings for COVID-19 related programs. Additional factors for such growth included increased demand for prescription products, a continued rebound in demand for consumer health products in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment, and a favorable impact from prior-year recall charges in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Margin growth was offset in part by a $47 million increase in depreciation expense, a one-time non-cash $7 million fair value inventory adjustment associated with our Bettera Wellness acquisition and an unfavorable impact from remediation activities at our Brussels facility.
On a constant-currency basis, gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, decreased 20 basis points to 33.6% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, compared to 33.8% in the prior year.
Selling, General, and Administrative Expense
Selling, general, and administrative expense increased by $163 million, or 24%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, which includes $46 million in net incremental expenses from acquired and divested companies. The year-over-year increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses was primarily due to a $19 million increase in employee health and welfare costs, a $15 million increase in information technology spend, $14 million in employee-related costs primarily incurred for wages and bonuses, a $13 million increase in amortization and depreciation, $10 million of incremental bad debt expense, an $8 million increase in travel and entertainment, and a $5 million increase in integration costs associated with acquisitions.

Other Operating Expense
Other operating expense for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 was $41 million and $19 million, respectively. The year-over-year increase was due to a $22 million increase in fixed asset impairment charges primarily associated with dedicated equipment for a product that we no longer manufacture in our respiratory and specialty platform and certain obsolete equipment in our Biologics segment.
Interest Expense, net
Interest expense, net, of $123 million in fiscal 2022 increased by $14 million, or 12%, compared to fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. The savings from repayment of our formerly outstanding term loans and early redemption of our U.S. dollar-denominated 4.875% Senior Notes due 2026 (the “2026 Notes”) in fiscal 2021 were fully offset by increases in interest expense from our most recent tranche of term loans, the 2029 Notes, and the 2030 Notes.
For additional information concerning our debt and financing arrangements, including the changing mix of debt and equity in our capital structure, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt and Financing Arrangements” and Note 8, Long-Term Obligations and Short-Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Expense, net

Other expense, net of $28 million for fiscal 2022 was primarily driven by $33 million of foreign currency losses and $4 million of financing charges related to our outstanding term loans, partially offset by a $2 million gain related to the change in fair value of the derivative liability arising from the dividend-adjustment mechanism of our formerly outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.

30

Other expense, net of $3 million for fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by an $11 million premium on early redemption of the 2026 Notes, a write-off of $4 million of previously capitalized financing charges related to our repayment of term loans and our redeemed 2026 Notes, $3 million of financing charges related to our outstanding term loans, and a net foreign currency translation loss of $5 million. Those losses were partially offset by a gain of $17 million related to the fair value of the derivative liability associated with our previously outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.
Provision for Income Taxes

Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 was $80 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $579 million. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 was $130 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $715 million. The decreased income tax provision for the current-year period over the prior-year period was largely the result of a decrease in pretax income, a $69 million income tax benefit for U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from an amendment to prior-year returns, and the tax benefit associated with the establishment of a net deferred tax asset expected to arise as a result of recently enacted tax reform in Switzerland and related transition rules (collectively, “Swiss Tax Reform”). This decrease was partially offset by certain deemed income inclusion in the U.S., a $26 million income tax charge for establishing a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets of certain Belgian operations, and a $62 million valuation allowance against the aforementioned tax benefit related to Swiss Tax Reform. The provision for income taxes in each of fiscal 2022 and 2021 was also affected by the geographic distribution of our pretax income, the tax impact of permanent differences, restructuring, special items, and other discrete tax items that may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item.
Segment Review
The below charts depict the percentage of net revenue from each of our two reportable segments for the previous two years. Refer below for discussions regarding the segments’ net revenue and EBITDA performance and to “—Non-GAAP Metrics” for a discussion of our use of Segment EBITDA, a measure that is not defined under U.S. GAAP.

Our results on a segment basis for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 were as follows:

31

--------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- --------- ----- ------------------------------------- ----- -------- ------------ ----- -- --- -- -
(Dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Ended June 30, FX Impact Constant Currency Increase (Decrease)
 2022 2021 Change $ Change % (1)
Biologics
Net revenue $ 2,534 $ 1,938 $ (35) $ 631 33 %
Segment EBITDA 777 615 (14) 176 28 %
Pharma and Consumer Health
Net revenue 2,271 2,063 (50) 258 12 %
Segment EBITDA 589 498 (17) 108 22 %
Inter-segment revenue elimination (3) (3) 1 (1) *
Unallocated Costs(2) (286) 1 5 (292) *
Combined totals
Net revenue $ 4,802 $ 3,998 $ (84) $ 888 22 %

EBITDA from operations $ 1,080 $ 1,114 $ (26) $ (8) — %

(1)    Change % calculations are based on amounts prior to rounding.
*    Not meaningful
(2)    Unallocated costs include restructuring and special items, stock-based compensation, gain (loss) on sale of subsidiary, impairment charges, certain other corporate-directed costs, and other costs that are not allocated to the segments as follows:

----------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- ---- ---- - ---
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Impairment charges and gain/loss on sale of assets(a) $ (31) $ (9)
Stock-based compensation (54) (51)
Restructuring and other special items (b) (55) (31)

Gain on sale of subsidiary (c) 1 182
Other expense, net (28) (3)
Non-allocated corporate costs, net (119) (87)
Total unallocated costs $ (286) $ 1

(a)    For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, impairment charges are primarily due to fixed asset impairment charges associated with dedicated equipment for a product that we no longer manufacture in our respiratory and specialty platform in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment and obsolete equipment in our Biologics segment.
(b)    Restructuring and other special items for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 include (i) transaction and integration costs primarily associated with the Princeton acquisition, and the Bettera Wellness, Delphi, Hepatic Cell Therapy Support SA (“Hepatic”), Acorda and RheinCell transactions and (ii) unrealized losses on venture capital investments. Restructuring and other special items during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 include (1) transaction costs for the sale of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, (2) transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of our facility in Anagni, Italy, the Acorda, Masthercell Global Inc. (“MaSTherCell”), Delphi, Hepatic, and Skeletal transactions and the acquisition of Société d’infrastructures, de services et d’énergies SA, and (3) restructuring costs associated with the closure of our Pharma and Consumer Health facility in Bolton, U.K. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the transactions listed above.
(c)    For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022 and 2021, gain on sale of subsidiary is due to the divestiture of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, which was formerly part of our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the sale of the Blow-Fill-Seal Business.
(d)    Refer to Note 16, Other Expense, net for details of financing charges and foreign currency adjustments recorded within Other Expense, net in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Provided below is a reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA from operations:

32

----------------------------- -------------------------- ----- ---- --- - -----
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Net earnings $ 499 $ 585
Depreciation and amortization 378 289
Interest expense, net 123 110
Income tax expense 80 130

EBITDA from operations $ 1,080 $ 1,114

Biologics segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- --- -
 2022 vs. 2021
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 33 % 29 %
Impact of acquisitions — % (1) %

Constant currency change 33 % 28 %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting (2) % (2) %
Total % change 31 % 26 %

Net revenue in our Biologics segment increased by $631 million, or 33%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by strong end-market demand for our global drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs.
Biologics Segment EBITDA increased by $176 million, or 28%, excluding the impacts of foreign exchange and acquisitions, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, Excluding the impact of acquisitions, Segment EBITDA increased 29%, compared to the fiscal year end June 30, 2021. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by strong end-market demand for our drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs, and partially offset by an unfavorable impact from remediation activities at our Brussels facility.

We completed the acquisition of RheinCell in August 2021. In April 2022, we completed the acquisition of Princeton. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, these acquisitions had an immaterial impact on our net revenue and decreased Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 1% compared to the corresponding prior-year period.
Pharma and Consumer Health Segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- --- -
 2022 vs. 2021
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 7 % 21 %
Impact of acquisitions 8 % 5 %
Impact of divestitures (3) % (4) %
Constant currency change 12 % 22 %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting (2) % (4) %
Total % change 10 % 18 %

Net revenue in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment increased by $258 million, or 12%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. Net revenue increased 7% organically, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. The increase in organic revenue primarily relates to strong end-market demand for prescription products, a continued rebound in consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products, growth in development services, demand for the segment’s orally disintegrating Zydis commercial products and demand for early-phase development programs.

33

Pharma and Consumer Health Segment EBITDA increased by $108 million, or 22%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. Segment EBITDA increased 21% organically, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. The increase in organic Segment EBITDA, similar to that of net revenue, was primarily driven by an increase in demand for prescription products, a continued rebound in consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products, and the margin generated from strong development revenue growth. Year over year growth was also driven by demand for the segment’s orally disintegrating Zydis commercial products, and a favorable impact from prior-year recall charges in our respiratory and specialty platform.
We completed the Acorda transaction in February 2021 and we completed the Bettera Wellness acquisition in October 2021, which collectively increased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 8% and 5%, respectively, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, compared to the corresponding prior-year period. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, we recorded a one-time non-cash inventory fair value adjustment for $7 million resulting from our Bettera Wellness purchase accounting, which unfavorably impacted Segment EBITDA.
We completed the Blow-Fill-Seal Business divestiture in March 2021. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, this divestiture decreased our net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 3% and 4%, respectively, compared to the corresponding prior-year period.
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2021 compared to the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2020
Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- --------- ----- ------------------------------------- ----- -------- -------- ----- ----- --- --- -
(Dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Ended June 30, FX Impact Constant Currency Increase (Decrease)
 2021 2020 Change $ Change %
Net revenue $ 3,998 $ 3,094 $ 89 $ 815 26 %
Cost of sales 2,646 2,111 56 479 23 %
Gross margin 1,352 983 33 336 34 %
Selling, general, and administrative expenses 687 577 8 102 17 %
(Gain) loss on sale of subsidiary (182) 1 — (183) *
Other operating expense 19 11 — 8 96 %
Operating earnings 828 394 25 409 104 %
Interest expense, net 110 126 1 (17) (14) %
Other expense, net 3 8 8 (13) (166) %
Earnings before income taxes 715 260 16 439 169 %
Income tax expense 130 39 2 89 223 %

Net earnings $ 585 $ 221 $ 14 $ 350 159 %

Net Revenue

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- -
 2021 vs. 2020
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue
Organic 25 %
Impact of acquisitions 3 %
Impact of divestitures (2) %
Constant currency change 26 %
Foreign currency translation impact on reporting 3 %
Total % change 29 %

34

Net revenue increased by $815 million, or 26%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. Net revenue increased 3% as a result of acquisitions, which was partially offset by a 2% decrease in net revenue due to the sale of Catalent USA Woodstock, Inc. (the “Blow-Fill-Seal Business”) in March 2021. Among other acquisitions, we acquired Skeletal in November 2020, and Delphi and Acorda in February 2021. In addition, we divested a facility in Australia in October 2019. Organic net revenue increased 25% on a constant-currency basis, and was primarily driven by robust demand across all our Biologics offerings, in particular demand for our drug product and drug substance offerings for COVID-19-related programs, offset in part by the loss of volume from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in the respiratory specialty platform in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment and demand decreases attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic that impacted Pharma and Consumer Health net revenue.
Gross Margin
Gross margin increased by $336 million, or 34%, in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, primarily as a result of the strong margin profile for all Biologics segment offerings, including demand across our drug product and drug substance offerings for COVID-19 related programs. Growth was offset in part by the loss in volume from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in the respiratory specialty platform in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment and decreased demand for our prescription and consumer health products in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. On a constant-currency basis, gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, increased 200 basis points to 34% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, compared to 32% in the prior year, primarily due to the higher margin profile associated with our Biologics segment.
Selling, General, and Administrative Expense
Selling, general, and administrative expense increased by $102 million, or 17%, in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, driven by $65 million of employee-related cost primarily incurred for wages and bonuses, a $15 million increase in cost for professional and consulting services, and additional selling, general and administrative expenses from acquired companies of $13 million, including $2 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense and $3 million related to the cost of various transitional services. These increases were partially offset by $12 million in reduced costs associated with health and welfare benefits and $9 million associated with travel and entertainment expenses.

The year-over-year increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses was also due to a $32 million increase in information technology spend associated with headcount increases, additional cyber security initiatives, insurance premium increases, certain market research initiatives, and COVID-19-related spend for personal protective equipment and test kits for our employees.
Other Operating Expense
Other operating expense for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2021 and 2020 was $19 million and $11 million, respectively. The year-over-year increase was attributable to an increase in impairment charges and an increase in restructuring costs primarily associated with our plan to reduce costs and optimize our infrastructure in Europe by closing our Pharma and Consumer Health facility in Bolton, U.K.
Interest Expense, net
Interest expense, net, of $110 million in fiscal 2021 decreased by $16 million, or 13%, compared to fiscal 2020, driven by savings from repayment of our formerly outstanding dollar-denominated term loans, euro-denominated term loans, euro-denominated 4.75% Senior Notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”), and U.S. dollar-denominated 4.875% Senior Notes due 2026 (the “2026 Notes”), partially offset by interest expenses on the 2028 Notes, the new tranche of dollar-denominated term loans, and the 2029 Notes. The savings also includes $6 million of additional capitalized interest costs for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the prior fiscal year due to increased capital expenditures.
For additional information concerning our debt and financing arrangements, including the changing mix of debt and equity in our capital structure, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt and Financing Arrangements” and Note 8, Long-Term Obligations and Short-Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Expense, net

35

Other expense, net of $3 million for fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by an $11 million premium on early redemption of the 2026 Notes, a write-off of $4 million of previously capitalized financing charges related to our repayment of term loans and our redeemed 2026 Notes, $3 million of financing charges related to our outstanding term loans and a net foreign currency translation loss of $5 million. Those losses were partially offset by a gain of $17 million related to the fair value of the derivative liability associated with the Series A Preferred Stock.
Other expense, net for fiscal 2020 of $8 million was primarily driven by financing charges of $16 million. The financing charges included a $6 million write-off of previously capitalized financing charges related to our repaid euro-denominated term loan under our senior secured credit facilities and redeemed 2024 Notes, and a $10 million premium on early redemption of the 2024 Notes. The loss was partially offset by a foreign currency gain of $3 million and a derivative gain of $3 million related to the change in the fair value of the derivative liability arising from the dividend adjustment mechanism of our Series A Preferred Stock.
Provision for Income Taxes

Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 was $130 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $715 million. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 was $39 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $260 million. The increased income tax provision for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 over the prior-year was largely the result of an increase in pretax income and a $56 million income tax charge on the divestiture of the Blow-Fill-Seal Business. This increase was partially offset by a $47 million income tax benefit for U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from an amendment to a prior-year return and certain equity compensation deductions. The provision for income taxes was also impacted by the geographic distribution of our pretax income, the tax impact of permanent differences, restructuring, special items, and other discrete tax items that may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item.
Segment Review
The below charts depict the percentage of net revenue from each of our two reportable segments for the previous two years. Refer below for discussions regarding the segments’ net revenue and EBITDA performance and to “—Non-GAAP Metrics” for a discussion of our use of Segment EBITDA, a measure that is not defined under U.S. GAAP.

36

Our results on a segment basis for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- --------- ----- ------------------------------------- ----- -------- -------- ---- ---- --- -- -
(Dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Ended June 30, FX Impact Constant Currency Increase (Decrease)
 2021 2020 Change $ Change %
Biologics
Net revenue $ 1,938 $ 1,032 $ 31 $ 875 85 %
Segment EBITDA 615 239 12 364 152 %
Pharma and Consumer Health
Net revenue 2,063 2,063 58 (58) (3) %
Segment EBITDA 498 547 19 (68) (13) %
Inter-segment revenue elimination (3) (1) — (2) *
Unallocated Costs(2) 1 (146) (8) 155 107 %
Combined totals
Net revenue $ 3,998 $ 3,094 $ 89 $ 815 26 %

EBITDA from operations $ 1,114 $ 640 $ 23 $ 451 70 %

(1)    Change % calculations are based on amounts prior to rounding.
*    Not meaningful
(2) Unallocated costs include restructuring and special items, stock-based compensation, gain (loss) on sale of subsidiary, impairment charges, certain other corporate-directed costs, and other costs that are not allocated to the segments as follows:

---------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- --- ---- ---- - -----
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Impairment charges and gain (loss) on sale of assets $ (9) $ (5)
Stock-based compensation (51) (48)
Restructuring and other special items (a) (31) (42)

Gain (loss) on sale of subsidiary (b) 182 (1)
Other expense, net (c) (3) (8)
Non-allocated corporate costs, net (87) (42)
Total unallocated costs $ 1 $ (146)

(a)    Restructuring and other special items during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 include (i) transaction costs for the sale of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, (ii) transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of our facility in Anagni, Italy and the Acorda, Masthercell Global Inc. (“MaSTherCell”), Delphi, Hepatic, Skeletal and SISE transactions, and (iii) restructuring costs associated with the closure of our Pharma and Consumer Health facility in Bolton, U.K. Restructuring and other special items during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 include transaction and integration costs associated with the Anagni facility, our cell and gene therapy acquisitions, the divestiture of a facility in Australia, and other restructuring initiatives across our network of sites. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the transactions listed above.

(b)    For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, gain on sale of subsidiary is due to the divestiture of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, which was part of our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Loss on sale of subsidiary for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 is due to the divestiture of the Australian facility that was part of the Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the transactions listed above.
(c)    Refer to Note 16, Other Expense, net for details of financing charges and foreign currency translation adjustments recorded within Other Expense, net in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Provided below is a reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA from operations:

37

----------------------------- -------------------------- ----- ---- --- - ---
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Net earnings $ 585 $ 221
Depreciation and amortization 289 254
Interest expense, net 110 126
Income tax expense 130 39

EBITDA from operations $ 1,114 $ 640

Biologics segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- --- -
 2021 vs. 2020
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 76 % 144 %
Impact of acquisitions 9 % 8 %

Constant currency change 85 % 152 %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting 3 % 5 %
Total % change 88 % 157 %

Net revenue in our Biologics segment increased by $875 million, or 85%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by robust end-market demand for our global drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs.
Biologics Segment EBITDA increased by $364 million, or 152%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by robust end-market demand for our global drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs.

Several acquisitions contributed to the Biologics inorganic growth in fiscal 2021. Our Anagni, Italy facility, part of which operates within our Biologics segment, and our MaSTherCell acquisition together increased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 9% and 8%, respectively, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, compared to the prior year.
Pharma and Consumer Health Segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- ---- -
 2021 vs. 2020
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 2 % (10) %
Impact of acquisitions 2 % 1 %
Impact of divestitures (7) % (4) %
Constant currency change (3) % (13) %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting 3 % 4 %
Total % change — % (9) %

Net revenue in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment decreased by $58 million, or 3%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Net revenue increased 2% organically compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. The increase was driven by strong demand in our manufacturing and packaging and storage and distribution offerings in North America, development revenue growth and increased demand for the segment’s orally delivered Zydis commercial products and early-phase development programs. The increase was partially offset by the loss of volume resulting from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in our respiratory specialty platform, reduced end-market demand for prescription products within North America and Europe, as well as lower demand in consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products attributable to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.

38

Pharma and Consumer Health Segment EBITDA decreased by $68 million, or 13%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Segment EBITDA decreased 10% organically compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. The decrease, similar to that of net revenue, was primarily driven by the loss of volume resulting from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in our respiratory specialty platform inclusive of charges of $32 million in the aggregate associated with the recall, a decrease in demand in both the prescription and consumer health portfolio of products, and decreased demand for other non-Zydis orally delivered commercial products. The decrease was partially offset by strong global demand in our manufacturing and packaging and storage and distribution offerings and by the margin generated from strong development revenue growth.
Our Anagni and Acorda transactions increased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic, constant-currency basis by 2% and 1%, respectively, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the prior year. We divested the Blow-Fill-Seal Business in March 2021, which decreased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic, constant-currency basis by 7% and 4%, respectively, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the prior year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and use of Cash
Our principal source of liquidity has been cash flow generated from operations and the net proceeds of capital market activities. The principal uses of cash are to fund operating and capital expenditures, business or asset acquisitions, interest payments on debt, and any mandatory or discretionary principal payment on our debt. As of June 30, 2022, and following the September 2021 execution of Amendment No. 6 (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement, we had available a $725 million Revolving Credit Facility that matures in May 2024, the capacity of which is reduced by the amount of all outstanding letters of credit issued under the senior secured credit facilities and those short-term borrowings referred to as swing-line borrowings. At June 30, 2022, we had $4 million of outstanding letters of credit and no outstanding borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility.
We believe that our cash on hand, cash from operations, and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months, including the amounts expected to become due with respect to our pending capital projects. We have no significant maturity under any of our bank or note debt until the July 2027 maturity of our 2027 Notes.
On August 9, 2022, we entered into a purchase agreement to acquire Metrics Contract Services ("Metrics") and will pay approximately $475 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments. Metrics is an oral solids development and manufacturing business specializing in handling highly potent compounds at its facility in Greenville, North Carolina. We intend to fund this acquisition using a combination of cash on hand, existing senior secured credit facilities, and, depending on market conditions, potentially new debt financing. The closing of the acquisition is not contingent on any financing activity.
Cash Flows
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2022 Compared to the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2021
The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of cash flows for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021:

------------------------------- -------------------------- ------- ---- -------- ----- - -------
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Change $
Net cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 439 $ 433 $ 6
Investing activities $ (1,884) $ (649) $ (1,235)
Financing activities $ 1,031 $ 142 $ 889

Operating Activities
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, cash provided by operating activities was $439 million, an increase of $6 million compared to $433 million for the prior year. This increase in cash flow from operating activities was primarily due to an increase in operating income, excluding the gain derived from the sale of the Blow-Fill-Seal business in March 2021, a favorable impact from a decline in the rate of trade receivables growth, and a favorable impact from a decline in the rate of inventory growth, which was partially offset by an unfavorable impact from the increase in contract assets.

39

Investing Activities
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, cash used in investing activities was $1.88 billion, compared to $649 million during fiscal 2021. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by a $1.05 billion increase in cash used for business acquisition activities, partially offset by a $52 million decline in the purchase of marketable securities and a $26 million decrease in cash used for purchases of property, plant, and equipment compared to the prior year. Another key driver in the year-over-year change was the lack of proceeds from sale of any subsidiary, as no subsidiary was sold in the current year, compared to $290 million in proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries received in fiscal 2021.
Financing Activities
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $1.03 billion, which increased $889 million compared to cash provided by financing activities of $142 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily driven by a $934 million year-over-year increase in cash received from the issuance of debt, partially offset by the July 2020 exercise of an over-allotment option on 1.2 million additional shares by the underwriter for the equity offering in June 2020, resulting in net proceeds of $82 million.
Debt and Financing Arrangements
Senior Secured Credit Facilities and Sixth Amendment to the Credit Agreement
In September 2021, we completed the Sixth Amendment to the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Sixth Amendment, we incurred an additional $450 million aggregate principal amount of U.S. dollar-denominated term loans (the “Incremental Term B-3 Loans”) and amended the quarterly amortization payments from 0.25% to 0.2506% of the principal amount outstanding for the Incremental Term B-3 Loans and the other term loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement, all of which are U.S. dollar-denominated (together with the Incremental Term B-3 Loans, the “Term B-3 Loans”). The Incremental Term B-3 Loans otherwise feature the same principal terms as the previously drawn Term B-3 Loans, including an interest rate of one-month LIBOR (subject to a floor of 0.50%) plus 2.00% per annum and a maturity date of February 2028. The proceeds of the Incremental Term B-3 Loans, after payment of the offering fees and expenses, were used in part to fund a portion of the consideration paid at the closing of the Bettera Wellness acquisition.

The Sixth Amendment also provided for incremental revolving credit commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. The applicable rate for all loans drawn under the Revolving Credit Facility is one-month LIBOR plus 2.25%, and such rate can be reduced to one-month LIBOR plus 2.00% in future periods based on a measure of Operating Company's total leverage ratio. The maturity date for the Revolving Credit Facility is May 17, 2024.

Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the interest rates under the Term B-3 Loans and loans drawn under the Revolving Credit Facility will be based on a replacement benchmark interest rate when LIBOR is no longer available.
The availability of capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility is reduced by the aggregate value of all outstanding letters of credit under the Credit Agreement. As of June 30, 2022, we had $721 million of unutilized capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility, due to $4 million of outstanding letters of credit.
Further information concerning the senior secured credit facilities, including the Term B-3 Loans and the Revolving Credit Facility, can be found in Note 8, Long-Term Obligations and Short-Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements
5.000% Senior Notes due 2027
In June 2019, Operating Company completed a private offering of the 2027 Notes. The 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of Operating Company that guarantee its senior secured credit facilities. The 2027 Notes were offered in the U.S. to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and outside the U.S. only to non-U.S. investors pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The 2027 Notes will mature on July 15, 2027 and bear interest at the rate of 5.000% per annum. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2020. The proceeds of the 2027 Notes after payment of the offering fees and expenses were used to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under Operating Company's then-outstanding term loans under its senior secured credit facilities that would otherwise have matured in May 2024.

40

2.375% Euro-denominated Senior Notes due 2028
In March 2020, Operating Company completed a private offering of the 2028 Notes. The 2028 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of Operating Company that guarantee its senior secured credit facilities. The 2028 Notes were offered in the U.S. to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and outside the U.S. only to non-U.S. investors pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The 2028 Notes will mature on March 1, 2028 and bear interest at the rate of 2.375% per annum. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2020. The proceeds of the 2028 Notes after payment of the offering fees and expenses were used to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under Operating Company's euro-denominated term loans under its senior secured credit facilities, that would otherwise have matured in May 2024, and repay in full our Euro-denominated 4.75% Senior Notes due 2024, which would otherwise have matured in December 2024, plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, with the remainder available for general corporate purposes.
3.125% Senior Notes due 2029

In February 2021, Operating Company completed a private offering of the 2029 Notes. The 2029 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of Operating Company that guarantee its senior secured credit facilities. The 2029 Notes were offered in the U.S. to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and outside the U.S. only to non-U.S. investors pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The 2029 Notes will mature on February 15, 2029 and bear interest at the rate of 3.125% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning on August 15, 2021. The proceeds of the 2029 Notes after payment of the offering fees and expenses were used to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under the 2026 Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, with the remainder available for general corporate purposes.
3.500% Senior Notes due 2030
In September 2021, Operating Company completed a private offering of the 2030 Notes. The 2030 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of Operating Company that guarantee its senior secured credit facilities. The 2030 Notes were offered in the U.S. to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and outside the U.S. only to non-U.S. investors pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The 2030 Notes will mature on April 1, 2030 and bear interest at the rate of 3.500% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on April 1, 2022. The proceeds of the 2030 Notes, after payment of the offering fees and expenses, were used to fund a portion of the consideration paid at the closing of the Bettera Wellness acquisition.
Deferred Purchase Consideration
In connection with the acquisition of Catalent Indiana, LLC in October 2017, $200 million of the $950 million aggregate nominal purchase price was payable in $50 million installments on each of the first four anniversaries of the closing date. The Company made the installment payments in October 2018, October 2019, October 2020, and the final payment was made in October 2021.
Debt Covenants
Senior Secured Credit Facilities
The Credit Agreement contains covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, Operating Company’s (and Operating Company’s restricted subsidiaries’) ability to incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; create liens on assets; engage in mergers and consolidations; sell assets; pay dividends and distributions or repurchase capital stock; repay subordinated indebtedness; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; make investments, loans, or advances; make certain acquisitions; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; amend material agreements governing Operating Company’s subordinated indebtedness; and change Operating Company’s lines of business.
The Credit Agreement also contains change-of-control provisions and certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. The Revolving Credit Facility requires compliance with a net leverage covenant when there is a 30% or more draw outstanding at a period end. As of June 30, 2022, Operating Company was in compliance with all material covenants under the Credit Agreement.
Subject to certain exceptions, the Credit Agreement permits Operating Company and its restricted subsidiaries to incur certain additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. None of Operating Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries nor its dormant Puerto Rico subsidiary is a guarantor of the loans.

41

Under the Credit Agreement, Operating Company’s ability to engage in certain activities such as incurring certain additional indebtedness, making certain investments, and paying certain dividends is tied to ratios based on Adjusted EBITDA (which is defined as “Consolidated EBITDA” in the Credit Agreement). Adjusted EBITDA is based on the definitions in the Credit Agreement, is not defined under U.S. GAAP, and is subject to important limitations. See “—Non-GAAP Metrics” for further details on Adjusted EBITDA.
As market conditions warrant, we may from time to time seek to purchase our outstanding debt in privately negotiated or open-market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. Subject to any limitation contained in the Credit Agreement, any purchase made by us may be funded by the use of cash on hand or the incurrence of new secured or unsecured debt. The amount involved in any such purchase transaction, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. Any such purchase may involve a substantial amount of one particular class or series of debt, with the attendant reduction in the trading liquidity of such class or series.
The Senior Notes
The Indentures contain certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of Operating Company and its restricted subsidiaries to incur or guarantee more debt or issue certain preferred shares; pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of their capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell; or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets; enter into certain transactions with their affiliates, and designate their subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions, limitations, and qualifications as set forth in the Indentures. The Indentures also contain customary events of default including, but not limited to, nonpayment, breach of covenants, and payment or acceleration defaults in certain other indebtedness of Operating Company or certain of its subsidiaries. Upon an event of default, either the holders of at least 30% in principal amount of each of the then-outstanding Senior Notes or the applicable Trustee under the Indentures, may declare the applicable Senior Notes immediately due and payable; or in certain circumstances, the applicable Senior Notes will automatically become immediately due and payable. As of June 30, 2022, Operating Company was in compliance with all material covenants under the Indentures.
Liquidity in Foreign Subsidiaries
As of June 30, 2022 and 2021, the amounts of cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries were $377 million and $351 million, respectively, out of total consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $449 million and $896 million, respectively. These balances are dispersed across many international locations around the world.
Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income per Share
The below tables summarize our fiscal 2022 and 2021 results with respect to certain financial metrics we use to measure performance throughout the fiscal year. Refer to “Non-GAAP Metrics” for further details regarding Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted net income per share.

42

A reconciliation between Adjusted EBITDA and net earnings, the most directly comparable measure under U.S. GAAP, which also shows the adjustments from EBITDA from operations, follows:

--------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ----- ------------- ----- - -----
 Fiscal Year Ended
(In millions) June 30, 2022 June 30, 2021
Net earnings $ 499 $ 585
Interest expense, net 123 110
Income tax expense 80 130
Depreciation and amortization 378 289

EBITDA from operations 1,080 1,114
Stock-based compensation 54 51
Impairment charges and gain/loss on sale of assets 31 9
Financing-related expenses and other 4 18
Restructuring costs 10 10
Acquisition, integration, and other special items 46 21
Gain on sale of subsidiary (1) (182)

Foreign exchange loss (gain) (included in other, net) (1) 31 (4)
Inventory fair value step-up charges 7 —
Other adjustments (2) (3) (17)

Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,259 $ 1,020
Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact (23)
Adjusted EBITDA - constant currency $ 1,282

(1)    Foreign exchange loss of $31 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 includes: (a) $12 million of unrealized gains related to foreign trade receivables and payables, (b) $11 million of unrealized losses on the unhedged portion of our euro-denominated debt, and (c) $34 million of unrealized losses on inter-company loans. The foreign exchange adjustment was also affected by the exclusion of realized foreign currency exchange rate gains from the settlement of inter-company loans of $2 million. Inter-company loans exist between our subsidiaries and do not reflect the ongoing results of our trade operations.
Foreign exchange gain of $4 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 includes: (a) $13 million of unrealized losses related to foreign trade receivables and payables, (b) $3 million of unrealized losses on the unhedged portion of the euro-denominated debt, and (c) $25 million of unrealized gains on inter-company loans. The foreign exchange adjustment was also affected by the exclusion of realized foreign currency exchange rate losses from the settlement of inter-company loans of $5 million. Inter-company loans exist between our subsidiaries and do not reflect the ongoing results of our trade operations.
(2)    Primarily represents the gain recorded on the change in the estimated fair value of the derivative liability related to our formerly outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.

43

A reconciliation between Adjusted Net Income and net earnings, the most directly comparable measure under U.S. GAAP, follows. The table also provides a calculation of Adjusted Net Income per each basic share and each diluted share.

----------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---- ------------- ----- - ----
 Fiscal Year Ended
(In millions, except per share data) June 30, 2022 June 30, 2021
Net earnings $ 499 $ 585
Amortization (1) 123 93
Stock-based compensation 54 51
Impairment charges and gain/loss on sale of assets 31 9
Financing-related expenses 4 18
Restructuring costs 10 10
Acquisition, integration, and other special items 46 21
(Gain) on sale of subsidiary (1) (182)
Foreign exchange loss (gain) (included in other expense, net) (2) 31 (4)
Inventory fair value step-up charges 7 —
Other adjustments (3) (4) (17)
Estimated tax effect of adjustments (4) (72) 3
Discrete income tax benefit items (5) (54) (38)

Adjusted net income (ANI) $ 674 $ 549

ANI per share:
ANI per share - basic (6) $ 3.82 $ 3.27
ANI per share - diluted (7) $ 3.73 $ 3.04

(1)    Represents the amortization attributable to purchase accounting for previously completed business combinations.
(2)    Foreign exchange loss of $31 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 includes: (a) $12 million of unrealized gains related to foreign trade receivables and payables, (b) $11 million of unrealized losses on the unhedged portion of the euro-denominated debt, and (c) $34 million of unrealized losses on inter-company loans. The foreign exchange adjustment was also affected by the exclusion of realized foreign currency exchange rate gains from the settlement of inter-company loans of $2 million. Inter-company loans exist between our subsidiaries and do not reflect the ongoing results of our trade operations.
Foreign exchange gain of $4 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 includes: (a) $13 million of unrealized losses related to foreign trade receivables and payables, (b) $3 million of unrealized losses on the unhedged portion of the euro-denominated debt, and (c) $25 million of unrealized gains on inter-company loans. The foreign exchange adjustment was also affected by the exclusion of realized foreign currency exchange rate losses from the

44

settlement of inter-company loans of $5 million. Inter-company loans exist between our subsidiaries and do not reflect the ongoing results of our trade operations.
(3)    Primarily represents the gain recorded on the change in the estimated fair value of the derivative liability related to our formerly outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.
(4)    We computed the tax effect of adjustments to net earnings by applying the statutory tax rate in the relevant jurisdictions to the income or expense items that are adjusted in the period presented. If a valuation allowance exists, the rate applied is zero.
(5)    Discrete period income tax expense (benefit) items are unusual or infrequently occurring items, primarily including: changes in judgment related to the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years, changes in measurement of a prior-year tax position, deferred tax impact of changes in tax law, and purchase accounting.
(6)    Represents Adjusted Net Income divided by the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock outstanding. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 and 2021, the weighted average was 176 million and 168 million, respectively.
(7)    Represents Adjusted Net Income divided by the weighted average sum of (a) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding, plus (b) the number of shares of Common Stock that would be issued assuming exercise or vesting of all potentially dilutive instruments, plus (c) the number of shares of Common Stock equivalent to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding under the "if-converted" method. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 and 2021, the weighted average was 181 million and 180 million, respectively.
Interest Rate Risk Management
A portion of the debt used to finance our operations is exposed to interest-rate fluctuations. We may use various hedging strategies and derivative financial instruments to create an appropriate mix of fixed-and floating-rate assets and liabilities. In February 2021, we replaced one interest-rate swap agreement with Bank of America N.A. with another, and each acts or acted as a hedge against the economic effect of a portion of the variable-interest obligation associated with our U.S dollar-denominated term loans under our senior secured credit facilities, so that the interest payable on that portion of the debt becomes fixed at a certain rate, thereby reducing the impact of future interest-rate changes on future interest expense. The applicable rate for the U.S. dollar-denominated term loan under the Credit Agreement was one-month LIBOR (subject to a floor of 0.50%) plus 2.00% as of June 30, 2021; however, as a result of the interest-rate swap agreement, the floating portion of the applicable rate on $500 million of the term loans was effectively fixed at 0.9985% as of February 2021.
Currency Risk Management
We are exposed to fluctuations in the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate on our investments in our foreign operations in Europe. While we do not actively hedge against changes in foreign currency, we have mitigated the exposure of our investments in our European operations by denominating a portion of our debt in euros. At June 30, 2022, we had $874 million of euro-denominated debt outstanding that qualifies as a hedge on a net investment in foreign operations. Refer to Note 10, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of net investment hedge activity in the period.
From time to time, we may use forward currency exchange contracts to manage our exposure to the variability of cash flows primarily related to the foreign exchange rate changes of future foreign currency transaction costs. In addition, we may use foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of existing foreign currency assets and liabilities. Currently, we do not use foreign currency exchange contracts. We expect to continue to evaluate hedging opportunities for foreign currency in the future.

45

PART II

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[refer to Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Refer to Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Refer to Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Refer to Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[Refer to Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Refer to Note 4]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Refer to Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[Refer to Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[' prescription products, and (iii) a continued rebound in our consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products.
Net revenue increased 4% inorganically as a result of acquisitions, which was partially offset by a 2% decrease in net revenue due to the sale of Catalent USA Woodstock, Inc. and related assets (collectively, the “Blow-Fill-Seal Business”) in fiscal 2021. Inorganic net revenue resulted from our acquisitions of Skeletal Cell Therapy Support SA (“Skeletal”), Delphi Genetics SA (“Delphi”) and the manufacturing and packaging assets of Acorda in fiscal 2021, as well as RheinCell Therapeutics GmbH (“RheinCell”), Bettera Wellness and a cell therapy commercial manufacturing facility and its operations in Princeton, New Jersey (“Princeton”) from Erytech Pharma S.A. (“Erytech”) in fiscal 2022.
Gross Margin
Gross margin increased by $297 million, or 22%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, primarily as a result of the strong margin profile for all Biologics segment offerings, including demand across our drug product and drug substance offerings for COVID-19 related programs. Additional factors for such growth included increased demand for prescription products, a continued rebound in demand for consumer health products in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment, and a favorable impact from prior-year recall charges in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Margin growth was offset in part by a $47 million increase in depreciation expense, a one-time non-cash $7 million fair value inventory adjustment associated with our Bettera Wellness acquisition and an unfavorable impact from remediation activities at our Brussels facility.
On a constant-currency basis, gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, decreased 20 basis points to 33.6% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, compared to 33.8% in the prior year.
Selling, General, and Administrative Expense
Selling, general, and administrative expense increased by $163 million, or 24%, in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, which includes $46 million in net incremental expenses from acquired and divested companies. The year-over-year increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses was primarily due to a $19 million increase in employee health and welfare costs, a $15 million increase in information technology spend, $14 million in employee-related costs primarily incurred for wages and bonuses, a $13 million increase in amortization and depreciation, $10 million of incremental bad debt expense, an $8 million increase in travel and entertainment, and a $5 million increase in integration costs associated with acquisitions.

Other Operating Expense
Other operating expense for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 was $41 million and $19 million, respectively. The year-over-year increase was due to a $22 million increase in fixed asset impairment charges primarily associated with dedicated equipment for a product that we no longer manufacture in our respiratory and specialty platform and certain obsolete equipment in our Biologics segment.
Interest Expense, net
Interest expense, net, of $123 million in fiscal 2022 increased by $14 million, or 12%, compared to fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. The savings from repayment of our formerly outstanding term loans and early redemption of our U.S. dollar-denominated 4.875% Senior Notes due 2026 (the “2026 Notes”) in fiscal 2021 were fully offset by increases in interest expense from our most recent tranche of term loans, the 2029 Notes, and the 2030 Notes.
For additional information concerning our debt and financing arrangements, including the changing mix of debt and equity in our capital structure, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt and Financing Arrangements” and Note 8, Long-Term Obligations and Short-Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Expense, net

Other expense, net of $28 million for fiscal 2022 was primarily driven by $33 million of foreign currency losses and $4 million of financing charges related to our outstanding term loans, partially offset by a $2 million gain related to the change in fair value of the derivative liability arising from the dividend-adjustment mechanism of our formerly outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.

30

Other expense, net of $3 million for fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by an $11 million premium on early redemption of the 2026 Notes, a write-off of $4 million of previously capitalized financing charges related to our repayment of term loans and our redeemed 2026 Notes, $3 million of financing charges related to our outstanding term loans, and a net foreign currency translation loss of $5 million. Those losses were partially offset by a gain of $17 million related to the fair value of the derivative liability associated with our previously outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.
Provision for Income Taxes

Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 was $80 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $579 million. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 was $130 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $715 million. The decreased income tax provision for the current-year period over the prior-year period was largely the result of a decrease in pretax income, a $69 million income tax benefit for U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from an amendment to prior-year returns, and the tax benefit associated with the establishment of a net deferred tax asset expected to arise as a result of recently enacted tax reform in Switzerland and related transition rules (collectively, “Swiss Tax Reform”). This decrease was partially offset by certain deemed income inclusion in the U.S., a $26 million income tax charge for establishing a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets of certain Belgian operations, and a $62 million valuation allowance against the aforementioned tax benefit related to Swiss Tax Reform. The provision for income taxes in each of fiscal 2022 and 2021 was also affected by the geographic distribution of our pretax income, the tax impact of permanent differences, restructuring, special items, and other discrete tax items that may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item.
Segment Review
The below charts depict the percentage of net revenue from each of our two reportable segments for the previous two years. Refer below for discussions regarding the segments’ net revenue and EBITDA performance and to “—Non-GAAP Metrics” for a discussion of our use of Segment EBITDA, a measure that is not defined under U.S. GAAP.

Our results on a segment basis for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 were as follows:

31

--------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- --------- ----- ------------------------------------- ----- -------- ------------ ----- -- --- -- -
(Dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Ended June 30, FX Impact Constant Currency Increase (Decrease)
 2022 2021 Change $ Change % (1)
Biologics
Net revenue $ 2,534 $ 1,938 $ (35) $ 631 33 %
Segment EBITDA 777 615 (14) 176 28 %
Pharma and Consumer Health
Net revenue 2,271 2,063 (50) 258 12 %
Segment EBITDA 589 498 (17) 108 22 %
Inter-segment revenue elimination (3) (3) 1 (1) *
Unallocated Costs(2) (286) 1 5 (292) *
Combined totals
Net revenue $ 4,802 $ 3,998 $ (84) $ 888 22 %

EBITDA from operations $ 1,080 $ 1,114 $ (26) $ (8) — %

(1)    Change % calculations are based on amounts prior to rounding.
*    Not meaningful
(2)    Unallocated costs include restructuring and special items, stock-based compensation, gain (loss) on sale of subsidiary, impairment charges, certain other corporate-directed costs, and other costs that are not allocated to the segments as follows:

----------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- ---- ---- - ---
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Impairment charges and gain/loss on sale of assets(a) $ (31) $ (9)
Stock-based compensation (54) (51)
Restructuring and other special items (b) (55) (31)

Gain on sale of subsidiary (c) 1 182
Other expense, net (28) (3)
Non-allocated corporate costs, net (119) (87)
Total unallocated costs $ (286) $ 1

(a)    For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, impairment charges are primarily due to fixed asset impairment charges associated with dedicated equipment for a product that we no longer manufacture in our respiratory and specialty platform in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment and obsolete equipment in our Biologics segment.
(b)    Restructuring and other special items for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 include (i) transaction and integration costs primarily associated with the Princeton acquisition, and the Bettera Wellness, Delphi, Hepatic Cell Therapy Support SA (“Hepatic”), Acorda and RheinCell transactions and (ii) unrealized losses on venture capital investments. Restructuring and other special items during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 include (1) transaction costs for the sale of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, (2) transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of our facility in Anagni, Italy, the Acorda, Masthercell Global Inc. (“MaSTherCell”), Delphi, Hepatic, and Skeletal transactions and the acquisition of Société d’infrastructures, de services et d’énergies SA, and (3) restructuring costs associated with the closure of our Pharma and Consumer Health facility in Bolton, U.K. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the transactions listed above.
(c)    For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022 and 2021, gain on sale of subsidiary is due to the divestiture of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, which was formerly part of our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the sale of the Blow-Fill-Seal Business.
(d)    Refer to Note 16, Other Expense, net for details of financing charges and foreign currency adjustments recorded within Other Expense, net in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Provided below is a reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA from operations:

32

----------------------------- -------------------------- ----- ---- --- - -----
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2022 2021
Net earnings $ 499 $ 585
Depreciation and amortization 378 289
Interest expense, net 123 110
Income tax expense 80 130

EBITDA from operations $ 1,080 $ 1,114

Biologics segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- --- -
 2022 vs. 2021
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 33 % 29 %
Impact of acquisitions — % (1) %

Constant currency change 33 % 28 %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting (2) % (2) %
Total % change 31 % 26 %

Net revenue in our Biologics segment increased by $631 million, or 33%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by strong end-market demand for our global drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs.
Biologics Segment EBITDA increased by $176 million, or 28%, excluding the impacts of foreign exchange and acquisitions, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, Excluding the impact of acquisitions, Segment EBITDA increased 29%, compared to the fiscal year end June 30, 2021. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by strong end-market demand for our drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs, and partially offset by an unfavorable impact from remediation activities at our Brussels facility.

We completed the acquisition of RheinCell in August 2021. In April 2022, we completed the acquisition of Princeton. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, these acquisitions had an immaterial impact on our net revenue and decreased Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 1% compared to the corresponding prior-year period.
Pharma and Consumer Health Segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- --- -
 2022 vs. 2021
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 7 % 21 %
Impact of acquisitions 8 % 5 %
Impact of divestitures (3) % (4) %
Constant currency change 12 % 22 %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting (2) % (4) %
Total % change 10 % 18 %

Net revenue in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment increased by $258 million, or 12%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. Net revenue increased 7% organically, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. The increase in organic revenue primarily relates to strong end-market demand for prescription products, a continued rebound in consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products, growth in development services, demand for the segment’s orally disintegrating Zydis commercial products and demand for early-phase development programs.

33

Pharma and Consumer Health Segment EBITDA increased by $108 million, or 22%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. Segment EBITDA increased 21% organically, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. The increase in organic Segment EBITDA, similar to that of net revenue, was primarily driven by an increase in demand for prescription products, a continued rebound in consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products, and the margin generated from strong development revenue growth. Year over year growth was also driven by demand for the segment’s orally disintegrating Zydis commercial products, and a favorable impact from prior-year recall charges in our respiratory and specialty platform.
We completed the Acorda transaction in February 2021 and we completed the Bettera Wellness acquisition in October 2021, which collectively increased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 8% and 5%, respectively, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, compared to the corresponding prior-year period. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, we recorded a one-time non-cash inventory fair value adjustment for $7 million resulting from our Bettera Wellness purchase accounting, which unfavorably impacted Segment EBITDA.
We completed the Blow-Fill-Seal Business divestiture in March 2021. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, this divestiture decreased our net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 3% and 4%, respectively, compared to the corresponding prior-year period.
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2021 compared to the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2020
Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- --------- ----- ------------------------------------- ----- -------- -------- ----- ----- --- --- -
(Dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Ended June 30, FX Impact Constant Currency Increase (Decrease)
 2021 2020 Change $ Change %
Net revenue $ 3,998 $ 3,094 $ 89 $ 815 26 %
Cost of sales 2,646 2,111 56 479 23 %
Gross margin 1,352 983 33 336 34 %
Selling, general, and administrative expenses 687 577 8 102 17 %
(Gain) loss on sale of subsidiary (182) 1 — (183) *
Other operating expense 19 11 — 8 96 %
Operating earnings 828 394 25 409 104 %
Interest expense, net 110 126 1 (17) (14) %
Other expense, net 3 8 8 (13) (166) %
Earnings before income taxes 715 260 16 439 169 %
Income tax expense 130 39 2 89 223 %

Net earnings $ 585 $ 221 $ 14 $ 350 159 %

Net Revenue

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- -
 2021 vs. 2020
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue
Organic 25 %
Impact of acquisitions 3 %
Impact of divestitures (2) %
Constant currency change 26 %
Foreign currency translation impact on reporting 3 %
Total % change 29 %

34

Net revenue increased by $815 million, or 26%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. Net revenue increased 3% as a result of acquisitions, which was partially offset by a 2% decrease in net revenue due to the sale of Catalent USA Woodstock, Inc. (the “Blow-Fill-Seal Business”) in March 2021. Among other acquisitions, we acquired Skeletal in November 2020, and Delphi and Acorda in February 2021. In addition, we divested a facility in Australia in October 2019. Organic net revenue increased 25% on a constant-currency basis, and was primarily driven by robust demand across all our Biologics offerings, in particular demand for our drug product and drug substance offerings for COVID-19-related programs, offset in part by the loss of volume from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in the respiratory specialty platform in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment and demand decreases attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic that impacted Pharma and Consumer Health net revenue.
Gross Margin
Gross margin increased by $336 million, or 34%, in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, primarily as a result of the strong margin profile for all Biologics segment offerings, including demand across our drug product and drug substance offerings for COVID-19 related programs. Growth was offset in part by the loss in volume from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in the respiratory specialty platform in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment and decreased demand for our prescription and consumer health products in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. On a constant-currency basis, gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, increased 200 basis points to 34% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, compared to 32% in the prior year, primarily due to the higher margin profile associated with our Biologics segment.
Selling, General, and Administrative Expense
Selling, general, and administrative expense increased by $102 million, or 17%, in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, driven by $65 million of employee-related cost primarily incurred for wages and bonuses, a $15 million increase in cost for professional and consulting services, and additional selling, general and administrative expenses from acquired companies of $13 million, including $2 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense and $3 million related to the cost of various transitional services. These increases were partially offset by $12 million in reduced costs associated with health and welfare benefits and $9 million associated with travel and entertainment expenses.

The year-over-year increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses was also due to a $32 million increase in information technology spend associated with headcount increases, additional cyber security initiatives, insurance premium increases, certain market research initiatives, and COVID-19-related spend for personal protective equipment and test kits for our employees.
Other Operating Expense
Other operating expense for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2021 and 2020 was $19 million and $11 million, respectively. The year-over-year increase was attributable to an increase in impairment charges and an increase in restructuring costs primarily associated with our plan to reduce costs and optimize our infrastructure in Europe by closing our Pharma and Consumer Health facility in Bolton, U.K.
Interest Expense, net
Interest expense, net, of $110 million in fiscal 2021 decreased by $16 million, or 13%, compared to fiscal 2020, driven by savings from repayment of our formerly outstanding dollar-denominated term loans, euro-denominated term loans, euro-denominated 4.75% Senior Notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”), and U.S. dollar-denominated 4.875% Senior Notes due 2026 (the “2026 Notes”), partially offset by interest expenses on the 2028 Notes, the new tranche of dollar-denominated term loans, and the 2029 Notes. The savings also includes $6 million of additional capitalized interest costs for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the prior fiscal year due to increased capital expenditures.
For additional information concerning our debt and financing arrangements, including the changing mix of debt and equity in our capital structure, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt and Financing Arrangements” and Note 8, Long-Term Obligations and Short-Term Borrowings to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Expense, net

35

Other expense, net of $3 million for fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by an $11 million premium on early redemption of the 2026 Notes, a write-off of $4 million of previously capitalized financing charges related to our repayment of term loans and our redeemed 2026 Notes, $3 million of financing charges related to our outstanding term loans and a net foreign currency translation loss of $5 million. Those losses were partially offset by a gain of $17 million related to the fair value of the derivative liability associated with the Series A Preferred Stock.
Other expense, net for fiscal 2020 of $8 million was primarily driven by financing charges of $16 million. The financing charges included a $6 million write-off of previously capitalized financing charges related to our repaid euro-denominated term loan under our senior secured credit facilities and redeemed 2024 Notes, and a $10 million premium on early redemption of the 2024 Notes. The loss was partially offset by a foreign currency gain of $3 million and a derivative gain of $3 million related to the change in the fair value of the derivative liability arising from the dividend adjustment mechanism of our Series A Preferred Stock.
Provision for Income Taxes

Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 was $130 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $715 million. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 was $39 million relative to earnings before income taxes of $260 million. The increased income tax provision for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 over the prior-year was largely the result of an increase in pretax income and a $56 million income tax charge on the divestiture of the Blow-Fill-Seal Business. This increase was partially offset by a $47 million income tax benefit for U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from an amendment to a prior-year return and certain equity compensation deductions. The provision for income taxes was also impacted by the geographic distribution of our pretax income, the tax impact of permanent differences, restructuring, special items, and other discrete tax items that may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item.
Segment Review
The below charts depict the percentage of net revenue from each of our two reportable segments for the previous two years. Refer below for discussions regarding the segments’ net revenue and EBITDA performance and to “—Non-GAAP Metrics” for a discussion of our use of Segment EBITDA, a measure that is not defined under U.S. GAAP.

36

Our results on a segment basis for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 were as follows:

--------------------------------- -------------------------- ----- --------- ----- ------------------------------------- ----- -------- -------- ---- ---- --- -- -
(Dollars in millions) Fiscal Year Ended June 30, FX Impact Constant Currency Increase (Decrease)
 2021 2020 Change $ Change %
Biologics
Net revenue $ 1,938 $ 1,032 $ 31 $ 875 85 %
Segment EBITDA 615 239 12 364 152 %
Pharma and Consumer Health
Net revenue 2,063 2,063 58 (58) (3) %
Segment EBITDA 498 547 19 (68) (13) %
Inter-segment revenue elimination (3) (1) — (2) *
Unallocated Costs(2) 1 (146) (8) 155 107 %
Combined totals
Net revenue $ 3,998 $ 3,094 $ 89 $ 815 26 %

EBITDA from operations $ 1,114 $ 640 $ 23 $ 451 70 %

(1)    Change % calculations are based on amounts prior to rounding.
*    Not meaningful
(2) Unallocated costs include restructuring and special items, stock-based compensation, gain (loss) on sale of subsidiary, impairment charges, certain other corporate-directed costs, and other costs that are not allocated to the segments as follows:

---------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- --- ---- ---- - -----
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Impairment charges and gain (loss) on sale of assets $ (9) $ (5)
Stock-based compensation (51) (48)
Restructuring and other special items (a) (31) (42)

Gain (loss) on sale of subsidiary (b) 182 (1)
Other expense, net (c) (3) (8)
Non-allocated corporate costs, net (87) (42)
Total unallocated costs $ 1 $ (146)

(a)    Restructuring and other special items during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 include (i) transaction costs for the sale of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, (ii) transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of our facility in Anagni, Italy and the Acorda, Masthercell Global Inc. (“MaSTherCell”), Delphi, Hepatic, Skeletal and SISE transactions, and (iii) restructuring costs associated with the closure of our Pharma and Consumer Health facility in Bolton, U.K. Restructuring and other special items during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 include transaction and integration costs associated with the Anagni facility, our cell and gene therapy acquisitions, the divestiture of a facility in Australia, and other restructuring initiatives across our network of sites. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the transactions listed above.

(b)    For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, gain on sale of subsidiary is due to the divestiture of our Blow-Fill-Seal Business, which was part of our Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Loss on sale of subsidiary for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 is due to the divestiture of the Australian facility that was part of the Pharma and Consumer Health segment. Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations and Divestitures for further details on the transactions listed above.
(c)    Refer to Note 16, Other Expense, net for details of financing charges and foreign currency translation adjustments recorded within Other Expense, net in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Provided below is a reconciliation of net earnings to EBITDA from operations:

37

----------------------------- -------------------------- ----- ---- --- - ---
 Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
(Dollars in millions) 2021 2020
Net earnings $ 585 $ 221
Depreciation and amortization 289 254
Interest expense, net 110 126
Income tax expense 130 39

EBITDA from operations $ 1,114 $ 640

Biologics segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- --- -
 2021 vs. 2020
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 76 % 144 %
Impact of acquisitions 9 % 8 %

Constant currency change 85 % 152 %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting 3 % 5 %
Total % change 88 % 157 %

Net revenue in our Biologics segment increased by $875 million, or 85%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by robust end-market demand for our global drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs.
Biologics Segment EBITDA increased by $364 million, or 152%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. The increase was driven across all segment offerings by robust end-market demand for our global drug product, drug substance, and cell and gene therapy offerings, primarily related to demand for COVID-19-related programs.

Several acquisitions contributed to the Biologics inorganic growth in fiscal 2021. Our Anagni, Italy facility, part of which operates within our Biologics segment, and our MaSTherCell acquisition together increased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic basis by 9% and 8%, respectively, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, compared to the prior year.
Pharma and Consumer Health Segment

------------------------------------------------ -------------------------- - -------------- ---- -
 2021 vs. 2020
Year-Over-Year Change Fiscal Year Ended June 30,
 Net Revenue Segment EBITDA
Organic 2 % (10) %
Impact of acquisitions 2 % 1 %
Impact of divestitures (7) % (4) %
Constant currency change (3) % (13) %
Foreign exchange translation impact on reporting 3 % 4 %
Total % change — % (9) %

Net revenue in our Pharma and Consumer Health segment decreased by $58 million, or 3%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Net revenue increased 2% organically compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. The increase was driven by strong demand in our manufacturing and packaging and storage and distribution offerings in North America, development revenue growth and increased demand for the segment’s orally delivered Zydis commercial products and early-phase development programs. The increase was partially offset by the loss of volume resulting from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in our respiratory specialty platform, reduced end-market demand for prescription products within North America and Europe, as well as lower demand in consumer health products, particularly in cough, cold, and over-the-counter pain relief products attributable to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.

38

Pharma and Consumer Health Segment EBITDA decreased by $68 million, or 13%, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Segment EBITDA decreased 10% organically compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. The decrease, similar to that of net revenue, was primarily driven by the loss of volume resulting from the voluntary recall of a previously launched product in our respiratory specialty platform inclusive of charges of $32 million in the aggregate associated with the recall, a decrease in demand in both the prescription and consumer health portfolio of products, and decreased demand for other non-Zydis orally delivered commercial products. The decrease was partially offset by strong global demand in our manufacturing and packaging and storage and distribution offerings and by the margin generated from strong development revenue growth.
Our Anagni and Acorda transactions increased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic, constant-currency basis by 2% and 1%, respectively, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the prior year. We divested the Blow-Fill-Seal Business in March 2021, which decreased net revenue and Segment EBITDA on an inorganic, constant-currency basis by 7% and 4%, respectively, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the prior year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Sources and use of Cash
Our principal source of liquidity has been cash flow generated from operations and the net proceeds of capital market activities. The principal uses of cash are to fund operating and capital expenditures, business or asset acquisitions, interest payments on debt, and any mandatory or discretionary principal payment on our debt. As of June 30, 2022, and following the September 2021 execution of Amendment No. 6 (the “Sixth Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement, we had available a $725 million Revolving Credit Facility that matures in May 2024, the capacity of which is reduced by the amount of all outstanding letters of credit issued under the senior secured credit facilities and those short-term borrowings referred to as swing-line borrowings. At June 30, 2022, we had $4 million of outstanding letters of credit and no outstanding borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility.
We believe that our cash on hand, cash from operations, and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months, including the amounts expected to become due with respect to our pending capital projects. We have no significant maturity under any of our bank or note debt until the July 2027 maturity of our 2027 Notes.
On August 9, 2022, we entered into a purchase agreement to acquire Metrics Contract Services ("]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...
