================================================================================
CIK: 0000701985
Company Name: Bath & Body Works, Inc
Filing Date: 2023-03-17
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 14:07:58
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The risks described below are not our only risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently deemed to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows in a material way.
Risks related to our business:
Our net sales, profit results and cash flows are sensitive to, have been affected by and may in the future be further impacted by, general economic conditions, inflation, consumer confidence, customer spending patterns, significant health hazards or pandemics, weather or other market disruptions.
Our net sales, profit, cash flows and future growth may be affected by negative local, regional, national or international political or economic trends or developments that reduce consumers’ ability or willingness to spend. These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political, financial or social instability or conditions, geopolitical events, corruption, anti-American sentiment, social and ethnic unrest, military conflicts and terrorism, as well as changes in general economic conditions (including unemployment levels, inflation and the recent market volatility and instability in the banking sector). For example, the U.S. economy is being negatively impacted by high inflation rates, which have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact consumer demand. In addition, market disruptions due to natural disasters, significant health hazards or pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, or other major events or the prospect of these events could also impact consumer spending and confidence levels. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located, particularly in markets where we have multiple stores, or in the Columbus, Ohio region where most of our distribution centers are located, could adversely affect our business. During periods when economic or market conditions are unsettled or weak, purchases of our products have declined, and may in the future decline. In such circumstances, we have increased, and may in the future continue to increase, the number of promotional sales, which, when combined with inflationary cost pressures, have negatively affected our merchandise margin rates and, in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our net sales, operating income, cash and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.
We experience major seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the fourth quarter holiday season. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Seasonal fluctuations also affect our cash and inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of

10

Table of Contents
inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling inventory, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices or may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Separation, which could harm our business.
On August 2, 2021, we completed the separation of the Bath & Body Works and Victoria’s Secret businesses. We may incur significant additional expenses and challenges in connection with the separation of the Victoria’s Secret business, which may include expenses and challenges related to our separation from the Victoria’s Secret information technology environment. We are now a smaller and less diversified business than before the Separation, which could make us more vulnerable to changing market and economic conditions. Additionally, a potential loss of synergies from the Separation could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to result from the Separation and the anticipated benefits of the Separation are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the Separation, or if such benefits are delayed, our business could be harmed.
The Separation could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders.
We received an opinion of counsel to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. However, the opinion relies on certain assumptions, representations and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and the opinion would not be valid if such assumptions, representations and undertakings were incorrect. Furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") or the courts. If, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. In addition, if the spin-off is taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of Victoria's Secret & Co. common stock in connection with the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable dividend in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received.
Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution would be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of Victoria's Secret & Co. are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. In this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with Victoria's Secret & Co., pursuant to which Victoria's Secret & Co. agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause the spin-off or any related transactions to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. In addition, these potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us.
Victoria’s Secret & Co. continues to provide certain information technology services to us on a transitional basis as we continue to establish and transform our own information technology systems and transition certain technology services to third-party information technology service providers. We may incur costs that significantly exceed our current expectations in connection with the transition of these services to us and third parties and the transformation of our information technology capabilities. Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of this technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.
Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. We rely heavily on applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, data security and support systems including human resources and finance currently supplied to us by Victoria’s Secret & Co. pursuant to our Transition Services Agreement with Victoria’s Secret & Co. that we entered into in connection with the Separation. Victoria’s Secret & Co. is not in the business of providing information technology outsourcing services and does not have experience providing such services for third parties. Victoria's Secret & Co. may not successfully execute all of these services during the transition period. Further, we may have to expend significant efforts and/or costs materially in excess of those estimated by us to transition such services to our information technology systems or to those of our third-party technology service providers and transform our information technology capabilities to support our omnichannel strategy. We may also experience delays in connection with the transition of such services. Any interruption in, or deficiency of, these services could have a negative impact on our information technology systems or our internal controls over financial reporting or otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified associates and manage labor-related costs.
We believe one of our competitive advantages is providing positive, engaging and satisfying experiences for our customers, which requires us to have highly trained, engaged and diverse associates. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified associates, including store personnel and talented merchants. The turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these

11

Table of Contents
positions may be in short supply in some areas. Competition for such qualified individuals or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require us to incur higher labor costs. Our inability to recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay planned openings of new stores or affect the speed with which we expand. Delayed store openings, significant increases in associate turnover rates or significant increases in labor-related costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In recent years, multiple retailers have faced unionization campaigns from their workers. If we are subject to a unionization campaign from our associates, we would incur significant expenses in the form of legal and consulting fees and potentially be subject to negative publicity that could significantly disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
An increase in the costs of associate wages, benefits and insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) could adversely affect our operating results. In particular, labor shortages and the current competitive labor market have increased competition for qualified associates, which has compelled, and may continue to compel, us to pay higher wages to attract or retain qualified associates. Such increases in costs may result from general economic or competitive conditions or from government imposition of higher minimum wages at the federal, state or local level, including in connection with the increases in state minimum wages that have recently been enacted by various states. Moreover, there may be a long-term trend toward higher wages in developing markets. Any increase in such operating expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Turnover in Company leadership or other key positions, and our ability to attract and retain new talent, may have an adverse impact on Company performance.
We may experience changes in key leadership or key positions in the future. The departure of key leadership personnel can result in the loss of significant knowledge and experience. This loss of knowledge and experience can be mitigated through successful hiring and transition, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts. Attracting and retaining qualified senior leadership may be more challenging under adverse business conditions. Failure to attract and retain the right talent or to smoothly manage the transition of responsibilities resulting from such turnover could affect our ability to meet our challenges and may cause us to miss performance objectives or financial targets or disrupt our relationships with our customers, vendors or other third parties.
Our net sales depend on a volume of traffic to our stores and the availability of suitable lease space.
Most of our stores are located in retail shopping areas including malls and other types of retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of consumer traffic in those retail areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area, including “destination” retail stores, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Sales volume and retail traffic may be adversely affected by factors that we cannot control, such as economic downturns, including due to inflationary pressures, or changes in consumer demographics in a particular area, consumer trends away from brick-and-mortar retail toward online shopping, competition from internet and other retailers and other retail areas where we do not have stores, significant health hazards or pandemics, the closing of other stores or the decline in popularity or safety in the shopping areas where our stores are located and the deterioration in the financial condition of the operators or developers of the shopping areas in which our stores are located.
Part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. Additionally, we are dependent upon the suitability of the lease spaces that we currently use. The leases that we enter into are generally noncancelable leases with initial terms of 10 years. If we determine that it is no longer economical to operate a store and decide to close it, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term.
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our continued growth and success depends in part on new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions.
Our continued growth and success depends in part on our ability to open and operate new, primarily off-mall stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to partner with developers and landlords to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs and on acceptable timelines, the hiring and training of qualified personnel and the integration of new stores into existing operations. There can be no assurance we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

12

Table of Contents
Our international operations and our plans for international expansion include risks that could impact our results and reputation.
We intend to continue to operate internationally and further expand into international markets, including through partner arrangements. The risks associated with international markets include, among others, difficulties in attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brand, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, cultures or religious norms and seasonal differences in the international markets. Any of these difficulties may lead to disruption in the overall timing of our international expansion efforts and increased costs. Further, entry into other markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with an established market presence in such markets. Other risks include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, reliance on franchise and other partners that we do not control, volatility in the geopolitical landscape, restrictions on the repatriation of funds held internationally, disruptions or delays in shipments, occurrence of significant health hazards or pandemics, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, political instability and foreign governmental regulation. Such expansions will also have upfront investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient revenues to achieve expected operational and financial performance.
Further, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. See “Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations” below.
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our licensees, franchisees and wholesalers could take actions that could harm our business or brand images.
We have global representation through digital sites and stores independently owned and/or operated by our franchise partners. Although we have criteria to evaluate and select prospective partners, the level of control we can exercise over our partners is limited, and the quality and success of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. For example, our partners may not have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and may not hire and train qualified store managers and other personnel. Further, we have no control as to whether our partners comply with applicable laws and regulations in the international markets in which they operate. Our brand image and reputation may suffer materially, and our sales could decline, if our partners do not operate successfully. These risks could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our direct channel business includes risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results.
Our direct channel (also referred to as digital or e-commerce) is subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through our direct channels; domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it outside our control; our ability to anticipate and implement innovations in technology and logistics in order to appeal to existing and potential customers who increasingly rely on multiple channels to meet their shopping needs; and the failure of and risks related to the systems that operate our and our third-party partners' web infrastructure, websites and the related support systems, including computer viruses, malware (including, without limitation, ransomware), unauthorized access to and theft of customer information, privacy violations, information technology and vendor system failures, electronic break-ins, disruption of critical services caused by security threats and similar disruptions.
Our failure to maintain efficient and uninterrupted order-taking and fulfillment operations could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We utilize third-party service providers for order management and for a majority of our fulfillment services. If these third-party service providers do not maintain efficient and uninterrupted service, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, merchandise delivery delays, loss of sales, stranded inventory, cancellation charges or excessive promotional activity to clear inventory. Further, we may have difficulty replacing these third-party service providers and there can be no assurance we can do so in a timely manner or on terms favorable to us. The satisfaction of our direct channel customers depends on their timely receipt of merchandise. If we encounter difficulties with the distribution facilities, or if the facilities were to shut down for any reason, including as a result of a pandemic, fire, natural disaster or work stoppage, we could face shortages of inventory; we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers; we could face regulatory scrutiny; and our customer may be dissatisfied.
Any of these issues could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our ability to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand image.
Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand image. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for store and merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity, including information publicized through traditional or social media platforms and similar venues such as blogs, websites and other forums, may affect our reputation and brand and, consequently, reduce demand for our merchandise, even if such publicity is unverified or inaccurate.

13

Table of Contents
Failure to comply with or the perception that the Company has failed to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, privacy, systems and data security and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls, to maintain the security of customer, associate, third-party and company information or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.
Our ability, or perceived inability, to complete environmental, social and governance ("ESG") initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our reputation.
There has been an increased focus, including from investors and other stakeholders, the general public and U.S. and foreign governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on ESG initiatives, including with respect to climate change, greenhouse gas emissions, packaging and waste, diversity, equity and inclusion, worker pay and benefits, human rights, sustainable supply chain practices, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land, energy and water use. As part of our ongoing efforts, we maintain an ESG function to provide direction and coordinate ESG work throughout the Company. We anticipate increased public, regulatory and investor pressure to expand our disclosures in these areas, make further commitments, set additional targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them, which could expose us to market, operational, regulatory, legal and execution costs or risks. The metrics we disclose, whether they are based on the standards we set for ourselves or those set by others, may influence our reputation and the value of our brand. Our failure to achieve progress on our metrics and successfully achieve our targets and goals on a timely basis, or at all, could adversely affect our business, financial performance and growth. By electing to set and share publicly these metrics, targets and goals and expand upon our disclosures, our business may also face increased scrutiny related to ESG activities. As a result, we could damage our reputation and the value of our brand if we fail to act responsibly. Any harm to our reputation resulting from setting these metrics, targets and goals or expanding our disclosure or our failure, or perceived failure, to meet such metrics, targets and goals could adversely affect our business, financial performance and growth.
We could also be affected by the physical effects of climate change and other environmental issues, to the extent such issues adversely affect the general economy, adversely impact our supply chain or our stores or increase the costs of our products and other supplies needed for our operations. In addition, future domestic and international legislative and regulatory efforts to combat climate change or other environmental considerations could result in increased regulation and additional taxes and other expenses in a manner that adversely affects our business, financial performance and growth.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our enterprise-wide profit optimization efforts to reduce expenses and improve operating efficiency in the business.
In February 2023, we announced that we are undertaking enterprise-wide profit optimization efforts to reduce expenses and improve operating efficiency in the business. We recently engaged external advisors to assist in a comprehensive analysis of margin expansion and expense reduction opportunities with the goal of positioning the business for improved profitability. The estimated cost savings associated with this effort are preliminary and may vary materially based on various factors including: time to execute these efforts and changes in management's assumptions and projections, which may be caused by a change in customer behavior due to macroeconomic conditions or otherwise. As a result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected costs may occur, which could result in our not realizing all, or any, of the anticipated benefits of these efforts.
If our marketing, advertising and promotional programs are unsuccessful, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected.
Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise are influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brand and the location of and service offered in our stores and through our direct business. Although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers through various media, including social media, websites, mobile applications, email and print, some of our competitors may expend more for their programs than we do or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Our programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our ability to adequately maintain, enforce and protect our trade names, trademarks and patents could have an impact on our brand image and ability to penetrate new markets.
We believe that our trade names, trademarks and patents are important assets and an essential element of our strategy. We have obtained or applied for federal registration of these trade names, trademarks and patents and have applied for or obtained registrations in many foreign countries. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such applied for registrations or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement or other violation of our intellectual property

14

Table of Contents
rights by others. In particular, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If any third party copies our products, our or our partners' websites or our or our partners' stores in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, it could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Third parties may assert rights in or ownership of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, or trademarks that are similar to our trademarks, or claim that we are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction and may be required to enter into costly license agreements, be required to pay significant royalties, settlement costs or damages, be required to rebrand our products and/or be prevented from selling some of our products.
Our ability to compete favorably in our highly competitive segments of the retail industry could impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
The retail industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales with a broad range of other retailers, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. In addition to the traditional store-based retailers, we also compete with direct marketers or retailers that sell similar lines of merchandise and who target customers through online channels. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, assortment, quality, image presentation and fulfillment are all competitive factors in both the store-based and online channels.
Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available and trends across our product categories may favor our competitors. We rely to a greater degree than some of our competitors on physical locations in retail centers. Therefore, declines in traffic to such locations may affect us more significantly than our competitors. Some of our competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same retail centers as our stores. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in retail centers.
Increased competition, combined with declines in store and/or direct channel traffic, could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of pricing power and market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our ability to manage the life cycles of our brand and to remain current with trends and launch new product lines successfully could impact the image and relevance of our brand.
Our success depends in part on management’s ability to effectively manage the life cycles of our brand, to anticipate and respond to changing preferences and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. We are dependent on certain product categories, and a decline in customer demand in these product categories could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Customer demands and trends change rapidly. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing preferences or trends or we misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower, potentially resulting in significant amounts of unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions or price markdowns and potentially discontinue a product line. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by our ability to adequately source, distribute and sell merchandise and other materials on a global basis.
We source merchandise and other materials directly in domestic and international markets. We distribute merchandise and other materials globally to our partners in international locations and to our stores. Many of our imports and exports are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements, including existing or potential duties, tariffs or safeguard quotas. We also compete with other companies for production facilities.
We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business on a global basis. For example:
•political instability, geopolitical conflict, including the war between Russia and Ukraine, environmental hazards or natural disasters which could negatively affect international economies, financial markets and business activity;
•significant health hazards or pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, which could result in closed factories, distribution centers and/or stores, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;
•imposition of new or retaliatory trade duties, sanctions or taxes and other charges on imports or exports;
•evolving, new or complex legal and regulatory matters;
•volatility in currency exchange rates;

15

Table of Contents
•local business practice and political issues (including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards) which may result in adverse publicity or threatened or actual adverse consumer actions, including boycotts;
•delays or disruptions in shipping and transportation and related pricing impacts;
•disruption due to labor disputes; and
•changing expectations regarding product safety due to new legislation or other factors.
Certain goods that we import are sourced from third-party suppliers in China. Our ability to successfully import such materials may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. laws. For example, in December 2021, the U.S. Congress passed the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act (“UFLPA”), which imposed a presumptive ban on the import of goods to the U.S. that are made, wholly or in part, in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China (“XUAR”) or by persons that participate in certain programs in the XUAR that entail the use of forced labor. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) has published both a list of entities that are known to utilize forced labor, and a list of commodities that are most at risk, such as cotton, tomatoes and silica-based products. Although none of our Chinese suppliers are located in the XUAR, we do not currently have full visibility to the entirety of each supplier's separate supply chains to be able to ensure that the raw materials or other inputs they use to manufacture their goods are not produced in the XUAR. As a result of the UFLPA, materials we import into the U.S. could be held by the CBP based on a suspicion that inputs used in such materials originated from the XUAR or that they may have been produced by Chinese suppliers accused of participating in forced labor, pending our providing satisfactory evidence to the contrary. Among other consequences, such an outcome could result in negative publicity that harms our brand and reputation and could result in a delay or complete inability to import such materials, which could result in inventory shortages and greater supply chain compliance costs.
We also rely upon third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to and from our distribution centers, to our stores and to our customers. Our utilization of these delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in labor costs and fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and associate strikes and inclement weather, which may impact our transportation providers’ ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. Further, the rapid increase in demand for online shopping has led to increased pressure on the capacity of our fulfillment network.
The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains and created significant volatility of financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have the potential to significantly impact our supply chain if the factories that manufacture our products, the distribution centers where we manage our inventory, or the operations of our logistics and other service providers are disrupted, are temporarily closed or experience worker shortages. For instance, the COVID-19 pandemic previously caused, and may in the future cause, vessel, container and other transportation shortages, labor shortages and port congestion globally, which delayed, and may in the future delay, inventory orders and, in turn, deliveries to our customers and availability in our or our partners’ stores and e-commerce sites. Further, disruptions or delays in shipments may have negative impacts to pricing of certain components of our products. In addition, the impact of COVID-19 on macroeconomic conditions may impact the proper functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates.
We rely on a number of vendor and distribution facilities located in the same vicinity, making our business susceptible to local and regional disruptions or adverse conditions.
To achieve the necessary speed and agility in producing our products, we rely heavily on vendor and distribution facilities in close proximity to our headquarters in Central Ohio. As a result of geographic concentration of many of the vendor and distribution facilities that we rely upon, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as accidents, system failures, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes and other unforeseen events and circumstances. Any significant interruption in the operations of these facilities could lead to inventory issues, increased costs or interruptions to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
A change in the relationship with our key vendors could have a material effect on our business.
We rely on a limited number of vendors to support our inventory purchasing needs. In 2022, our largest vendor supplied approximately 13% of our total merchandise purchases and our largest five vendors supplied approximately 38% of our total merchandise purchases on a combined basis. Our business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our vendors and on our vendors’ ability or willingness to sell quality products to us at favorable prices and on other favorable terms. Many factors outside of our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell us products on favorable terms. For example, financial or operational difficulties that our vendors may face could increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or our ability to source products from them.

16

Table of Contents
We may be impacted by our vendors’ ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner, meet quality standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
We purchase products from third-party vendors. Factors outside our control, such as production issues, shipping delays, quality problems or natural disasters, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns.
In addition, quality problems could result in product liability judgments or widespread product recalls that may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on product availability, reaction of competitors and consumer attitudes. Even if product liability claims are unsuccessful or are not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertions could adversely impact our reputation with existing and potential customers and our brand image.
Our business could also suffer if our third-party vendors fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our associates and third-party compliance auditors visit and monitor the operations of our third-party vendors, we do not control these vendors or their practices. Violations of labor, environmental or other laws by third-party vendors used by us or the divergence of a third-party vendor’s or partner’s labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation.
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, our royalty arrangements are calculated based on sales in local currency and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the short-term negative impacts of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Hedging would generally not be effective in offsetting the long-term impact of sustained shifts in foreign exchange rates on our business results. As a result, the fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our results may be affected by fluctuations in product input costs.
Product input costs, including freight, labor and raw materials, fluctuate subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand or other external conditions, such as inflationary conditions, weather and climate conditions, geopolitical conflicts and wars, energy costs, natural events or disasters, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, labor shortages, transportation issues, fuel costs, product recalls, governmental regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and in many instances are unpredictable. These factors may result in an increase in our product input costs. We may not be able to, or may elect not to, fully pass these increases on to our customers which may adversely impact our profit margins. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our results may be affected by fluctuations in energy costs.
Energy costs have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to changes in factors beyond our control, such as weather and climate conditions or natural events or disasters, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, high demand for renewable energy, inflationary conditions, labor shortages, transportation issues, fuel costs, geopolitical conflicts and wars, governmental regulation and other factors. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores, distribution centers and other Company locations and costs to purchase products from our manufacturers. A continual rise in energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Our results may be impacted by our ability to adequately protect our assets from loss and theft.
Our assets are subject to loss, including those caused by illegal or unethical conduct by associates, customers, vendors, partners or unaffiliated third parties. We experience events that cause inventory shrinkage, and we cannot assure that incidences of loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce these losses. Higher rates of loss

17

Table of Contents
or increased security costs to combat theft could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by increases in the cost of mailing, paper, printing or other order fulfillment logistics.
Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs will affect the cost of our order fulfillment and promotional mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting. Future paper and postal rate increases could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to recover these costs or if we are unable to implement more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. We may face unexpected costs in transportation, warehousing or other logistics-related services. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We self-insure certain risks and may be impacted by unfavorable claims experience.
We are self-insured for various types of insurable risks including associate medical benefits, workers’ compensation, property, general liability and automobile, up to certain stop-loss limits. Claims are difficult to predict and may be volatile. Any adverse claims experience could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We significantly rely on our and our third-party service providers', including Victoria's Secret & Co., ability to implement and sustain information technology systems and to protect associated data and system availability.
Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our and our third-party service providers' and vendors' information technology systems. Our information technology systems, as well as those of our service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to damage, interruption, service availability or breach from a variety of sources, including cyberattacks, ransomware attacks, telecommunication failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite maintaining comprehensive measures, some of our systems, e-commerce environments and servers and those of our service providers and vendors are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, malware (including, without limitation, ransomware), computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Such incidents have disrupted, and could in the future further disrupt, our operations (whether directly or due to disruptions of our service providers’ and vendors’ operations) including our ability to timely ship and track product orders and project inventory requirements and lead to interruptions or delays in our supply chain. Additionally, these types of problems could result in an actual or perceived breach of confidential customer, merchandise, financial, associate or other important information (including personal information), which could result in damage to our reputation, costly litigation, customer complaints, negative publicity, breach notification obligations, regulatory or administrative sanctions, inquiries, orders or investigations, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach or penalties for violations of applicable laws or regulations. The increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices may also heighten these and other operational risks. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems or events may nevertheless cause failures in, or unauthorized access to, our and our third-party service providers’ and vendors' information technology systems. Sustained or repeated system disruptions that interrupt our ability to process orders and deliver products to the stores or directly to our customers, impact our ability to process transactions in our stores, impact our customers’ ability to access our websites and mobile applications in a timely manner or expose confidential customer, merchandise, financial, associate or other important information (including personal information) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We are party to a multi-year Transition Services Agreement with Victoria's Secret & Co. for certain information technology services and systems to support the day-to-day needs for most areas of technology. Over time, we will transition these information technology capabilities from Victoria's Secret & Co. to implement point-of-sale, mobile applications, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, human resources and financial systems to the platforms of our other third-party service providers and vendors or on to our own platforms, some of which are yet to be established.
As systems are provided, supported and managed by Victoria's Secret & Co. and transitioned to us or our third-party service providers or vendors, we are required to establish a number of new information technology systems as well as make hardware, software and code modifications and upgrades to certain existing information technology systems. The transition involves replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, acquiring new systems with new functionality and engaging with qualified third-party service providers and vendors to utilize their systems. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying our information technology systems as well as the risks of transitioning information technology services to third-party service providers and vendors, including in each case risks relative to data integrity, internal controls over financial reporting and system disruptions. Information technology system disruptions or data corruption, if not appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We use, and as part of the transition of information technology services from Victoria’s Secret & Co. will increasingly use, third-party service providers to store, transmit and otherwise process certain of this information on our behalf, and our third-party service providers are subject to cybersecurity and privacy risks similar to us. Due to applicable laws and regulations or

18

Table of Contents
contractual obligations, we may be held responsible for any cybersecurity incidents or privacy violations attributed to our service providers as they relate to the information we share with them or to which they are granted access. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and maintain a standard of security (such as implementing reasonable measures) and comply with applicable law, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a security breach or privacy violation will not occur in connection with their systems and practices.
Any significant compromise or breach of our data security, including the security of customer, associate, third-party or Company information, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In the operation of our business, we collect, use, transmit and otherwise process a large volume of personal and other confidential, proprietary and sensitive information. Information systems are susceptible to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Breaches or failures of security involving our information systems, including those provided, managed and supported by Victoria's Secret & Co., or those of any of our other third-party service providers have occurred, and in the future may occur. Any significant compromise or breach of our data security, media reports about such an incident, whether accurate or not, or our failure to make adequate or timely disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event, whether due to delayed discovery or a failure to follow existing protocols, could significantly damage our reputation with our customers, associates, investors and other third parties, cause the disclosure of personal, confidential, proprietary or sensitive customer, associate, third-party or Company information, cause interruptions to our operations and distraction to our management, cause our customers to stop shopping with us, inhibit our ability to attract new customers and result in significant legal, regulatory and financial liabilities and lost revenues. Compounding these risks is the complexity of our information systems, which are a collection of our and our third-party service providers’ systems, and increased associated risks related to transitioning information systems from Victoria's Secret & Co. to other third-party service providers and us.
While we train our associates, have implemented systems, processes and security measures to protect our physical facilities and information technology systems against unauthorized access and prevent data loss and vetted our third-party service providers' systems, processes and security measures, there is no guarantee that these procedures are adequate to safeguard against all data security threats to us or our third-party service providers. Despite these measures, we have been and may in the future be vulnerable to targeted or random attacks on our systems that could lead to security breaches, denial of service, vandalism, computer viruses, malware, ransomware, misplaced, corrupted or lost data, programming and/or human errors or similar events. Our systems and facilities (and the systems of our third-party service providers) are also subject to compromise from internal threats, such as theft, misuse, unauthorized access or other improper actions by associates, contractors and third-party service providers with otherwise legitimate access to our (or such third-party service providers') systems, websites, mobile applications or facilities (which risks may be heightened as a result of our associates working-from-home). Furthermore, because the methods of cyberattack and deception change frequently, are increasingly complex and sophisticated and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including nation-state actors, despite our reasonable efforts to ensure the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our systems, websites and mobile applications, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate, detect, appropriately react and respond to or implement effective preventative measures against all cybersecurity incidents, and our third-party service providers may be subject to the same risks.
We have and may in the future be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against, respond to and recover from any potential, attempted or existing cybersecurity incidents. As cybersecurity incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. In addition, our remediation efforts may not be successful or may not be completed in a timely manner. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, there could be public announcements regarding any cybersecurity incidents and any steps we take to respond to or remediate such incidents, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these announcements to be negative, it could, among other things, have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.
While we currently maintain cybersecurity insurance, such insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to breaches, violations of law, failures or other data security-related incidents, and we cannot be certain that cyber insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

19

Table of Contents
Risks related to our common stock:
Our stock price may be volatile.
Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in our actual or projected performance or the financial performance of other companies in the retail industry. Any guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe are reasonably attainable at the time guidance is given. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside investment analysts or others, our stock price could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk.
The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. In particular, our common stock may in the future be traded by short sellers which may put pressure on the supply and demand for our common stock, further influencing volatility in its market price. Public perception and other factors outside of our control may additionally impact the stock price of companies like us that garner a disproportionate degree of public attention, regardless of actual operating performance.
If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends or repurchase our shares at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be impacted.
Quarterly cash dividends and share repurchase programs have historically been part of our capital allocation strategy. We are not required to declare dividends or make any share repurchases under our share repurchase programs in the future. For example, in 2020, we did not repurchase any of our shares, and we suspended our quarterly cash dividends due to the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Board will determine our future levels of dividend payments and share repurchase authorizations, if any, giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity and the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements, as well as financial and other conditions which may be beyond our control. Any reduction, or failure, to pay dividends or repurchase our shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and our stock price.
Shareholder activism could cause us to incur significant expense, impact the execution of our business strategy and have an adverse effect on our business.
Shareholder activism, which can take many forms and arise in a variety of situations, could result in substantial costs and divert our attention and resources from our business and our ability to execute our strategic plans. Additionally, such shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with our associates, customers or service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant fees and other expenses related to activist shareholder matters, including for third-party advisors. Our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any shareholder activism.
Risks related to our indebtedness:
Our ability to maintain our credit ratings could affect our ability to access capital and could increase our interest expense.
The credit rating agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. A deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our Company or our industry and could limit our access to funding for our operations. We are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs will likely increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, changes to our credit ratings could affect our future interest costs.
We may be unable to service or refinance our debt or maintain compliance with restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, including our asset-backed revolving credit facility.
We currently have substantial indebtedness. Our asset-backed revolving credit facility (the "ABL Facility") contains a covenant and negative covenants that under certain circumstances require maintenance of a certain financial ratio and also, under certain conditions, restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and make other restricted payments as defined in the agreement. Our cash flow from operations provides the primary source of funds for our debt service payments. If our cash flow from operations declines, we may be unable to service or refinance our current debt. If we fail to comply with any covenant, including our financial covenant, it could result in an event of default and our lenders could terminate the commitments under our ABL Facility and make the entire debt incurred thereunder immediately due and payable, or we may be forced to sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital, which would dilute our stockholders’ interests.

20

Table of Contents
The interest rates on our credit facilities may be impacted by the phase-out of LIBOR and the transition to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”).
Interest rates on U.S. borrowings under our ABL Facility are based on LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that administers LIBOR) announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR by the end of 2023. It remains unclear what rate or rates may develop as accepted alternatives to LIBOR or what the effect of such changes will be on the markets for LIBOR-based financial instruments. As of the date hereof, the current recommended replacement for USD-LIBOR is SOFR. While we currently do not have any borrowings outstanding under our ABL Facility, any transition away from LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the applicable interest rate is complex and will affect the cost of servicing any future debt under our ABL Facility. Although the ABL Facility provides for alternative base rates, the composition and characteristics of such alternative base rates are not the same as those of LIBOR, and the consequences of the phase-out of LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted at this time.
Risks related to law and regulation:
Changes in laws, regulations or technology platform rules relating to privacy and data security, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations, or contractual or other obligations relating to privacy and data security, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We are, and may increasingly become, subject to various laws, directives, industry standards and regulations, as well as contractual obligations, relating to privacy and data security in the jurisdictions in which we operate and may in the future operate. The legal and regulatory environment related to privacy and data security is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. These laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied differently over time and from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and it is possible that the laws and regulations will be interpreted and applied in ways that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In the U.S., privacy and data protection are regulated at federal, state and local levels. Various federal and state regulators, including governmental agencies like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission, have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations concerning privacy and data security and have prioritized privacy and data security violations for enforcement actions. Certain state laws are, and in the future may continue to be, more stringent or broader in scope, or offer greater individual rights, with respect to personal information than federal, international or other state laws, and such laws may differ from each other, all of which complicates compliance efforts and increases risks to our business.
These laws and regulations range from the “sectoral” variety (i.e., laws that govern specific practices, services or technologies) to omnibus laws (i.e., laws that comprehensively seek to govern all aspects of data processing practices). As an omnichannel retailer, we are subject to both.
In North America, we are subject to sectoral laws that impose different enforcement regimes, whether enforced by government agencies or class action litigants, with fines and statutory damages that can result in significant exposure when applied to large customer segments. Illustrative of the sectoral variety are laws that govern telephonic communications (e.g., the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act), email communications (e.g., the Federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act and Canada’s Anti-Spam Legislation), the use of biometric technology (e.g., the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act), the printing of payment card numbers on certain transaction receipts (e.g., the Federal Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act), the use of call recordings (e.g., federal and state laws governing unlawful surveillance and consent for recordings), the collection of consumer information at retail point of sale (e.g., the California Song-Beverly Act), and the collection of driver’s license information (e.g., state laws governing the scanning of government identification).
We are further subject to omnibus privacy and data protection laws. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) broadly governs data privacy practices, increases privacy rights for California residents and imposes obligations on companies that process their personal information. Among other things, the CCPA requires covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers and provide such consumers data protection and privacy rights, including the ability to opt-out of certain disclosures of their personal information and the ability to access and delete personal information. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that result in the loss of certain classifications of personal information. This private right of action may increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. Furthermore, the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (“CPRA”) became effective on January 1, 2023. The CPRA imposes additional obligations on companies covered by the legislation, including by expanding California residents’ rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information. The CPRA also created a new state agency that is vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA and CPRA. Other states and countries have passed comprehensive data privacy laws that are similar to the CCPA and CPRA, further complicating the legal landscape, and similar bills are making their way through several state legislatures. In addition, laws in all 50 U.S. states require businesses to provide notice to

21

Table of Contents
consumers (and, in some cases, to regulators) of data breaches, which are when certain types of personal information have been accessed or acquired without authorization. State laws are changing rapidly, and there are deliberations in Congress regarding the text of a new comprehensive federal data privacy law to which we would become subject if it is enacted. Such a law could add complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions and potential legal risk. Moreover, it could require additional investment of resources in compliance programs, impact strategies and the availability of previously useful data and result in increased compliance costs or changes in business practices and policies.
While most of our international operations are conducted through franchise, license and wholesale arrangements, we are also subject to certain international laws, regulations and standards in certain international jurisdictions and may be subject to additional international laws, regulations and standards, whether existing or enacted in the future, that apply broadly to the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal information. In Canada, we are subject to the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (“PIPEDA”) as well as substantially similar provincial privacy laws. These privacy statutes broadly govern the entire lifecycle of personal information, enumerating principles that govern accountability; purpose; consent; limitations on collection, use, disclosure and retention; accuracy; safeguards; transparency; right to access and correct; and complaint-handling. Certain of the statutes also contain a mandatory breach notification regime. Canadian federal and provincial authorities enforce these laws. Privacy regulators have an express obligation to investigate complaints and have the authority to initiate investigations. Under PIPEDA, the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada has the power to require an organization to enter into a compliance agreement and failure to comply may result in a court order or court proceedings. A complainant may also appeal to Federal Court, and the court has broad authority including awarding damages. Similarly, the European Union's ("EU") General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) greatly increased the European Commission’s jurisdictional reach of its laws and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data. Further, the GDPR serves and has served as a model for other jurisdictions’ data protection laws, including without limitation, the U.K.'s Data Protection Act of 2018, which became law after the U.K. left the EU. Under the GDPR, EU member states have enacted certain implementing legislation that adds to and/or further interprets the GDPR requirements and, depending on the extent and degree to which we conduct business in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and U.K., potentially extends our obligations and potential liability for failing to meet such obligations. The GDPR, together with national legislation, regulations and guidelines of the EEA states and the U.K. governing the processing of personal data, impose strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, use, retain, protect, disclose, transfer and otherwise process personal data, and other international jurisdictions are expected to pass similar laws that may include even more stringent requirements. Changes in such international laws or changes in our business strategy such as direct expansions into additional jurisdictions may cause us to incur additional compliance costs, increase our risks of being subject to lawsuits, complaints and/or regulatory investigations or fines, or restrict our ability to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate or may in the future operate. Such international laws, and our compliance with such laws, could impact the manner in which we do business and the geographical location or segregation of our relevant operations and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs, such as costs related to organizational changes, investing in and implementing additional data protection technologies and other safeguards and training associates and engaging consultants, which are likely to increase over time. In addition, such requirements may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and distract management or divert resources from other initiatives and projects, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any failure or perceived failure by us or our partners to comply with any applicable federal, state or similar foreign laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security could result in damage to our reputation and our relationship with our customers, as well as proceedings or litigation by governmental agencies or customers, including class action privacy and data-protection litigation in certain jurisdictions, which could subject us to significant fines, sanctions, awards, penalties or judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by our ability to comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable foreign and domestic laws and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the SEC and the NYSE, among others. Although we have put in place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our associates, subcontractors, vendors, licensees, franchisees and other third parties could take actions that violate these laws and regulations. Any violations of such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common stock and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
It can be difficult to comply with sometimes conflicting statutes or regulations in local, national or foreign jurisdictions as well as new or changing laws and regulations. Also, changes in such laws and regulations could make operating our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs for certain merchandise or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for

22

Table of Contents
sale. We operate stores in all 50 states, Canada and Puerto Rico, which requires us to comply with a myriad of provincial, state and local laws pertaining to all aspects of our business, including our associates and consumers. The trend for states and localities in the United States to legislate in the absence of national laws passed by the U.S. Congress has greatly increased the complexity of legal compliance for us. It may be difficult for us to comply with these laws, compliance may be costly and compliance and associated costs may negatively impact our operations.
We may be adversely impacted by certain compliance or legal matters.
We, along with third parties we do business with, are subject to complex compliance and litigation risks. Actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, tax, customer, employment, wage and hour, privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. The cost of defending against these types of claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims, whether by settlement or adverse court decision, may harm our business. Further, potential claimants may be encouraged to bring suits based on a settlement from us or adverse court decisions against us. We cannot currently assess the likely outcome of such suits, but if the outcome were negative, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In addition, we may be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and stockholders, that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common stock and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by changes in taxation, trade and other regulatory requirements.
We are subject to income tax in local, national and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
There is increased uncertainty with respect to tax policy and trade relations between the U.S. and other countries, including as a result of any executive action taken or legislative priorities set by the current U.S. presidential administration. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.
None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Company-operated
The following table provides the location, use and size of our Company-operated distribution, fulfillment, office and product development facilities as of January 28, 2023:

------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------
Location Use ApproximateSquareFootage
Columbus, Ohio area Office, distribution and fulfillment centers and shipping facilities 4,951,000
Other North America Office and product development/design 69,000

We own five office, distribution center and shipping facilities located in the Columbus, Ohio area comprising approximately 3.9 million square feet. In addition, during Fall of 2022, we completed construction of a new 1.1 million square foot leased direct channel fulfillment center located near Columbus, Ohio.
We also lease various other office and product development/design locations in North America, primarily in New York.
As of January 28, 2023, we operated 1,693 and 109 retail stores located in leased facilities throughout the U.S. and Canada, respectively. A substantial portion of our U.S. store leases generally have an initial term of 10 years, while our Canadian store leases generally have initial terms of 5 to 10 years. Our store leases expire at various dates between 2023 and 2034.

23

Table of Contents
Third-party Operated Fulfillment and Distribution Centers
We utilize six permanent third-party operated direct channel fulfillment centers in North America, comprising approximately 3.2 million square feet. We also utilize six third-party operated regional distribution centers in North America, comprising approximately 1.1 million square feet, that enable us to position inventory geographically closer to our customers.
International Partner-operated Stores
As of January 28, 2023, our partners operated 427 retail stores in more than 45 international countries.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
We are a defendant in a variety of lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. Actions filed against our Company from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, tax, customer, employment, wage and hour, data privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any litigation, in the opinion of management, our current legal proceedings are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act Cases
We were named as a defendant in three putative class actions: Smidga, et al. v. Bath & Body Works, LLC in the Allegheny County, Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas; Dahlin v. Bath & Body Works, LLC in the Santa Barbara County, California Superior Court; and Blanco v. Bath & Body Works, LLC in the Cook County, Illinois Circuit Court. The complaints each allege that we violated the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act by printing more than the last five digits of credit or debit card numbers on customers’ receipts and, among other things, seek statutory damages, attorneys’ fees and costs. Each of these cases are in the preliminary stages of litigation. We believe that we have strong defenses to the claims and intend to continue to vigorously defend ourself against the allegations and do not believe that the resolution of the cases, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not applicable.

24

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
Market Information
Our common stock is traded on the NYSE. As of January 28, 2023, the Company had approximately 30,000 stockholders of record. However, including active associates who participate in our associate stock purchase plan, associates who own shares through our sponsored retirement plan and others holding shares in broker accounts under street names, we estimate the shareholder base as of January 28, 2023 to be approximately 222,000.
Dividend Policy
We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share during each quarter of 2022. Our Board will determine future dividends after giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity, the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements, the macroeconomic environment as well as financial and other conditions existing at the time. We use cash flow generated from operating and financing activities to fund our dividends. For additional discussion regarding our dividends, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included under Item 7. of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Performance Graph
The following graph shows the changes, over the past five-year period, in the value of $100 invested in our common stock, the Standard & Poor’s ("S&P") 500 Composite Stock Price Index and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retail Composite Index.
COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN (a)(b)
AMONG BATH & BODY WORKS, INC., THE S&P 500 INDEX AND THE S&P 500 RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX

_______________
(a)This table represents $100 invested in stock or in index at the closing price on February 3, 2018, including reinvestment of dividends.
(b)Stock prices prior to August 3, 2021 have been adjusted to give effect to the Victoria's Secret & Co. spin-off.

25

Table of Contents
Common Stock Repurchases
The following table provides our repurchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2022:

------------- --------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ------- - -------
Fiscal Period TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased (a) Average PricePaid perShare (b) Total Numberof SharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnouncedPrograms (c) MaximumDollar Value of Sharesthat MayYet be PurchasedUnder the Programs (c)
 (in thousands) (in thousands)
November 2022 5 $ 33.07 — $ 187,775
December 2022 7 41.27 — 187,775
January 2023 2 43.72 — 187,775
Total 14 —
 ________________
(a)The total number of shares repurchased represent shares in connection with tax payments due upon vesting of associate restricted stock and performance share unit awards and the use of our stock to pay the exercise price on associate stock options.
(b)The average price paid per share includes any broker commissions.
(c)For additional share repurchase program information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

ITEM 6. [Reserved]

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") as codified in the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). The following information should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Our operating results are generally impacted by economic changes and, therefore, we monitor the retail environment using, among other things, certain key industry performance indicators including competitor performance and store traffic data. These indicators can provide insight into consumer spending patterns and shopping behavior in the current retail environment and assist us in assessing our performance as well as the potential impact of industry trends on our future operating results. Additionally, we evaluate a number of key performance indicators including comparable sales, gross profit, operating income and other performance metrics such as sales per average selling square foot in assessing our performance.
On August 2, 2021, we completed the tax-free spin-off of our Victoria's Secret business, which included the Victoria's Secret and PINK brands, into an independent publicly traded company. Accordingly, the operating results of, and fees to separate, the Victoria's Secret business are reported in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax in the Consolidated Statements of Income for all periods presented. Unless otherwise noted, all amounts, percentages and discussions reflect only the results of operations and financial condition of our continuing operations.
A discussion regarding our Financial Condition and Results of Operations for 2022 compared to 2021 (including the fourth quarter thereof) is presented below. A discussion regarding our Financial Condition and Results of Operations for 2021 compared to 2020 (including the fourth quarter thereof) can be found under Item 7. of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 29, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 18, 2022.
Executive Overview
Fiscal 2022 was our first full-year as a standalone company following the separation of Bath & Body Works and Victoria’s Secret & Co. in August 2021. During the year, we built on the past two years of growth, performing above pre-pandemic levels. Specifically, we focused on effectively navigating a challenging macroeconomic environment, controlling costs and improving efficiencies while accelerating investments in the business to drive our long-term growth and profitability and enhance stockholder value. We took the following actions to ensure the long-term profitability and success of our business:
•Leveraged agility in our vertically integrated and predominantly domestic supply chain, effectively managing inventory, responding to customer preferences and chasing our best performing products.
•Successfully launched our loyalty program nationwide in the U.S.

26

Table of Contents
•Assessed and reacted quickly to a dynamic and challenging macroeconomic environment that included significant inflationary pressures, labor shortages and global supply chain challenges.
•Implemented purposeful changes to our organization to optimize our operations, costs and structure and improve our profitability.
•Completed the construction of our first direct fulfillment distribution center, which we expect will provide us with additional capacity for our direct channel and enhanced fulfillment capabilities for our business.
•Accelerated our information technology separation from Victoria’s Secret & Co. to support our long-term growth and profitability.
•Expanded BOPIS availability to over 800 more Company-operated stores, ending the year with BOPIS capabilities in more than 1,300 stores.
Fiscal 2022 Overview
For 2022, Net Sales decreased $322 million, or 4%, to $7.560 billion, compared to 2021. In our stores and direct channels, Net Sales decreased 4% to $5.476 billion, and 8% to $1.745 billion, respectively. In the stores channel, the decrease was primarily related to a decline in average dollar sales, partially offset by the incremental Net Sales originating from new stores. In the direct channel, the decrease was primarily related to a decline in orders. In our international business, Net Sales increased 20% to $339 million primarily due to the increases in partner-operated stores and e-commerce sites.
For 2022, our Gross Profit decreased $600 million, or 16%, to $3.255 billion compared to 2021, and our Gross Profit rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased 580 basis points. These decreases were primarily related to a significant decline in our merchandise margin rate driven by continued inflationary cost pressures and increased promotional activity, and the decline in Net Sales.
For 2022, our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses increased $33 million, or 2%, to $1.879 billion compared to 2021, and our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) increased 150 basis points. These increases were primarily due to our strategic investments in technology, in connection with our information technology ("IT") separation, and in customer-facing associate wages.
Taking the above into account, for 2022 our Operating Income decreased $633 million, or 32%, to $1.376 billion compared to 2021, and our Operating Income rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased 730 basis points.
For additional information related to our 2022 financial performance, see “Results of Operations – 2022 Compared to 2021.”
Fiscal 2023 Outlook
We expect ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty and customer price sensitivity in 2023. We expect fourth quarter 2022 sales trends to continue for the first half of 2023 and a moderate improvement in the back half of the year as we lap softening sales trends. We also expect inflationary cost pressures will continue in the first quarter and begin to moderate as we move through the year. In response, we will continue to test opportunities to increase our average unit retail prices and expand margin. Buying and Occupancy Expenses are expected to deleverage driven by the expected lower Net Sales and our anticipated investments in fulfillment and logistics capabilities to drive omnichannel growth, partially offset by the expected benefits of our profit optimization work (discussed below). General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses are expected to deleverage primarily driven by our investments in customer-facing associate wages and technology separation, partially offset by the expected benefits of our profit optimization work.
Profit Optimization
We are working to evaluate our cost structure and take action to offset what we see as ongoing cost pressures in both Gross Profit and General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses, as well as to fund strategic investments. Our efforts are broad-based with opportunities in transportation, product margin, store operations, home office expense and indirect spend. We are early in this process, but we are targeting eventual annual cost savings of $200 million. We expect to realize over half of these savings in 2023, primarily in the second half of the year. We expect to realize a substantial portion of the remaining benefits in 2024.
Adjusted Financial Information from Continuing Operations
In addition to our results provided in accordance with GAAP above and throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provided below are non-GAAP measurements which present Operating Income, Net Income from Continuing Operations and Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share in 2022 and 2021 on an adjusted basis, which remove certain special items. We believe that these special items are not indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and nature. We use adjusted financial information as key performance measures of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Instead, we believe that the presentation of adjusted financial information provides additional information to

27

Table of Contents
investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Further, our definitions of adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The table below reconciles the GAAP financial measures to the non-GAAP financial measures:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- - -----
(in millions, except per share amounts) 2022 2021
Reconciliation of Reported Operating Income to Adjusted Operating Income
Reported Operating Income $ 1,376 $ 2,009
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) — 9

Adjusted Operating Income $ 1,376 $ 2,019

Reconciliation of Reported Net Income from Continuing Operations to Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations
Reported Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 794 $ 1,075
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) — 9

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt (b) — 195

Tax Benefit of Special Items in Operating Income and Other Income (Loss) — (49)
Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 794 $ 1,230

Reconciliation of Reported Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share to Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share
Reported Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share $ 3.40 $ 3.94
Write-off of Inventory due to Tornado (a) — 0.03

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt (b) — 0.54

Adjusted Earnings from Continuing Operations Per Diluted Share $ 3.40 $ 4.51
 ________________
(a)In the fourth quarter of 2021, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $9 million ($7 million after tax) related to the write-off of inventory that was destroyed by a tornado at a vendor's facility.
(b)In the third and first quarters of 2021, we recognized pre-tax losses of $89 million and $105 million (after-tax losses of $68 million and $80 million), respectively, due to the early extinguishments of outstanding notes. For additional information, see Note 11, "Long-term Debt and Borrowing Facilities" included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Company-Operated Store Data
The following table compares U.S. Company-operated store data for 2022 and 2021:

------------------------------------------ ----- ----- ---- ----- - ----- -------- - - -- --
 2022 2021 % Change
Sales per Average Selling Square Foot (a) $ 1,120 $ 1,220 (8 %)
Sales per Average Store (in thousands) (a) $ 3,079 $ 3,279 (6 %)
Average Store Size (selling square feet) 2,783 2,716 2 %
Total Selling Square Feet (in thousands) 4,712 4,485 5 %

 ________________
(a)Sales per average selling square foot and sales per average store, which are indicators of store productivity, are calculated based on store sales for the period divided by the average, including the beginning and end of period, of total square footage and store count, respectively.
The following table represents Company-operated store data for 2022:

------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- -----
 Stores Stores
 January 29, 2022 Opened Closed January 28, 2023
United States 1,651 90 (48) 1,693
Canada 104 5 — 109
Total 1,755 95 (48) 1,802

28

Table of Contents

The following table represents Company-operated store data for 2021:

------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- -----
 Stores Stores
 January 30, 2021 Opened Closed January 29, 2022
United States 1,633 53 (35) 1,651
Canada 103 1 — 104
Total 1,736 54 (35) 1,755

Partner-Operated Store Data
The following table represents partner-operated store data for 2022:

----------------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- ---
 Stores Stores
 January 29, 2022 Opened Closed January 28, 2023
International 317 89 (5) 401
International - Travel Retail 21 6 (1) 26
Total International 338 95 (6) 427

The following table represents partner-operated store data for 2021:

----------------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- ---
 Stores Stores
 January 30, 2021 Opened Closed January 29, 2022
International 270 55 (8) 317
International - Travel Retail 18 3 — 21
Total International 288 58 (8) 338

Results of Operations—2022 Compared to 2021
For 2022, Operating Income decreased $633 million to $1.376 billion, and the Operating Income rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased to 18.2% from 25.5% in 2021. The drivers of the Operating Income results are discussed in the following sections.
Net Sales
The following table provides Net Sales for 2022 in comparison to 2021:

------------------------ ------------- ----- ---- ----- -------- ----- ---- -- ---- --
 2022 2021 % Change
 (in millions)
Stores - U.S. and Canada $ 5,476 $ 5,709 (4.1 %)
Direct - U.S. and Canada 1,745 1,890 (7.6 %)
International (a) 339 283 19.6 %
Total Net Sales $ 7,560 $ 7,882 (4.1 %)

________________
(a)Results include royalties associated with franchised store and wholesale sales.
The following table provides a reconciliation of Net Sales for 2021 to 2022:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -----
 (in millions)
2021 Net Sales $ 7,882
Comparable Store Sales (338)
Sales Associated with New, Closed and Non-comparable Remodeled Stores, Net 119
Direct Channel (145)
International Wholesale, Royalty and Other 56
Foreign Currency Translation (14)
2022 Net Sales $ 7,560

29

Table of Contents
For 2022, Net Sales decreased $322 million to $7.560 billion. Net Sales decreased in the stores channel $233 million, or 4%, primarily due to a decrease in average dollar sales, partially offset by the incremental Net Sales originating from new stores. Direct Net Sales decreased $145 million, or 8%, primarily due to a decline in orders. The decline in Direct orders is partially due to last year's strong results as well as our customers continuing to select our buy online-pick up in store option ("BOPIS") (which is recognized as store Net Sales), partially offset by increased Net Sales in the Canada Direct business that launched in the third quarter of 2021. International Net Sales increased by $56 million, or 20%, primarily due to the increases in partner-operated stores and e-commerce sites.
In terms of category performance, home fragrance and sanitizers Net Sales were down compared to 2021 as customer mindset and needs shifted coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic. While total body care Net Sales were also down, we had growth in our Men's collection. These declines were partially offset by improvement in our gifting business.
Gross Profit
For 2022, our Gross Profit decreased $600 million to $3.255 billion, and our Gross Profit rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased to 43.1% from 48.9%. Gross Profit decreased primarily due to a significant decline in the merchandise margin rate driven by increased product cost from continued inflationary cost pressure in raw materials, transportation and labor and incremental promotions to drive sales. We estimate inflationary cost pressures totaled approximately $225 million in 2022. The decline in Net Sales and a $52 million increase in Buying and Occupancy Expenses, primarily driven by higher distribution costs and investments in store real estate, also contributed to the decrease in Gross Profit. The Gross Profit rate decreased due to the significant decline in the merchandise margin rate, the increase in Buying and Occupancy Expenses and deleverage on lower Net Sales.
General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses
The following table provides detail for our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses for 2022 compared to 2021:

---------------------------------- ------------- ----- -------------- --- ------------- - -------------- - ------------- --- -------------- ---- -- - ---- - --- -
 2022 2021 Change
 (in millions) % of Net Sales (in millions) % of Net Sales (in millions) % of Net Sales
Selling Expenses $ 1,205 15.9 % $ 1,215 15.4 % $ (10) 0.5 %
Home Office and Marketing Expenses 674 8.9 % 631 8.0 % 43 0.9 %
Total $ 1,879 24.9 % $ 1,846 23.4 % $ 33 1.5 %

For 2022, our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses increased $33 million to $1.879 billion, and the rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) increased to 24.9% from 23.4%. Our home office expenses increased primarily due to our investments in technology in connection with our IT separation. The increase in technology costs was partially offset by savings from our third quarter of 2022 profit improvement initiatives of approximately $35 million, charitable contributions made in the first quarter of 2021, certain legal fees and other discrete items totaling approximately $20 million that were incurred in the second quarter of 2021 and an approximately $20 million decrease in incentive compensation payouts due to business performance during the 2022 Spring season. Our selling expenses decreased primarily due to the decreases in Net Sales and related store bonus expense, partially offset by increases in customer-facing associate wages. The General, Administrative and Store Operating Expense rate increased primarily due to the increases in technology costs and associate wages, as well as deleverage on lower Net Sales.
Other Income (Loss) and Expenses
Interest Expense
The following table provides the average daily borrowings and average borrowing rates for 2022 and 2021:

-------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2022 2021
Average daily borrowings (in millions) $ 4,915 $ 5,409
Average borrowing rate 7.1 % 7.2 %

For 2022, our Interest Expense decreased $40 million to $348 million due to lower average daily borrowings and a lower average borrowing rate.
Other Income (Loss)
For 2021, our Other Loss was $198 million, consisting primarily of $195 million of pre-tax losses associated with the early extinguishments of outstanding notes.
Provision for Income Taxes
For 2022, our effective tax rate was 24.0% compared to 24.5% in 2021. The 2022 rate was lower than our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits recorded through the Consolidated

30

Table of Contents
Statements of Income on share-based awards that vested. The 2021 rate was in line with our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate.
Results of Operations—Fourth Quarter of 2022 Compared to Fourth Quarter of 2021
For the fourth quarter of 2022, Operating Income decreased $226 million to $653 million, and the Operating Income rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased to 22.6% from 29.0% in 2021. The drivers of the Operating Income results are discussed in the following sections.
Net Sales
The following table provides Net Sales for the fourth quarter of 2022 in comparison to the fourth quarter of 2021:

------------------------ ------------- ----- ---- --- -------- ----- ---- -- ---- --
 2022 2021 % Change
 (in millions)
Stores - U.S. and Canada $ 2,078 $ 2,191 (5.1 %)
Direct - U.S. and Canada 716 764 (6.3 %)
International (a) 95 72 29.9 %
Total Net Sales $ 2,889 $ 3,027 (4.6 %)

________________
(a)Results include royalties associated with franchised store and wholesale sales.
The following table provides a reconciliation of Net Sales for the fourth quarter of 2021 to the fourth quarter of 2022:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -----
 (in millions)
2021 Net Sales $ 3,027
Comparable Store Sales (130)
Sales Associated with New, Closed and Non-comparable Remodeled Stores, Net 25
Direct Channel (48)
International, Wholesale, Royalty and Other 23
Foreign Currency Translation (8)
2022 Net Sales $ 2,889

For the fourth quarter of 2022, Net Sales decreased $138 million to $2.889 billion. Net Sales decreased in the stores channel by $113 million, or 5%, primarily due to a decrease in average dollar sales, partially offset by the incremental Net Sales originating from new stores. Direct Net Sales decreased $48 million, or 6%, due to a decline in orders partially offset by an increase in average order size. The decline in Direct orders is partially due to our customers continuing to select our BOPIS option (which is recognized as store Net Sales). International Net Sales increased by $23 million, or 30%, primarily due to the increase in partner-operated stores as well as timing of wholesale shipments.
In terms of category performance, home fragrance and sanitizers Net Sales were down compared to 2021 as customer mindset and needs shifted coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic. While total body care Net Sales were down slightly, we had growth in our Men's collection. These declines were partially offset by improvement in our gifting business.
Gross Profit
For the fourth quarter of 2022, our Gross Profit decreased $196 million to $1.250 billion, and our Gross Profit rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased to 43.3% from 47.8%. Gross Profit decreased primarily due to a significant decline in the merchandise margin rate driven by increased product cost from continued inflationary cost pressure in raw materials, transportation and labor and incremental promotions to drive sales. We estimate inflationary cost pressures totaled approximately $60 million in the fourth quarter of 2022. The decline in Net Sales and a $12 million increase in Buying and Occupancy Expenses also contributed to the decrease in Gross Profit. The Gross Profit rate decreased primarily due to the significant decline in the merchandise margin rate and Buying and Occupancy deleverage on lower Net Sales.

31

Table of Contents
General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses
The following table provides detail for our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses for the fourth quarter of 2022 compared to the fourth quarter of 2021:

---------------------------------- ------------- --- -------------- --- ------------- - -------------- - ------------- --- -------------- ---- -- - --- - --- -
 2022 2021 Change
 (in millions) % of Net Sales (in millions) % of Net Sales (in millions) % of Net Sales
Selling Expenses $ 391 13.5 % $ 391 12.9 % $ — 0.6 %
Home Office and Marketing Expenses 206 7.1 % 176 5.8 % 30 1.3 %
Total $ 597 20.7 % $ 567 18.7 % $ 30 1.9 %

For the fourth quarter of 2022, our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses increased $30 million to $597 million and the rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) increased to 20.7% from 18.7%. Our home office expenses increased due to our investments in technology in connection with our IT separation. The increase in technology costs was partially offset by savings from our third quarter of 2022 profit improvement initiatives of approximately $20 million. Our selling expenses remained flat due to increases in customer-facing associate wages, offset by decreases due to the decline in Net Sales. The General, Administrative and Store Operating Expense rate increased primarily due to the increase in technology costs, as well as deleverage on lower Net Sales.
Other Income (Loss) and Expenses
Interest Expense
The following table provides the average daily borrowings and average borrowing rates for the fourth quarter of 2022 and 2021:

-------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2022 2021
Average daily borrowings (in millions) $ 4,915 $ 4,915
Average borrowing rate 7.1 % 7.1 %

For the fourth quarter of 2022, our Interest Expense was $87 million and flat to 2021.
Other Income (Loss)
For fourth quarter of 2022, our Other Income (Loss) increased $11 million to income of $10 million, primarily due to an increase in the average interest rate earned on invested cash.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the fourth quarter of 2022, our effective tax rate was 25.7% compared to 25.1% in 2021. The 2022 and 2021 rates are in line with our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate.

FINANCIAL CONDITION
A discussion regarding our Financial Condition for 2021 compared to 2020 can be found under Item 7. of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 29, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 18, 2022.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity, or access to cash, is an important factor in determining our financial stability. We are committed to maintaining adequate liquidity. Cash generated from our operating activities provides the primary resources to support current operations, growth initiatives, seasonal funding requirements and capital expenditures. Our cash provided from operations is impacted by our net income and working capital changes. Our net income is impacted by, among other things, sales volume, seasonal sales patterns, success of new product introductions, profit margins, income taxes and inflationary pressures. Historically, our sales are higher during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. Generally, our need for working capital peaks during the summer and fall months as inventory builds in anticipation of the holiday period. Our cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries were $126 million as of January 28, 2023.
We believe that our current cash position, our cash flow generated from operations and our borrowing capacity under the ABL Facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements, for at least the next twelve months.

32

Table of Contents
Working Capital and Capitalization
The following table provides a summary of our working capital position and capitalization as of January 28, 2023 and January 29, 2022:

-------------------------------------------- --------------- ----- --------------- ------- - -----
 January 28,2023 January 29,2022
 (in millions)
Working Capital $ 887 $ 1,719
Capitalization:
Long-term Debt 4,862 4,854
Shareholders’ Equity (Deficit) (2,206) (1,518)
Total Capitalization $ 2,656 $ 3,336
Amounts Available Under the ABL Facility (a) $ 509 $ 479

 ________________
(a)As of January 28, 2023, our borrowing base was $525 million and we had outstanding letters of credit, which reduce our availability under the ABL Facility, of $16 million. As of January 29, 2022, our borrowing base was $495 million and we had outstanding letters of credit of $16 million.
Debt Leverage Ratio
Our debt leverage ratio is defined as adjusted debt, which includes our long-term debt and total operating lease liabilities, divided by adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent ("EBITDAR"). Adjusted EBITDAR is calculated as adjusted operating income (a non-GAAP measure that is reconciled under the heading "Adjusted Financial Information from Continuing Operations" in this Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), which excludes interest and taxes, before depreciation, amortization and lease costs. Our debt leverage ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure which we believe is useful to analyze our capital structure. Our debt leverage ratio calculation may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. Our debt leverage ratio should be evaluated in addition to, and not considered a substitute for, other GAAP financial measures.
The following table provides our debt leverage ratio as of, and for the years ended, January 28, 2023 and January 29, 2022:

--------------------------------- --------------------- ----- --------------- ----- - -----
 January 28,2023 January 29,2022
 (dollars in millions)
Long-term Debt $ 4,862 $ 4,854
Total Operating Lease Liabilities 1,191 1,159
Adjusted Debt $ 6,053 $ 6,013

Adjusted Operating Income $ 1,376 $ 2,019
Depreciation and Amortization 221 205
Total Lease Costs 382 358
Adjusted EBITDAR $ 1,979 $ 2,582
Debt Leverage Ratio 3.1 2.3

Cash Flows
The cash flows related to discontinued operations have not been segregated. Accordingly, the 2021 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes the results from continuing and discontinued operations. We did not report any cash flows from discontinued operations in 2022.

33

Table of Contents
The following table provides a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 2022 and 2021:

------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ------- - -----
 2022 2021
 (in millions)
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year $ 1,979 $ 3,933
Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities 1,144 1,492
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (328) (259)
Net Cash Flows Used for Financing Activities (1,562) (3,188)
Effects of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (1) 1
Net Decrease in Cash and Cash Equivalents (747) (1,954)
Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year $ 1,232 $ 1,979

Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2022 was $1.144 billion, including net income of $800 million (which included Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax of $6 million). Net income included depreciation of $221 million, share-based compensation expense of $38 million and deferred income tax expense of $17 million. Other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital. The most significant items in working capital were the $44 million increase associated with Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other and the $39 million increase associated with Income Taxes Payable.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2021 was $1.492 billion, including net income of $1.333 billion (which included Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax of $258 million). Net income included depreciation of $363 million (which included $158 million related to the Victoria's Secret business classified as discontinued operations), loss on extinguishment of debt of $195 million, share-based compensation expense of $46 million (which included $15 million related to the Victoria's Secret business classified as discontinued operations), and deferred income tax expense of $45 million. Other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital. The most significant item in working capital was a decrease in operating cash flow of $177 million associated with the increase in Inventories.
Investing Activities
Net cash used for investing activities in 2022 was $328 million related to capital expenditures. The capital expenditures included approximately $164 million related to new, off-mall stores and remodels of existing stores. The remaining capital expenditures were primarily related to our new Company-operated direct channel fulfillment center and various IT projects primarily supporting the separation of our IT systems from Victoria's Secret & Co.'s IT systems.
Net cash used for investing activities in 2021 was $259 million consisting primarily of $270 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from other investing activities of $11 million. Capital expenditures related to our continuing operations were $205 million, approximately 60% of which related to real estate investments with the remaining investment principally in technology and fulfillment center capabilities. Capital expenditures related to discontinued operations were $66 million.
We are planning for approximately $300 million to $350 million of capital expenditures in 2023, approximately half of which we expect will relate to real estate projects to open new off-mall stores and remodel existing stores into the White Barn store design. Additionally, we also plan on investing in our technology, primarily to support the separation of our IT systems from Victoria's Secret & Co.'s IT systems, and distribution and logistics capabilities to support long-term growth.
Financing Activities
Net cash used for financing activities in 2022 was $1.562 billion consisting of $1.312 billion in payments for share repurchases, including the payment of $1 billion related to our accelerated share repurchase program ("ASR"), dividend payments of $0.80 per share, or $186 million, tax payments of $32 million related to share-based awards and net payments of $25 million to Victoria's Secret & Co. related to the Separation.
Net cash used for financing activities in 2021 was $3.188 billion consisting of $1.964 billion in repurchases of our common stock, $1.716 billion in payments for the early extinguishment of outstanding notes, transfers and payments of $376 million to Victoria's Secret & Co. related to the Separation, dividend payments of $0.45 per share, or $120 million, and tax payments of $59 million related to share-based awards. These uses were partially offset by proceeds of $976 million from the Separation and proceeds of $83 million from stock option exercises.

34

Table of Contents
Common Stock Share Repurchases
Our Board will determine share repurchase authorizations, giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity, the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements as well as financial and other conditions existing at the time. We use cash flow generated from operating and financing activities to fund our share repurchase programs. The timing and amount of any repurchases will be made at our discretion, taking into account a number of factors, including market conditions.
2021 Repurchase Programs
In March 2021, the Board authorized a $500 million share repurchase plan (the "March 2021 Program"), which replaced the $79 million remaining under a March 2018 share repurchase program.
In July 2021, the Board authorized a $1.5 billion share repurchase program (the "July 2021 Program"), which replaced the $36 million remaining under the March 2021 Program. Under the authorization of this program, in July 2021 we entered into a stock repurchase agreement with our former Chief Executive Officer and certain of his affiliated entities pursuant to which we repurchased 10 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $730 million.
We repurchased the following shares of our common stock during 2021:

------------------ ---------------- ------ ----------------- ------ ----------------- - ------------------- ----- --- ----- - -----
Repurchase Program AmountAuthorized SharesRepurchased AmountRepurchased Average Stock Price
 (in millions) (in thousands) (in millions)
March 2021 (a) $ 500 6,996 $ 464 $ 66.30
July 2021 (a) 1,500 10,000 730 73.01
July 2021 (b) 11,234 770 68.53
Total 28,230 $ 1,964
 _______________
(a)Reflects repurchases of L Brands, Inc. common stock prior to the August 2, 2021 spin-off of Victoria's Secret & Co.
(b)Reflects repurchases of Bath & Body Works, Inc. common stock subsequent to the August 2, 2021 spin-off of Victoria's Secret & Co.
2022 Repurchase Program
In February 2022, the Board authorized a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program (the "February 2022 Program"). As part of the February 2022 Program, we entered into the ASR under which we repurchased $1 billion of our own outstanding common stock. The delivery of shares under the ASR resulted in an immediate reduction of the shares used to calculate the weighted-average common shares outstanding for net income per basic and diluted share. Pursuant to the Board's authorization, we made other share repurchases in the open market under the February 2022 Program during 2022.
On February 4, 2022, we delivered $1 billion to the ASR bank, and the bank delivered 14 million shares of common stock to us (the "Initial Shares"). Pursuant to the terms of the ASR, the Initial Shares represented 80% of the number of shares determined by dividing the $1 billion Company payment by the closing price of our common stock on February 2, 2022.
In May 2022, we received an additional 7 million shares of our common stock from the ASR bank for the final settlement of the ASR. The final number of shares of common stock delivered under the ASR was based generally upon a discount to the average daily Rule 10b-18 volume-weighted average price at which the shares of common stock traded during the regular trading sessions on the NYSE during the term of the repurchase period.
We repurchased the following shares of our common stock during 2022:

---------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ ----------------- ----------------- - ------------------- ----- --- - -----
Repurchase Program AmountAuthorized SharesRepurchased AmountRepurchased Average Stock Price
 (in millions) (in thousands) (in millions)
February 2022 $ 1,500 6,401 $ 312 $ 48.77
February 2022 - Accelerated Share Repurchase Program 20,295 1,000 49.27
Total 26,696 $ 1,312

The February 2022 Program had $188 million of remaining authority as of January 28, 2023.

35

Table of Contents
Dividend Policy and Procedures
Our Board will determine future dividends after giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity, the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements as well as financial and other conditions existing at the time. We use cash flow generated from operating and financing activities to fund our dividends.
In connection with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, our Board suspended our quarterly cash dividend beginning in the second quarter of 2020. In March 2021, our Board reinstated the annual dividend at $0.60 per share, beginning with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2021. In February 2022, our Board increased the annual dividend to $0.80 per share, beginning with the quarterly dividend paid in March 2022.
We paid the following dividends during 2022 and 2021:

-------------- ------------------ ---- ------------- -- - ---
 Ordinary Dividends Total Paid
 (per share) (in millions)
 2022
First Quarter $ 0.20 $ 48
Second Quarter 0.20 46
Third Quarter 0.20 46
Fourth Quarter 0.20 46
2022 Total $ 0.80 $ 186
 2021
First Quarter $ — $ —
Second Quarter 0.15 42
Third Quarter 0.15 39
Fourth Quarter 0.15 39
2021 Total $ 0.45 $ 120

On March 3, 2023, we paid our first quarter 2023 dividend of $0.20 per share to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 17, 2023.
Long-term Debt and Borrowing Facilities
The following table provides our outstanding Long-term Debt balance, net of unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts, as of January 28, 2023 and January 29, 2022:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------- ----- --------------- --- - -----
 January 28,2023 January 29,2022
 (in millions)
Senior Debt with Subsidiary Guarantee
$320 million, 9.375% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due July 2025 ("2025 Notes") $ 317 $ 316
$297 million, 6.694% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due January 2027 ("2027 Notes") 283 281
$500 million, 5.25% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due February 2028 (“2028 Notes”) 498 497
$500 million, 7.50% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due June 2029 ("2029 Notes") 491 489
$1 billion, 6.625% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due October 2030 ("2030 Notes") 991 990
$1 billion, 6.875% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due November 2035 (“2035 Notes”) 993 992
$700 million, 6.75% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due July 2036 (“2036 Notes”) 694 694
Total Senior Debt with Subsidiary Guarantee $ 4,267 $ 4,259
Senior Debt
$350 million, 6.95% Fixed Interest Rate Debentures due March 2033 (“2033 Notes”) $ 349 $ 349
$247 million, 7.60% Fixed Interest Rate Notes due July 2037 (“2037 Notes”) 246 246
Total Senior Debt $ 595 $ 595
Total Long-term Debt $ 4,862 $ 4,854

36

Table of Contents
Repurchases of Notes
In April 2021, we redeemed the remaining $285 million of our outstanding 5.625% senior notes due February 2022 and $750 million of our outstanding 6.875% senior secured notes due July 2025. We recognized a pre-tax loss related to this extinguishment of debt of $105 million (after-tax loss of $80 million), which included the write-off of unamortized issuance costs. This loss is included in Other Income (Loss) in the 2021 Consolidated Statement of Income.
In September 2021, we completed the tender offers to purchase $270 million of our outstanding 5.625% senior notes due October 2023 (the "2023 Notes") and $180 million of our outstanding 2025 Notes for an aggregate purchase price of $532 million. Additionally, in October 2021, we redeemed the remaining $50 million of our outstanding 2023 Notes for an aggregate purchase price of $54 million. We recognized a pre-tax loss related to this extinguishment of debt of $89 million (after-tax loss of $68 million), which included the write-off of unamortized issuance costs. This loss is included in Other Income (Loss) in the 2021 Consolidated Statement of Income.
Asset-backed Revolving Credit Facility
We and certain of our 100% owned subsidiaries guarantee and pledge collateral to secure our ABL Facility. The ABL Facility, which allows borrowings and letters of credit in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars, has aggregate commitments of $750 million and an expiration date in August 2026.
Availability under the ABL Facility is the lesser of (i) the borrowing base, determined primarily based on our eligible U.S. and Canadian credit card receivables, accounts receivable, inventory and eligible real property, or (ii) the aggregate commitment. If at any time the outstanding amount under the ABL Facility exceeds the lesser of (i) the borrowing base and (ii) the aggregate commitment, we are required to repay the outstanding amounts under the ABL Facility to the extent of such excess. As of January 28, 2023, our borrowing base was $525 million, and we had no borrowings outstanding under the ABL Facility.
The ABL Facility supports our letter of credit program. We had $16 million of outstanding letters of credit as of January 28, 2023 that reduced our availability under the ABL Facility. As of January 28, 2023, our availability under the ABL Facility was $509 million.
As of January 28, 2023, the ABL Facility fees related to committed and unutilized amounts were 0.30% per annum, and the fees related to outstanding letters of credit were 1.25% per annum. In addition, the interest rate on outstanding U.S. dollar borrowings was LIBOR plus 1.25% per annum. The interest rate on outstanding Canadian dollar-denominated borrowings was the Canadian Dollar Offered Rate plus 1.25% per annum.
The ABL Facility requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 during an event of default or any period commencing on any day when specified excess availability is less than the greater of (i) $70 million or (ii) 10% of the maximum borrowing amount. As of January 28, 2023, we were not required to maintain this ratio.
Credit Ratings
The following table provides our credit ratings as of January 28, 2023:

----------------------------------------------- ------- ------
 Moody’s S&P
Corporate Ba2 BB
Senior Unsecured Debt with Subsidiary Guarantee Ba2 BB
Senior Unsecured Debt B1 B+
Outlook Stable Stable

Guarantor Summarized Financial Information
Certain of our subsidiaries, which are listed on Exhibit 22 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, have guaranteed our obligations under the 2025 Notes, 2027 Notes, 2028 Notes, 2029 Notes, 2030 Notes, 2035 Notes and 2036 Notes (collectively, the "Notes").
The Notes have been issued by Bath & Body Works, Inc. (the “Parent Company”). The Notes are its senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future senior unsecured obligations, are senior to any of our future subordinated indebtedness, are effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness that is secured by a lien and are structurally subordinated to all existing and future obligations of each of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes.
The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, including certain subsidiaries that also guarantee our obligations under our ABL Facility (such guarantees, the “Guarantees”; and, such guaranteeing subsidiaries, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”). The Guarantees of the Subsidiary Guarantors are subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain customary conditions. Each Guarantee is limited, by its

37

Table of Contents
terms, to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the applicable Subsidiary Guarantor subject to avoidance under applicable fraudulent conveyance provisions of U.S. and non-U.S. law.
The following tables set forth summarized financial information for the Parent Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the Parent Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and (ii) investments in and equity in the earnings of non-Guarantor subsidiaries.

----------------------------------------- ------------- -----
JANUARY 28, 2023 SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEET (in millions)
ASSETS
Current Assets (a) $ 2,642
Noncurrent Assets (b) 2,561

LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities (c) $ 3,084
Noncurrent Liabilities 6,143

 _______________
(a)Includes amounts due from non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $589 million as of January 28, 2023.
(b)Includes amounts due from non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $40 million as of January 28, 2023.
(c)Includes amounts due to non-Guarantor subsidiaries of $1.987 billion as of January 28, 2023.

----------------------------------- ------------- -----
2022 SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF INCOME (in millions)
Net Sales (a) $ 7,336
Gross Profit 3,012
Operating Income 1,245
Income Before Income Taxes 921
Net Income (b) 726

 _______________
(a)Includes Net Sales of $291 million to non-Guarantor subsidiaries.
(b)Includes Net Loss of $7 million related to transactions with non-Guarantor subsidiaries.
Contingent Liabilities and Contractual Obligations
The following table provides our contractual obligations, aggregated by type, including the maturity profile as of January 28, 2023:

---------------------------- ---------------------- ------ -------------- --- -------- ----- -------- --------------- ----- ----- --- ----- -- - ----- - --
 Payments Due by Period
 Total LessThan 1Year 1-3Years 4-5Years MoreThan 5Years Other
 (in millions)
Long-term Debt (a) $ 8,047 $ 339 $ 983 $ 895 $ 5,830 $ —
Future Lease Obligations (b) 1,562 260 497 386 419 —
Purchase Obligations (c) 682 543 91 38 10 —
Other Liabilities (d) 182 112 30 — — 40
Total $ 10,473 $ 1,254 $ 1,601 $ 1,319 $ 6,259 $ 40

________________
(a)Long-term Debt obligations relate to our principal and interest payments for outstanding notes and debentures. Interest payments have been estimated based on the coupon rate for fixed rate obligations. Interest obligations exclude amounts which have been accrued through January 28, 2023. For additional information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(b)Future lease obligations primarily represent minimum payments due under store lease agreements. For additional information, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

38

Table of Contents
(c)Purchase obligations primarily include purchase orders for merchandise inventory and other agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transactions.
(d)Other liabilities include future estimated payments associated with unrecognized tax benefits. The “Less Than 1 Year” category includes $112 million of these tax items because it is reasonably possible that the amounts could change in the next 12 months due to audit settlements or resolution of uncertainties. The remaining portion totaling $40 million is included in the “Other” category as it is not reasonably possible that the amounts could change in the next 12 months. In addition, we have a remaining liability of $30 million related to the deemed repatriation tax on our undistributed foreign earnings resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The tax liability will be paid over the next three years. For additional information, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Lease Guarantees
In connection with the spin-off of Victoria's Secret & Co. and the disposal of a certain other business, we had remaining contingent obligations of $283 million as of January 28, 2023 related to lease payments under the current terms of noncancelable leases, primarily related to office space, expiring at various dates through 2037. These obligations include minimum rent and additional payments covering taxes, common area costs and certain other expenses and relate to leases that commenced prior to the disposition of these businesses. Our reserves related to these obligations were not significant for any period presented.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
We did not adopt any new accounting standards in 2022 that had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, as of March 17, 2023, there are no new accounting standards that we have not yet adopted that are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to adopt accounting policies related to estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period, as well as the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its accounting policies, estimates and judgments, including those related to inventories, valuation of long-lived store assets, claims and contingencies, income taxes and revenue recognition. Management bases our estimates and judgments on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management has discussed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and believes the following assumptions and estimates are most significant to reporting our results of operations and financial position.
Inventories
Inventories are principally valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, on an average cost basis.
We record valuation adjustments to our inventories if the cost of inventory on hand exceeds the amount we expect to realize from the ultimate sale or disposal of the inventory. These estimates are based on management’s judgment regarding future demand and market conditions and analysis of historical experience. If actual demand or market conditions are different than those projected by management, future period merchandise margin rates may be unfavorably or favorably affected by adjustments to these estimates.
We also record inventory loss adjustments for estimated physical inventory losses that have occurred since the date of the last physical inventory. These estimates are based on management’s analysis of historical results and operating trends.
Management believes that the assumptions used in these estimates are reasonable and appropriate. A 10% increase or decrease in the inventory valuation adjustment would have impacted net income from continuing operations by approximately $2 million for 2022. A 10% increase or decrease in the estimated physical inventory loss adjustment would have impacted net income from continuing operations by approximately $2 million for 2022.
Valuation of Long-lived Store Assets
Long-lived store assets, which include leasehold improvements, store related assets and operating lease assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Store assets are grouped at the lowest level for which they are largely independent of other assets or asset groups. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset group are less than the carrying value, we recognize a loss

39

Table of Contents
equal to the difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair value, determined by the estimated discounted future cash flows of the asset group. For operating lease assets, we determine the fair value of the assets by comparing the contractual rent payments to estimated market rental rates. An individual asset within an asset group is not impaired below its estimated fair value. The fair value of long-lived store assets are determined using Level 3 inputs within the fair value hierarchy.
When a decision has been made to dispose of property and equipment prior to the end of the previously estimated useful life, depreciation estimates are revised to reflect the use of the asset over the shortened estimated useful life.
Claims and Contingencies
We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, taxes, insurance, regulatory and other matters arising out of the normal course of business. Our determination of the treatment of claims and contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements is based on management’s view of the expected outcome of the applicable claim or contingency. We consult with legal counsel on matters related to litigation and seek input from both internal and external experts with respect to matters in the ordinary course of business. We accrue a liability if the likelihood of an adverse outcome is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome is only reasonably possible (as opposed to probable) or if an estimate is not reasonably determinable, disclosure of a material claim or contingency is disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Income Taxes
We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Under this method, taxes currently payable or refundable are accrued, and deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for realizable operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted income tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in income tax rates is recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized.
Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities. In determining our provision for income taxes, we consider permanent differences between book and tax income and statutory income tax rates. Our effective income tax rate is affected by items including changes in tax law, the tax jurisdiction of new stores or business ventures and the level of earnings.
We follow the authoritative guidance included in ASC 740, Income Taxes, which contains a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and for which actual outcomes may differ from forecasted outcomes. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense.
Our income tax returns, like those of most companies, are periodically audited by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by the various tax authorities. A number of years may elapse before a particular matter for which we have established an accrual is audited and fully resolved or clarified. We adjust our tax contingencies accrual and income tax provision in the period in which matters are effectively settled with tax authorities at amounts different from our established accrual, when the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position or when more information becomes available.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue based on the amount we expect to receive when control of the goods or services is transferred to our customer. We recognize sales upon customer receipt of merchandise, which for direct channel revenues reflect an estimate of shipments that have not yet been received by our customer based on shipping terms and historical delivery times. Our shipping and handling revenues are included in Net Sales with the related costs included in Costs of Goods Sold, Buying and Occupancy in our Consolidated Statements of Income. We also provide a reserve for projected merchandise returns based on historical experience. Net Sales exclude sales and other similar taxes collected from customers.
We offer a loyalty program that allows customers to earn points based on purchasing activity. As customers accumulate points and reach point thresholds, points are converted to awards that may be used to purchase merchandise in stores or online. Points expire if a loyalty account is inactive for a certain period of time, while awards expire if unused after approximately three months. We allocate revenue to points earned on qualifying purchases and defer recognition until the awards are redeemed.

40

Table of Contents
The amount of revenue deferred is based on the relative stand-alone selling price method, which includes an estimate for points and awards not expected to be redeemed based on historical experience.
We sell gift cards with no expiration dates to customers. We do not charge administrative fees on unused gift cards. We recognize revenue from gift cards when they are redeemed by the customer. In addition, we recognize revenue on unredeemed gift cards where the likelihood of the gift card being redeemed is remote and there is no legal obligation to remit the unredeemed gift cards to relevant jurisdictions (gift card breakage). Gift card breakage revenue is recognized in proportion, and over the same period, as actual gift card redemptions. We determine the gift card breakage rate based on historical redemption patterns. Gift card breakage is included in Net Sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
We also recognize revenues associated with franchise, license, wholesale and sourcing arrangements. Revenue recognized under franchise and license arrangements generally consists of royalties earned and recognized upon sale of merchandise by franchise and license partners to retail customers. Revenue is generally recognized under wholesale and sourcing arrangements at the time the title passes to the partner.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[see Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[Exhibit 22 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 22]

['s Secret & Co. spin-off.

25

Table of Contents
Common Stock Repurchases
The following table provides our repurchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2022:

------------- --------------------------------- ------------------------------ ----- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ------- - -------
Fiscal Period TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased (a) Average PricePaid perShare (b) Total Numberof SharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnouncedPrograms (c) MaximumDollar Value of Sharesthat MayYet be PurchasedUnder the Programs (c)
 (in thousands) (in thousands)
November 2022 5 $ 33.07 — $ 187,775
December 2022 7 41.27 — 187,775
January 2023 2 43.72 — 187,775
Total 14 —
 ________________
(a)The total number of shares repurchased represent shares in connection with tax payments due upon vesting of associate restricted stock and performance share unit awards and the use of our stock to pay the exercise price on associate stock options.
(b)The average price paid per share includes any broker commissions.
(c)For additional share repurchase program information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

ITEM 6. [Reserved]

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("]:
Note 25 Subsequent Events 188 Statistical Information (Unaudited) 190 Glossary 194 Defined Terms 194 Acronyms 198

["). The following information should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Our operating results are generally impacted by economic changes and, therefore, we monitor the retail environment using, among other things, certain key industry performance indicators including competitor performance and store traffic data. These indicators can provide insight into consumer spending patterns and shopping behavior in the current retail environment and assist us in assessing our performance as well as the potential impact of industry trends on our future operating results. Additionally, we evaluate a number of key performance indicators including comparable sales, gross profit, operating income and other performance metrics such as sales per average selling square foot in assessing our performance.
On August 2, 2021, we completed the tax-free spin-off of our Victoria']:
Note 8. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): --------------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- -------- - ------ December 31, 2022 2021 Land $ 1,874 $ 1,688 Servers and network assets 34,330 25,584 Buildings 27,720 22,531 Leasehold improvements 6,522 5,795 Equipment and other 5,642 4,764 Finance lease right-of-use assets 3,353 2,840 Construction in progress 25,052 14,687 Property and equipment, gross 104,493 77,889 Less: Accumulated depreciation (24,975) (20,080) Property and equipment, net $ 79,518 $ 57,809 105  Construction in progress includes costs mostly related to construction of data centers, network infrastructure, servers, and office facilities. As of December 31, 2022, construction in progress also includes $2.18 billion of servers and network assets components stored by our suppliers until required by our design manufacturers to fulfill certain purchase orders. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $8.50 billion, $7.56 billion, and $6.39 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The majority of the property and equipment depreciation expense was from servers and network assets depreciation of $5.29 billion, $4.94 billion, and $4.38 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding changes in the estimated useful life of our servers and network assets, see Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded $1.34 billion abandonment charge and $508 million impairment loss for data center assets and leasehold improvements assets, respectively, as a result of our restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring.

[" included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Company-Operated Store Data
The following table compares U.S. Company-operated store data for 2022 and 2021:

------------------------------------------ ----- ----- ---- ----- - ----- -------- - - -- --
 2022 2021 % Change
Sales per Average Selling Square Foot (a) $ 1,120 $ 1,220 (8 %)
Sales per Average Store (in thousands) (a) $ 3,079 $ 3,279 (6 %)
Average Store Size (selling square feet) 2,783 2,716 2 %
Total Selling Square Feet (in thousands) 4,712 4,485 5 %

 ________________
(a)Sales per average selling square foot and sales per average store, which are indicators of store productivity, are calculated based on store sales for the period divided by the average, including the beginning and end of period, of total square footage and store count, respectively.
The following table represents Company-operated store data for 2022:

------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- -----
 Stores Stores
 January 29, 2022 Opened Closed January 28, 2023
United States 1,651 90 (48) 1,693
Canada 104 5 — 109
Total 1,755 95 (48) 1,802

28

Table of Contents

The following table represents Company-operated store data for 2021:

------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- -----
 Stores Stores
 January 30, 2021 Opened Closed January 29, 2022
United States 1,633 53 (35) 1,651
Canada 103 1 — 104
Total 1,736 54 (35) 1,755

Partner-Operated Store Data
The following table represents partner-operated store data for 2022:

----------------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- ---
 Stores Stores
 January 29, 2022 Opened Closed January 28, 2023
International 317 89 (5) 401
International - Travel Retail 21 6 (1) 26
Total International 338 95 (6) 427

The following table represents partner-operated store data for 2021:

----------------------------- ---------------- ------ -- ------ ---------------- ---
 Stores Stores
 January 30, 2021 Opened Closed January 29, 2022
International 270 55 (8) 317
International - Travel Retail 18 3 — 21
Total International 288 58 (8) 338

Results of Operations—2022 Compared to 2021
For 2022, Operating Income decreased $633 million to $1.376 billion, and the Operating Income rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased to 18.2% from 25.5% in 2021. The drivers of the Operating Income results are discussed in the following sections.
Net Sales
The following table provides Net Sales for 2022 in comparison to 2021:

------------------------ ------------- ----- ---- ----- -------- ----- ---- -- ---- --
 2022 2021 % Change
 (in millions)
Stores - U.S. and Canada $ 5,476 $ 5,709 (4.1 %)
Direct - U.S. and Canada 1,745 1,890 (7.6 %)
International (a) 339 283 19.6 %
Total Net Sales $ 7,560 $ 7,882 (4.1 %)

________________
(a)Results include royalties associated with franchised store and wholesale sales.
The following table provides a reconciliation of Net Sales for 2021 to 2022:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- -----
 (in millions)
2021 Net Sales $ 7,882
Comparable Store Sales (338)
Sales Associated with New, Closed and Non-comparable Remodeled Stores, Net 119
Direct Channel (145)
International Wholesale, Royalty and Other 56
Foreign Currency Translation (14)
2022 Net Sales $ 7,560

29

Table of Contents
For 2022, Net Sales decreased $322 million to $7.560 billion. Net Sales decreased in the stores channel $233 million, or 4%, primarily due to a decrease in average dollar sales, partially offset by the incremental Net Sales originating from new stores. Direct Net Sales decreased $145 million, or 8%, primarily due to a decline in orders. The decline in Direct orders is partially due to last year']:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

['s Data Protection Act of 2018, which became law after the U.K. left the EU. Under the GDPR, EU member states have enacted certain implementing legislation that adds to and/or further interprets the GDPR requirements and, depending on the extent and degree to which we conduct business in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and U.K., potentially extends our obligations and potential liability for failing to meet such obligations. The GDPR, together with national legislation, regulations and guidelines of the EEA states and the U.K. governing the processing of personal data, impose strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, use, retain, protect, disclose, transfer and otherwise process personal data, and other international jurisdictions are expected to pass similar laws that may include even more stringent requirements. Changes in such international laws or changes in our business strategy such as direct expansions into additional jurisdictions may cause us to incur additional compliance costs, increase our risks of being subject to lawsuits, complaints and/or regulatory investigations or fines, or restrict our ability to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate or may in the future operate. Such international laws, and our compliance with such laws, could impact the manner in which we do business and the geographical location or segregation of our relevant operations and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs, such as costs related to organizational changes, investing in and implementing additional data protection technologies and other safeguards and training associates and engaging consultants, which are likely to increase over time. In addition, such requirements may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and distract management or divert resources from other initiatives and projects, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Any failure or perceived failure by us or our partners to comply with any applicable federal, state or similar foreign laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security could result in damage to our reputation and our relationship with our customers, as well as proceedings or litigation by governmental agencies or customers, including class action privacy and data-protection litigation in certain jurisdictions, which could subject us to significant fines, sanctions, awards, penalties or judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by our ability to comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable foreign and domestic laws and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the SEC and the NYSE, among others. Although we have put in place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our associates, subcontractors, vendors, licensees, franchisees and other third parties could take actions that violate these laws and regulations. Any violations of such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common stock and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
It can be difficult to comply with sometimes conflicting statutes or regulations in local, national or foreign jurisdictions as well as new or changing laws and regulations. Also, changes in such laws and regulations could make operating our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs for certain merchandise or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for

22

Table of Contents
sale. We operate stores in all 50 states, Canada and Puerto Rico, which requires us to comply with a myriad of provincial, state and local laws pertaining to all aspects of our business, including our associates and consumers. The trend for states and localities in the United States to legislate in the absence of national laws passed by the U.S. Congress has greatly increased the complexity of legal compliance for us. It may be difficult for us to comply with these laws, compliance may be costly and compliance and associated costs may negatively impact our operations.
We may be adversely impacted by certain compliance or legal matters.
We, along with third parties we do business with, are subject to complex compliance and litigation risks. Actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, tax, customer, employment, wage and hour, privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. The cost of defending against these types of claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims, whether by settlement or adverse court decision, may harm our business. Further, potential claimants may be encouraged to bring suits based on a settlement from us or adverse court decisions against us. We cannot currently assess the likely outcome of such suits, but if the outcome were negative, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In addition, we may be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and stockholders, that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common stock and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
We may be impacted by changes in taxation, trade and other regulatory requirements.
We are subject to income tax in local, national and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
There is increased uncertainty with respect to tax policy and trade relations between the U.S. and other countries, including as a result of any executive action taken or legislative priorities set by the current U.S. presidential administration. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.
None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Company-operated
The following table provides the location, use and size of our Company-operated distribution, fulfillment, office and product development facilities as of January 28, 2023:

------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------
Location Use ApproximateSquareFootage
Columbus, Ohio area Office, distribution and fulfillment centers and shipping facilities 4,951,000
Other North America Office and product development/design 69,000

We own five office, distribution center and shipping facilities located in the Columbus, Ohio area comprising approximately 3.9 million square feet. In addition, during Fall of 2022, we completed construction of a new 1.1 million square foot leased direct channel fulfillment center located near Columbus, Ohio.
We also lease various other office and product development/design locations in North America, primarily in New York.
As of January 28, 2023, we operated 1,693 and 109 retail stores located in leased facilities throughout the U.S. and Canada, respectively. A substantial portion of our U.S. store leases generally have an initial term of 10 years, while our Canadian store leases generally have initial terms of 5 to 10 years. Our store leases expire at various dates between 2023 and 2034.

23

Table of Contents
Third-party Operated Fulfillment and Distribution Centers
We utilize six permanent third-party operated direct channel fulfillment centers in North America, comprising approximately 3.2 million square feet. We also utilize six third-party operated regional distribution centers in North America, comprising approximately 1.1 million square feet, that enable us to position inventory geographically closer to our customers.
International Partner-operated Stores
As of January 28, 2023, our partners operated 427 retail stores in more than 45 international countries.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
We are a defendant in a variety of lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. Actions filed against our Company from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, tax, customer, employment, wage and hour, data privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any litigation, in the opinion of management, our current legal proceedings are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act Cases
We were named as a defendant in three putative class actions: Smidga, et al. v. Bath & Body Works, LLC in the Allegheny County, Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas; Dahlin v. Bath & Body Works, LLC in the Santa Barbara County, California Superior Court; and Blanco v. Bath & Body Works, LLC in the Cook County, Illinois Circuit Court. The complaints each allege that we violated the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act by printing more than the last five digits of credit or debit card numbers on customers’ receipts and, among other things, seek statutory damages, attorneys’ fees and costs. Each of these cases are in the preliminary stages of litigation. We believe that we have strong defenses to the claims and intend to continue to vigorously defend ourself against the allegations and do not believe that the resolution of the cases, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not applicable.

24

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.
Market Information
Our common stock is traded on the NYSE. As of January 28, 2023, the Company had approximately 30,000 stockholders of record. However, including active associates who participate in our associate stock purchase plan, associates who own shares through our sponsored retirement plan and others holding shares in broker accounts under street names, we estimate the shareholder base as of January 28, 2023 to be approximately 222,000.
Dividend Policy
We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share during each quarter of 2022. Our Board will determine future dividends after giving consideration to our levels of profit and cash flow, capital requirements, current and forecasted liquidity, the restrictions placed upon us by our borrowing arrangements, the macroeconomic environment as well as financial and other conditions existing at the time. We use cash flow generated from operating and financing activities to fund our dividends. For additional discussion regarding our dividends, see "]:
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39

['s collection. These declines were partially offset by improvement in our gifting business.
Gross Profit
For the fourth quarter of 2022, our Gross Profit decreased $196 million to $1.250 billion, and our Gross Profit rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) decreased to 43.3% from 47.8%. Gross Profit decreased primarily due to a significant decline in the merchandise margin rate driven by increased product cost from continued inflationary cost pressure in raw materials, transportation and labor and incremental promotions to drive sales. We estimate inflationary cost pressures totaled approximately $60 million in the fourth quarter of 2022. The decline in Net Sales and a $12 million increase in Buying and Occupancy Expenses also contributed to the decrease in Gross Profit. The Gross Profit rate decreased primarily due to the significant decline in the merchandise margin rate and Buying and Occupancy deleverage on lower Net Sales.

31

Table of Contents
General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses
The following table provides detail for our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses for the fourth quarter of 2022 compared to the fourth quarter of 2021:

---------------------------------- ------------- --- -------------- --- ------------- - -------------- - ------------- --- -------------- ---- -- - --- - --- -
 2022 2021 Change
 (in millions) % of Net Sales (in millions) % of Net Sales (in millions) % of Net Sales
Selling Expenses $ 391 13.5 % $ 391 12.9 % $ — 0.6 %
Home Office and Marketing Expenses 206 7.1 % 176 5.8 % 30 1.3 %
Total $ 597 20.7 % $ 567 18.7 % $ 30 1.9 %

For the fourth quarter of 2022, our General, Administrative and Store Operating Expenses increased $30 million to $597 million and the rate (expressed as a percentage of Net Sales) increased to 20.7% from 18.7%. Our home office expenses increased due to our investments in technology in connection with our IT separation. The increase in technology costs was partially offset by savings from our third quarter of 2022 profit improvement initiatives of approximately $20 million. Our selling expenses remained flat due to increases in customer-facing associate wages, offset by decreases due to the decline in Net Sales. The General, Administrative and Store Operating Expense rate increased primarily due to the increase in technology costs, as well as deleverage on lower Net Sales.
Other Income (Loss) and Expenses
Interest Expense
The following table provides the average daily borrowings and average borrowing rates for the fourth quarter of 2022 and 2021:

-------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- - -----
 2022 2021
Average daily borrowings (in millions) $ 4,915 $ 4,915
Average borrowing rate 7.1 % 7.1 %

For the fourth quarter of 2022, our Interest Expense was $87 million and flat to 2021.
Other Income (Loss)
For fourth quarter of 2022, our Other Income (Loss) increased $11 million to income of $10 million, primarily due to an increase in the average interest rate earned on invested cash.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the fourth quarter of 2022, our effective tax rate was 25.7% compared to 25.1% in 2021. The 2022 and 2021 rates are in line with our combined estimated federal and state statutory rate.

FINANCIAL CONDITION
A discussion regarding our Financial Condition for 2021 compared to 2020 can be found under Item 7. of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 29, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 18, 2022.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity, or access to cash, is an important factor in determining our financial stability. We are committed to maintaining adequate liquidity. Cash generated from our operating activities provides the primary resources to support current operations, growth initiatives, seasonal funding requirements and capital expenditures. Our cash provided from operations is impacted by our net income and working capital changes. Our net income is impacted by, among other things, sales volume, seasonal sales patterns, success of new product introductions, profit margins, income taxes and inflationary pressures. Historically, our sales are higher during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. Generally, our need for working capital peaks during the summer and fall months as inventory builds in anticipation of the holiday period. Our cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries were $126 million as of January 28, 2023.
We believe that our current cash position, our cash flow generated from operations and our borrowing capacity under the ABL Facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements, for at least the next twelve months.

32

Table of Contents
Working Capital and Capitalization
The following table provides a summary of our working capital position and capitalization as of January 28, 2023 and January 29, 2022:

-------------------------------------------- --------------- ----- --------------- ------- - -----
 January 28,2023 January 29,2022
 (in millions)
Working Capital $ 887 $ 1,719
Capitalization:
Long-term Debt 4,862 4,854
Shareholders’ Equity (Deficit) (2,206) (1,518)
Total Capitalization $ 2,656 $ 3,336
Amounts Available Under the ABL Facility (a) $ 509 $ 479

 ________________
(a)As of January 28, 2023, our borrowing base was $525 million and we had outstanding letters of credit, which reduce our availability under the ABL Facility, of $16 million. As of January 29, 2022, our borrowing base was $495 million and we had outstanding letters of credit of $16 million.
Debt Leverage Ratio
Our debt leverage ratio is defined as adjusted debt, which includes our long-term debt and total operating lease liabilities, divided by adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent ("]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[" in this Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), which excludes interest and taxes, before depreciation, amortization and lease costs. Our debt leverage ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure which we believe is useful to analyze our capital structure. Our debt leverage ratio calculation may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. Our debt leverage ratio should be evaluated in addition to, and not considered a substitute for, other GAAP financial measures.
The following table provides our debt leverage ratio as of, and for the years ended, January 28, 2023 and January 29, 2022:

--------------------------------- --------------------- ----- --------------- ----- - -----
 January 28,2023 January 29,2022
 (dollars in millions)
Long-term Debt $ 4,862 $ 4,854
Total Operating Lease Liabilities 1,191 1,159
Adjusted Debt $ 6,053 $ 6,013

Adjusted Operating Income $ 1,376 $ 2,019
Depreciation and Amortization 221 205
Total Lease Costs 382 358
Adjusted EBITDAR $ 1,979 $ 2,582
Debt Leverage Ratio 3.1 2.3

Cash Flows
The cash flows related to discontinued operations have not been segregated. Accordingly, the 2021 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes the results from continuing and discontinued operations. We did not report any cash flows from discontinued operations in 2022.

33

Table of Contents
The following table provides a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 2022 and 2021:

------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ------- - -----
 2022 2021
 (in millions)
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year $ 1,979 $ 3,933
Net Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities 1,144 1,492
Net Cash Flows Used for Investing Activities (328) (259)
Net Cash Flows Used for Financing Activities (1,562) (3,188)
Effects of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (1) 1
Net Decrease in Cash and Cash Equivalents (747) (1,954)
Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year $ 1,232 $ 1,979

Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2022 was $1.144 billion, including net income of $800 million (which included Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax of $6 million). Net income included depreciation of $221 million, share-based compensation expense of $38 million and deferred income tax expense of $17 million. Other changes in assets and liabilities represent items that had a current period cash flow impact, such as changes in working capital. The most significant items in working capital were the $44 million increase associated with Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other and the $39 million increase associated with Income Taxes Payable.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2021 was $1.492 billion, including net income of $1.333 billion (which included Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax of $258 million). Net income included depreciation of $363 million (which included $158 million related to the Victoria']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17
