================================================================================
CIK: 0001090872
Company Name: AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC
Filing Date: 2023-12-20
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 15:39:39
================================================================================

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding growth opportunities, including for revenue and our end markets, strength and drivers of the markets into which we sell, sales funnels, our strategic direction, new product and service introductions and the position of our current products and services, market demand for and adoption of our products, the ability of our products and solutions to address customer needs and meet industry requirements, our focus on differentiating our product solutions, improving our customers’ experience and growing our earnings, future financial results, our operating margin, mix, our investments, including in manufacturing infrastructure, research and development and expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolios, expanding our position in developing countries and emerging markets, our focus on balanced capital allocation, our contributions to our pension and other defined benefit plans, impairment and adjustments of goodwill and other intangible assets, the impact of foreign currency movements, our hedging programs and other actions to offset the effects of tariffs and foreign currency movements, our future effective tax rate, tax valuation allowance and unrecognized tax benefits, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements, including through cash generated from operations, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, indemnification, source and supply of materials used in our products, our sales, our purchase commitments, our capital expenditures, the integration and effects of our acquisitions and other transactions, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, our stock repurchase program and dividends, macroeconomic environment and geopolitical uncertainties, interest rate and inflationary pressures, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Part I Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

30

Table of Contents

Overview and Executive Summary

Agilent Technologies Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global leader in life sciences, diagnostics and applied chemical markets, providing application focused solutions that include instruments, software, services and consumables for the entire laboratory workflow.

Announced Exit and Subsequent Divestiture of Resolution Bioscience Business

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2023, we made the decision to exit the Resolution Bioscience business within our diagnostics and genomics segment and recorded a long-lived asset impairment charge of $270 million. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, we received an unsolicited offer and entered into an agreement to divest the Resolution Bioscience business for $50 million. As a result, we recorded a gain on the divestiture of $43 million in other income and expense, net in the statement of operations, which included an adjustment to goodwill of $13 million.

Actual Results

Agilent's net revenue of $6,833 million in 2023 was slightly down when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements for 2023 had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points when compared to 2022. Net revenue declined in our life sciences and applied markets segment, in the pharmaceutical market and in the Asia Pacific region primarily related to weaker demand in China and an overall pressure on our customers' capital expenditures compared to the same period last year. The net revenue decline was partially offset by revenue growth from our other segments primarily in Agilent CrossLab. Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business decreased 4 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business increased 1 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Revenue in the Agilent CrossLab business increased 8 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022.

Agilent's net revenue of $6,848 million increased 8 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements for 2022 had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points when compared to 2021. Net revenue increased in all business segments, geographic regions and most key end markets compared to 2021. Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business increased 9 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. Revenue in the Agilent CrossLab business increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021.

Net income was $1,240 million in 2023 compared to net income of $1,254 million and $1,210 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net income in 2023 was impacted by the asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business and lower tax expense. Net income in 2022 was impacted by higher sales volume partially offset by supply chain, logistics and inflationary pressures increasing our costs. Net income in 2021 was impacted by higher sales volume and net gains on fair value of equity securities partially offset by significant expense increases from our variable pay, share-based compensation expense and sales commissions. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents balances of $1,590 million and $1,053 million, respectively.

2019 Repurchase Program. During the year ended October 31, 2021, we repurchased and retired 3.1 million shares for $365 million under this authorization. Effective February 18, 2021, the 2019 repurchase program was terminated and replaced by the 2021 repurchase program. The remaining authorization under the 2019 repurchase plan of $193 million expired on February 18, 2021.

2021 Repurchase Program. During the year ended October 31, 2021, we repurchased and retired 3.0 million shares for $423 million under this authorization. During the year ended October 31, 2022, we repurchased and retired 8.4 million shares for $1,139 million under this authorization. During the year ended October 31, 2023 we repurchased and retired 661,739 shares for $99 million, excluding excise taxes, under this authorization. On March 1, 2023, the 2021 repurchase program was terminated and the remaining authorization of $339 million expired.

31

Table of Contents
2023 Repurchase Program. On January 9, 2023, we announced that our board of directors had approved a share repurchase program (the "2023 repurchase program") designed, among other things, to reduce or eliminate dilution resulting from issuance of stock under the company's employee equity incentive programs. The 2023 repurchase program authorizes the purchase of up to $2.0 billion, excluding excise taxes, of our common stock at the company's discretion and has no fixed termination date. The 2023 repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended, amended or discontinued at any time. The 2023 repurchase program commenced on March 1, 2023, and also terminated and replaced the 2021 repurchase program. During the year ended October 31, 2023 we repurchased and retired 3.9 million shares for $476 million, excluding excise taxes, under this authorization. As of October 31, 2023, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to approximately $1,524 million of our common stock under the 2023 repurchase program.

The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which was enacted into law on August 16, 2022, imposed a nondeductible 1% excise tax on the net value of certain stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. As a result, we recorded the applicable excise tax of $3.2 million during the year ended October 31, 2023, as an incremental cost of the shares repurchased and a corresponding liability for the excise tax payable in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.

 Dividends. During the year ended October 31, 2023, cash dividends of $0.900 per share, or $265 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. During the year ended October 31, 2022, cash dividends of $0.840 per share, or $250 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. During the year ended October 31, 2021, cash dividends of $0.776 per share, or $236 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock.

On November 15, 2023, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.236 per share of common stock, or approximately $69 million which will be paid on January 24, 2024, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 2, 2024. The timing and amounts of any future dividends are subject to determination and approval by our board of directors.

 Looking forward, we continue to be focused on improving our customers’ experience, differentiating product solutions and productivity. While we anticipate a challenging macroeconomic environment, particularly in China, and an overall pressure on our customers' capital expenditures in the near-term, we remain optimistic about our long-term growth opportunities in all of our key end markets. We expect to continue to face inflationary pressures which we will continue to mitigate through targeted pricing and various other cost savings strategies.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially change the financial statements. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, restructuring and accounting for income taxes.

Revenue Recognition. We enter into contracts to sell products, services or combinations of products and services. Products may include hardware or software and services may include one-time service events or services performed over time.

We derive revenue primarily from the sale of analytical and diagnostics products and services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct product or service to a customer and is the unit of account under Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, (“ASC 606’’). Revenue is recognized when control of the promised products or services is transferred to our customers and the performance obligation is fulfilled in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled in exchange for those products or services, the transaction price. For equipment, consumables, and most software licenses, control transfers to the customer at a point in time. We use present right to payment, legal title, physical possession of the asset, and risks and rewards of ownership as indicators to determine the transfer of control to the customer. For products that transfer control over time, revenue is recognized as the performance obligation is satisfied. Product over time revenue is assessed against the following criteria: the performance creates an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created; the asset has no alternative use; and we have an enforceable right to payment. Where acceptance is not a formality, the customer must have documented their acceptance of the product or service. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate performance obligation,

32

Table of Contents
product revenue is recognized when control has passed to the customer, and recognition of installation revenue occurs once completed. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors is reduced for provisions for warranties, returns, and other adjustments in the period the related sales are recorded.

Service revenue includes extended warranty, customer and software support including: Software as a Service, post contract support, consulting including companion diagnostics, and training and education. Instrument service contracts and software maintenance contracts are typically annual contracts, which are billed at the beginning of the contract or maintenance period. Revenue for these contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis to revenue over the service period, as a time-based measure of progress best reflects our performance in satisfying this obligation. There are no deferred costs associated with the service contract, as the cost of the service is recorded when the service is performed. Service calls not included in a support contract are recognized to revenue at the time a service is performed.

We have sales from standalone software. These arrangements typically include software licenses and maintenance contracts, both of which we have determined are distinct performance obligations. We determine the amount of the transaction price to allocate to the license and maintenance contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation. Software license revenue is recognized at the point in time when control has been transferred to the customer. The revenue allocated to the software maintenance contract is recognized on a straight-line basis over the maintenance period, which is the contractual term of the contract, as a time-based measure of progress best reflects our performance in satisfying this obligation. Unspecified rights to software upgrades are typically sold as part of the maintenance contract on a when-and-if-available basis.

 Our multiple-element arrangements are generally comprised of a combination of instruments, installation or other start-up services, and/or software, and/or support or services. Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and revenue is recognized when control passes to the customer. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. Our arrangements generally do not include any provisions for cancellation, termination, or refunds that would significantly impact recognized revenue.

For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices and recognize the related revenue when or as control of each individual performance obligation is transferred to customers. We estimate the standalone selling price by calculating the average historical selling price of our products and services per geographic region for each performance obligation. Stand-alone selling prices are determined for each distinct good or service in the contract, and then we allocate the transaction price in proportion to those standalone selling prices by performance obligations.

A portion of our revenue relates to lease arrangements. Standalone lease arrangements are outside the scope of ASC 606 and are therefore accounted for in accordance with ASC 842, Leases ("ASC 842"). Each of these contracts is evaluated as a lease arrangement, either as an operating lease or a sales-type finance lease using the current lease classification guidance. In a lease arrangement that is a multiple-element arrangement that contains equipment leases and the supply of consumables, the revenue associated with the instrument rental is treated under the lease accounting standard ASC 842, whereas the revenue associated with the consumables, the non-lease component, is recognized in accordance with the ASC 606 revenue standard.

Inventory Valuation.  Inventory is valued at standard cost, which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a periodic basis and make adjustments to the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon estimates and assumptions about future demand, economic conditions and actual usage, which require management judgment. Such estimates are difficult to make under most economic conditions. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of inventory levels, sales trends and forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory and to estimate and record reserves for excess, slow-moving and obsolete inventory. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write-downs may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold to customers, resulting in lower cost of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period.

Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan Assumptions. Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employees' average expected future service to Agilent based on the terms of the plans and investment and funding decisions. To estimate the impact of these future payments and our decisions concerning funding of these obligations, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Two critical assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long-term return on plan assets. Other important assumptions include

33

Table of Contents
expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates, and portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually.

The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date - October 31 for both U.S. and non-U.S. plans. For 2023 and 2022, the U.S. discount rates were based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio. In 2023, discount rates for the U.S. pension and retiree medical plans increased compared to the previous year due to the increase in the corporate bond rates. For 2023 and 2022, the discount rates for non-U.S. plans were generally based on published rates for high quality corporate bonds and in 2023, mostly increased compared to the previous year. If we had changed our discount rate by 1 percent, the impact would have been approximately $1 million on U.S. pension expense and $11 million on non-U.S. pension expense for the year ended October 31, 2023. Lower discount rates usually increase present values of the pension benefit obligation and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates usually decrease present values of the pension benefit obligation and subsequent year pension expense.

The company uses alternate methods of amortization as allowed by the authoritative guidance which amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. Plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future lifetime of participants using the corridor method. For most Non-U.S. Plans and U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average remaining future service period or remaining lifetime of participants depending upon the plan, using a separate layer for each year's gains and losses.

In the U.S., target asset allocations for our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans were approximately 50 percent to equities and approximately 50 percent to fixed income investments as of October 31, 2023. Our Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan target asset allocation is approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Approximately 1 percent of the retirement and post-retirement plans consists of limited partnerships. Outside the U.S., our target asset allocation (excluding annuity contracts in the U.K.) ranges from zero percent to 60 percent to equities, from 38 percent to 100 percent to fixed income investments, and from zero to 25 percent to real estate, depending on the plan. All plans' assets are broadly diversified. Due to fluctuations in equity and bond markets, our actual allocations of plan assets at October 31, 2023, may differ from the target allocation. Our policy is to bring the actual allocation in line with the target allocation.

Equity securities include exchange-traded common stock and preferred stock of companies from broadly diversified industries. Fixed income securities include a global portfolio of corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries, government securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, derivative instruments and other. The annuity contract is an insurance buy-in contract issued by a third-party insurance company for a portion of benefit obligations of listed pensioners under the U.K. defined benefit plan, and is funded with existing pension plan assets with no adjustment made to the benefit obligations. Real estate securities include holdings of managed investment funds which invest primarily in the equity instruments of real estate investment trusts and other similar real estate investments. Other investments include a group trust consisting primarily of private equity partnerships.

The expected long-term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations as well as historical and expected returns. Plan assets are valued at fair value. If we had changed our estimated return on assets by 1 percent, the impact would have been $5 million on U.S. pension and post-retirement benefit plan expense and $8 million on non-U.S. pension expense for the year ended October 31, 2023. The total periodic pension and post-retirement benefit costs recorded were a $6 million expense in 2023, $2 million benefit in 2022 and $24 million expense in 2021. These costs included a loss on settlement of $4 million, $4 million and $1 million, for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. We assess our goodwill and purchased intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Under the authoritative guidance, we have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. The accounting standard gives an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether performing the quantitative test is necessary. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not (i.e., greater than 50% chance) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required.

The guidance includes examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount. These include macro-economic conditions such as deterioration in the entity's operating environment or industry or market considerations; entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or a sustained decrease in the stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers.

34

Table of Contents

If it is determined, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we are required to perform a quantitative impairment test on goodwill to identify and measure the amount of a goodwill impairment loss to be recognized. A goodwill impairment loss, if any, is measured as the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. As defined in the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment. We aggregate components of an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics into our reporting units.

In fiscal year 2023, we assessed goodwill impairment for our three reporting units which consisted of our three segments: life sciences and applied markets, diagnostics and genomics and Agilent CrossLab. We performed a quantitative test for goodwill impairment of the three reporting units, as of September 30, 2023, our annual impairment test date. Based on the results of our quantitative testing, there was no impairment of goodwill as of September 30, 2023. Each quarter we review the events and circumstances to determine if goodwill impairment is indicated. There was no impairment of goodwill during the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021.

 Purchased intangible assets consist primarily of acquired developed technologies, proprietary know-how, trademarks, and customer relationships and are amortized using the best estimate of the asset's useful life that reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits are consumed or used up or a straight-line method ranging from 6 months to 15 years. Our determination of the fair value of the intangible assets acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Specifically, our determination of the fair value of the developed product technology and in-process research and development ("IPR&D") acquired involves significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue growth rates and discount rates. Our determination of the fair value of customer relationships acquired involves significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue growth rates, discount rates, and customer attrition rates. Our determination of the fair value of the tradename acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates. The company believes that the fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on reasonable assumptions and estimates that marketplace participants would use. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When the IPR&D project is complete, it is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and is amortized over its estimated useful life. If an IPR&D project is abandoned, we will record a charge for the value of the related intangible asset to our consolidated statement of operations in the period it is abandoned.

We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of finite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets.

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are IPR&D intangible assets. The accounting guidance allows a qualitative approach for testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, similar to the issued impairment testing guidance for goodwill and allows the option to first assess qualitative factors (events and circumstances) that could have affected the significant inputs used in determining the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not (i.e., greater than 50% chance) that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An organization may choose to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to calculating its fair value. We performed a qualitative test for impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of September 30, 2023. Based on the results of our qualitative testing, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair values of these indefinite-lived intangible assets are greater than their respective carrying values. Each quarter we review the events and circumstances to determine if impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets is indicated. During the year ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, there were no impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets.

Restructuring. The main components of our restructuring plan are related to workforce reductions, consolidation of excess leased facilities and site closures. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when payment of benefits becomes probable that the employees are entitled to the severance and the amounts can be estimated. Consolidation of facilities costs primarily consists of accelerated depreciation of right-of-use assets classified as held and used. In accordance with the accounting guidance, it was determined that certain assets had been abandoned, and an assessment was made of the remaining useful lives and potential alternative uses. If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amounts of restructuring and other related charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded. See Note 15. "Restructuring and Other Related Costs" for additional information.

35

Table of Contents
Accounting for Income Taxes. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Significant management judgment is also required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more-likely-than-not that all or some portion of deferred tax assets may not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established against such deferred tax assets. We consider all available positive and negative evidence on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis when assessing whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. We consider evidence such as our past operating results, the existence of losses in recent years and our forecast of future taxable income.

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations.

Adoption of New Pronouncements

See Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements," to the consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements.

Restructuring and Other Related Costs

In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, we initiated a new restructuring plan ("FY23 Plan") designed to reduce costs and expenses in response to the current macroeconomic conditions. The plan includes a reduction of our total headcount by approximately 400 regular employees, representing approximately 2 percent of our global workforce, and the consolidation of our excess facilities, including some site closures.

In connection with this plan, we have recorded approximately $46 million in restructuring and other related costs in fiscal year 2023. These costs include severance and other personnel costs associated with the workforce reduction. The consolidation of excess facilities includes accelerated depreciation expenses of right-of-use ("ROU") and machinery and equipment assets and other facilities-related costs. The timing and scope of the workforce reductions will vary based on local legal requirements. These actions impact all three of our business segments. The costs associated with this restructuring plan have not been allocated to our business segments' results; however, each business segment will benefit from the future costs savings from these actions. When completed, the restructuring program is expected to result in a reduction of $80 million in annual cost of sales and operating expenses over the three business segments. While the majority of the workforce reduction will be completed in the first quarter of 2024, we expect to substantially complete the remaining restructuring activities by the end of fiscal year 2024.

36

Table of Contents
A summary of total restructuring activity is shown in the table below:

-------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- -- ---------------------------------- --- - - ----- --- - --
 Workforce Reduction Consolidation of Excess Facilities Total
 (in millions)
Balance at October 31, 2022 $ — $ — $ —
Income statement expense 33 13 46
Accelerated share-based compensation expense (1) — (1)
Accelerated depreciation expenses of ROU and machinery and equipment — (8) (8)
Cash payments (1) — (1)
Balance at October 31, 2023 $ 31 $ 5 $ 36

The restructuring and other related costs, which totaled $36 million at October 31, 2023, are recorded in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and reflect estimated future cash outlays.

A summary of the charges in the consolidated statement of operations resulting from the restructuring plan is shown below:

----------------------------------- ------------- --
 Year Ended
 October 31,
 2023
 (in millions)
Cost of products and services $ 11
Research and Development 6
Selling, general and administrative 29
Total restructuring costs $ 46

Foreign Currency

Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities and equity are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. Foreign currency movements for the year ended October 31, 2023, had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue of 2 percentage points when compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements for the year ended October 31, 2022, had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue of 4 percentage points when compared to 2021. When movements in foreign currency exchange rates have a negative impact on revenue, they will also have a positive impact by reducing our costs and expenses. We calculate the impact of movements in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the actual foreign currency exchange rates in effect during the last month of each quarter of the current year to both the applicable current and prior year periods. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (up to a rolling thirteen-month period). We may also hedge equity balances denominated in foreign currency on a long-term basis. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction.

37

Table of Contents
Results from Operations

Net Revenue

------------------ ----------------------- ----- --------------------- --------------------- ----- - ----- ---- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
 (in millions)

Net revenue:
Products $ 5,051 $ 5,187 $ 4,756 (3)% 9%
Services and other $ 1,782 $ 1,661 $ 1,563 7% 6%
Total net revenue $ 6,833 $ 6,848 $ 6,319 — 8%

----------------------- ----------------------- - --------------------- --- --------------------- --- - --------- --------
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
% of total net revenue:
Products 74 % 76 % 75 % (2) ppts. 1 ppt.
Services and other 26 % 24 % 25 % 2 ppts. (1) ppt.
Total 100 % 100 % 100 %

Agilent's net revenue of $6,833 million for the year ended October 31, 2023, was slightly down when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, net revenue declined in our life sciences and applied markets segment in the pharmaceutical market and in the Asia Pacific region primarily related to weaker demand in China and an overall pressure on our customers' capital expenditures compared to the same period last year. The net revenue decline was partially offset by revenue growth from our other segments primarily in Agilent CrossLab. Agilent's net revenue of $6,848 million increased 8 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021.

Product revenue includes revenue generated from the sales of our analytical instrumentation, software and consumables. Revenue from products decreased 3 percent for the year ended October 31, 2023, when compared to 2022. The decrease in product revenue in the year ended October 31, 2023, was primarily due to significant declines in our mass spectrometry, genomics, gas chromatography and cell analysis businesses partially offset by strong growth in our nucleic acid solutions and pathology businesses, and modest growth in our spectroscopy business. Overall, product revenue declined due to our customers' capital expenditure pressures and mostly impacted the pharmaceutical market within our life sciences and applied market segment.

Revenue from products increased 9 percent for the year ended October 31, 2022, when compared to 2021. The growth in product revenue was driven by increased sales within our liquid chromatography, spectroscopy, nucleic acid solutions and consumables businesses.

Services and other revenue consist of contract repair, preventative maintenance, compliance services, repair and maintenance, installation services, and consulting services related to the companion diagnostics and nucleic acid solutions businesses. Services and other revenue increased 7 percent in 2023 as compared to 2022. Services and other revenue increases reflected strong growth from contract repair services, consultative services, per incident repair and maintenance services, and relocation services in all key end markets.

Services and other revenue increased 6 percent in 2022 as compared to 2021. Service revenue increases reflected strong growth from contract repair services, compliance services, installation services, consultative services and relocation services in all key end markets except the academia and government markets.

38

Table of Contents
Net Revenue By Segment

--------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- --------------------- ----- - ----- ---- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
 (in millions)
Net revenue by segment:
Life sciences and applied markets $ 3,856 $ 4,007 $ 3,663 (4)% 9%
Diagnostics and genomics $ 1,409 $ 1,389 $ 1,296 1% 7%
Agilent CrossLab $ 1,568 $ 1,452 $ 1,360 8% 7%
Total net revenue $ 6,833 $ 6,848 $ 6,319 — 8%

Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business decreased 4 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, we saw a significant decline in revenue in the pharmaceutical market and a moderate decline in revenue in the diagnostics and genomics market partially offset by strong growth in the academia and government market and modest growth in the food market when compared to 2022. Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business increased 9 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. For the year ended October 31, 2022, revenue growth was strong within the chemicals and advanced materials markets driven by demand for our spectroscopy, gas chromatography and consumable products. Revenue growth was strong within the pharmaceutical market driven by demand for our liquid chromatography, cell analysis and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry products.

Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business increased 1 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Revenue growth in the pharmaceutical market was strong led by our nucleic acid solutions business which was partially offset by a decline in the academia and government markets when compared to 2022. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. Revenue growth was strong within the pharmaceutical market led by performance from our nucleic acid solutions business.

Revenue in the Agilent CrossLab business increased 8 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, we saw revenue growth across all of our end markets led by strong revenue growth in the pharmaceutical, academia and government, diagnostics and clinical and chemical and advanced materials markets when compared to 2022. Revenue generated by Agilent CrossLab increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. For the year ended October 31, 2022, we saw revenue growth across most of our end markets led by strong revenue growth from the pharmaceutical and chemicals and advanced materials markets when compared 2021.

Costs and Expenses

----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- ---- --------------------- ----- ---- - - --------- ------- -- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
(in millions, except margin data)
Gross margin on products 51.9 % 56.8 % 56.3 % (5) ppts. 1 ppt.
Gross margin on services and other 47.3 % 46.8 % 46.7 % 1 ppt. —
Total gross margin 50.7 % 54.4 % 53.9 % (4) ppts. 1 ppt.
Research and development $ 481 $ 467 $ 441 3% 6%
Selling, general and administrative $ 1,634 $ 1,637 $ 1,619 — 1%
Operating margin 19.8 % 23.6 % 21.3 % (4) ppts. 2 ppts.

Total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased 4 percentage points when compared to 2022. Total gross margin as well as gross margin on products, for the year ended October 31, 2023 was significantly impacted by asset impairment charges of $253 million primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business. Excluding these asset impairment charges, total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 was relatively flat when compared to 2022. Total

39

Table of Contents
gross margin was also impacted by targeted price increases, lower shipping and logistics costs, variable pay expenses and intangible amortization expense offset by the unfavorable impact of currency movements, higher wages, restructuring and other related costs and inventory charges. Total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2022 increased 1 percentage point when compared to 2021. Total gross margin was impacted by higher sales volume, targeted price increases and lower inventory charges which were offset by higher material costs, shipping and logistics costs, wages, transformational initiative costs and intangible amortization expense.

Gross inventory charges were $40 million in 2023, $24 million in 2022 and $29 million in 2021. Sales of previously written down inventory were $9 million in 2023, $11 million in 2022 and $8 million in 2021.

 Research and development expenses for the year ended October 31, 2023 increased 3 percent when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages, program costs in our life sciences and applied markets and diagnostics and genomics businesses and restructuring and other related costs partially offset by the lower variable pay expenses and favorable impact of currency movements. Research and development expenses for the year ended October 31, 2022 increased 6 percent when compared to 2021. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages and program investments in our diagnostics and genomics segment and in our mass spectrometry business within our life sciences and applied markets segment, and additional research and development expenses related to the Resolution Bioscience acquisition.

 Selling, general and administrative expenses were flat in 2023 when compared to 2022. Selling general and administrative expenses in 2022 included a decrease in expenses of $25 million related to the change in the fair value of contingent consideration. Excluding this amount, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2 percent when compared to 2022. The decrease was due to lower variable pay, intangible amortization expense, sales commissions and the favorable impact of currency movements partially offset by higher wages, restructuring and other related costs and asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1 percent in 2022 compared to 2021. The increase was due to higher wages, share-based compensation expense and inflationary pressures mostly offset by lower commissions, acquisition and integration costs, variable pay, transformational initiatives and a decrease related to the change in the fair value of contingent consideration.

Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased 4 percentage points when compared to 2022. Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased mainly due to asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business and restructuring and other related costs.Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2022, increased 2 percentage points when compared to 2021. Operating margin increased due to higher sales volume, increased gross margin, lower commissions and variable pay partially offset by increases in wages, share-based compensation expense and inflationary pressures.

Interest income for the year ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $51 million, $9 million and $2 million, respectively. The increase in interest income in 2023 was primarily due to higher cash balances and increases in interest rates related to our cash and cash equivalents.

Interest expense for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $95 million, $84 million and $81 million, respectively, and relates to the interest charged on our senior notes, term loan, credit facilities, commercial paper and the amortization of the deferred loss recorded upon termination of the forward starting interest rate swap contracts partially offset by the amortization of deferred gains recorded upon termination of interest rate swap contracts. The increase in interest expense is primarily related to higher interest rates on short-term commercial paper and the variable rate on the term loan facility.

Our headcount was approximately 18,100 at October 31, 2023 and 2022.

Other income (expense), net

For the year ended October 31, 2023, other income (expense), net includes income of $43 million related to the net gain on the divestiture of our Resolution Bioscience business and $12 million income related to the provision of site service costs to, and lease income from, Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("Keysight"). The costs associated with these services are reported within income from operations. Other income (expense), net also includes $10 million income related to the defined benefit retirement and post-retirement benefit plans (interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of net actuarial (gain) loss, prior service credits and settlement loss) partially offset by the net loss on the fair value of equity securities of approximately $41 million.

40

Table of Contents
For the year ended October 31, 2022, other income (expense), net includes income of $11 million related to the provision of site service costs to, and lease income from, Keysight. The costs associated with these services are reported within income from operations. Other income (expense), net includes $25 million income related to the defined benefit retirement and post-retirement benefit plans offset by the net loss on the fair value of equity securities of approximately $67 million and a $9 million loss on extinguishment of debt.

For the year ended October 31, 2021, other income (expense), net includes income of $7 million related to the provision of site service costs to, and lease income from, Keysight. The costs associated with these services are reported within income from operations. Other income (expense), net includes a $17 million loss on extinguishment of debt and net gains on the fair value of equity securities of approximately $98 million.

Income Taxes

------------------------------------ ----------------------- -- ---- ---- --- - ---
 Years Ended October 31,
 2023 2022 2021
 (in millions)
Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 99 $ 250 $ 150

For 2023, our income tax expense was $99 million with an effective tax rate of 7.4 percent. For the year ended October 31, 2023, our effective tax rate and the resulting provision for income taxes were impacted by the federal tax benefit of $104 million related to the realized loss on the divestiture of a business. The income taxes for the year ended October 31, 2023, also include the tax benefit of $41 million related to foreign-derived intangible income along with the tax benefit of $30 million related to the release of tax reserves in the U.S. due to the settlement of the audit with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for tax years 2018 and 2019.

For 2022, our income tax expense was $250 million with an effective tax rate of 16.6 percent. For the year ended October 31, 2022, our effective tax rate and the resulting provision for income taxes were impacted by the tax benefit of $46 million related to foreign-derived intangible income.

For 2021, our income tax expense was $150 million with an effective tax rate of 11 percent. For the year ended October 31, 2021, our effective tax rate and the resulting provision for income taxes were impacted by the discrete benefit of $93 million related to the release of tax reserves in various jurisdictions due to audit settlements and the expiration of statutes of limitations. The income taxes for the year ended October 31, 2021, also include the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $29 million.

We have negotiated a tax holiday in Singapore. The tax holiday provides a lower rate of taxation on certain classes of income and requires various thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income. The tax holiday in Singapore was renegotiated and extended through 2030. As a result of the incentive, the impact of the tax holiday decreased income taxes by $54 million, $53 million, and $35 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. The benefit of the tax holiday on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.18, $0.18, and $0.11 in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

With these jurisdictions and the U.S., it is reasonably possible that some tax audits may be completed over the next twelve months. However, management is not able to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of any other future tax payments or change in unrecognized tax benefits, if any.

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations.

41

Table of Contents
Segment Overview

Through October 31, 2023, we have three business segments comprised of the life sciences and applied markets business, diagnostics and genomics business and the Agilent CrossLab business.

Life Sciences and Applied Markets

Our life sciences and applied markets business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, consumables and software that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular and cellular level. Key product categories include: liquid chromatography ("LC") systems and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ("LCMS") systems; gas chromatography ("GC") systems and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry ("GCMS") systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ("ICP-MS") instruments; atomic absorption ("AA") instruments; microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometry ("MP-AES") instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry ("ICP-OES") instruments; raman spectroscopy; cell analysis plate based assays; flow cytometer; real-time cell analyzer; cell imaging systems; microplate reader; laboratory software for sample tracking; information management and analytics; laboratory automation and robotic systems; dissolution testing; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies. Our consumables portfolio is designed to improve customer outcomes. Most of the portfolio is vendor neutral, meaning Agilent can serve and supply customers regardless of their instrument purchase choices. Solutions range from chemistries to supplies. Key product categories in consumables include GC and LC columns, sample preparation products, custom chemistries, and a large selection of laboratory instrument supplies.

Net Revenue

----------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- --------------------- ----- - ----- ---- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
 (in millions)
Net revenue $ 3,856 $ 4,007 $ 3,663 (4)% 9%

Life science and applied markets business revenue in 2023 decreased 4 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to the same period last year. Geographically, revenue decreased 4 percent in the Americas with a 1 percentage point unfavorable currency impact, increased 1 percent in Europe with a 2 percentage point unfavorable currency impact and decreased 7 percent in Asia Pacific with a 4 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The revenue decline in Asia Pacific was driven by China with declines in liquid chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry when compared to 2022.

End market revenue performance in 2023 was mixed as the pharmaceutical market declined significantly, chemicals and advance materials market and environmental and forensics markets remained relatively flat, food market delivered modest growth while academia and government market delivered strong growth when compared to 2022. Revenue decline in the pharmaceutical market was driven by weakness in our liquid chromatography, cell analysis and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry businesses when compared to 2022. Revenue growth in the chemicals and advanced materials market was relatively flat with strength in our spectroscopy, cell analysis and consumables businesses offset by declines in gas chromatography and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry when compared to 2022. Revenue growth in the environmental and forensics market was relatively flat with strength in our cell analysis, liquid chromatography and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry businesses offset by declines in spectroscopy, gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry businesses when compared to 2022. Revenue growth in the food market was primarily driven by strength in our spectroscopy, cell analysis and liquid chromatography businesses compared to 2022. Revenue growth in the academia and government end market was mainly driven by strength in the liquid chromatography, spectroscopy, gas chromatography and the liquid chromatography mass spectrometry businesses when compared to 2022.

Life science and applied markets business revenue in 2022 increased 9 percent compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements for 2022 had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points when compared to 2021. Geographically, revenue increased 11 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, increased 2 percent in Europe with a 7

42

Table of Contents
percentage point unfavorable currency impact and increased 13 percent in Asia Pacific with a 3 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The increase in Asia Pacific was led by strong demand in liquid chromatography systems in China. In 2022, revenue growth was driven by strong growth in liquid chromatography, spectroscopy products and consumables portfolio when compared to 2021.

End market revenue performance in 2022 was mixed with pharmaceutical, chemicals and advanced materials markets and diagnostics and clinical market delivering strong revenue growth, food and environmental and forensics delivering modest revenue growth while academia and government remained relatively flat when compared to 2021. Revenue growth in the pharmaceutical market was primarily driven by our liquid chromatography, cell analysis and consumables businesses. Revenue growth in the chemicals and advanced materials market was mainly driven by strength in our gas chromatography and spectroscopy portfolio as compared to 2021. The academia and government market revenue growth was relatively flat with strength in our liquid chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry businesses offset by other product categories when compared to 2021.

Looking forward, despite the challenging macroeconomic environment, our customers' capital expenditure pressures and geopolitical uncertainties, we are optimistic about our long-term growth opportunities in the life sciences and applied markets as our broad portfolio of products and solutions are well suited to address customer needs. While we anticipate continued volatility in our markets, we expect long term growth across most end markets as we continue to invest in expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolio.

Gross Margin and Operating Margin

The following table shows the life sciences and applied markets business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2023 versus 2022, and 2022 versus 2021.

----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- ---- --------------------- ----- ---- - - -------- ------- ---- ---
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
(in millions, except margin data)
Total gross margin 60.2 % 60.2 % 60.2 % — —
Research and development $ 297 $ 293 $ 272 1% 8%
Selling, general and administrative $ 910 $ 933 $ 915 (2)% 2%
Operating margin 28.9 % 29.6 % 27.8 % (1) ppt. 2 ppts.
Income from operations $ 1,116 $ 1,186 $ 1,017 (6)% 17%

Gross margin was flat in 2023 compared to 2022. Gross margin was impacted by lower revenue, the unfavorable impact of currency movements, higher wages and warranty costs which were fully offset by targeted price increases, lower variable pay, logistics and materials cost. Gross margin was flat in 2022 compared to 2021. Gross margin was impacted by higher materials and logistics costs which were fully offset by price increases, higher sales volume and favorable cash flow hedging gains.

Research and development expenses increased 1 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages and program investments in our software and informatics business partially offset by lower variable pay. Research and development expenses increased 8 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages and program investments in our mass spectrometry and cell analysis businesses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2 percent in 2023 compared to 2022. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to lower variable pay, sales commissions, and marketing expenses, and the favorable impact of currency movements partially offset by higher wages when compared to 2022. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2 percent in 2022 compared to 2021. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to higher wages and marketing expenses partially offset by lower sales commissions, variable pay and the favorable impact of currency movements when compared to 2021.

Operating margin decreased 1 percentage point in 2023 compared to 2022. Operating margin was impacted by lower sales volume and the unfavorable impact of currency movements partially offset by lower variable pay and logistics costs. Operating margin increased 2 percentage points in 2022 compared to 2021. Operating margin was impacted by higher sales volume and favorable currency movements on expenses partially offset by higher wages, material and logistics costs.

43

Table of Contents

Income from Operations

Income from operations in 2023 decreased by $70 million or 6 percent when compared to 2022 on a revenue decrease of $151 million. The decrease in income from operations was primarily due to lower sales volume and unfavorable currency impact when compared to 2022. Income from operations in 2022 increased by $169 million or 17 percent when compared to 2021 on a revenue increase of $344 million. The increase in income from operations was primarily due to higher sales volume.

Diagnostics and Genomics

Our diagnostics and genomics business includes the genomics, nucleic acid contract manufacturing and research and development, pathology, companion diagnostics, reagent partnership and biomolecular analysis businesses.

Our diagnostics and genomics business is comprised of six areas of activity providing active pharmaceutical ingredients ("APIs") for oligo-based therapeutics as well as solutions that include reagents, instruments, software and consumables, which enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the cellular and molecular level. First, our genomics business includes arrays for DNA mutation detection, genotyping, gene copy number determination, identification of gene rearrangements, DNA methylation profiling, gene expression profiling, as well as next generation sequencing ("NGS") target enrichment and genetic data management and interpretation support software. This business also includes solutions that enable clinical labs to identify DNA variants associated with genetic disease and help direct cancer therapy. Second, our nucleic acid solutions business is a contract and development manufacturing organization that provides services related to and the production of synthesized oligonucleotides under pharmaceutical good manufacturing practices ("GMP") conditions for use as API in a class of drugs that utilize nucleic acid molecules for disease therapy. Third, our pathology solutions business is focused on product offerings for cancer diagnostics and anatomic pathology workflows. The broad portfolio of offerings includes immunohistochemistry ("IHC"), in situ hybridization ("ISH"), hematoxylin and eosin ("H&E") staining and special staining. Fourth, we also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential tissue pharmacodiagnostics, also known as companion diagnostics, which may be used to identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. Fifth, the reagent partnership business provides clinical flow cytometry reagents for routine cancer diagnostics. This business also provides bulk antibodies as raw materials and associated assay development services to IVD manufacturers, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Finally, our biomolecular analysis business provides complete workflow solutions, including instruments, consumables and software, for quality control analysis of nucleic acid samples. Samples are analyzed using quantitative and qualitative techniques to ensure accuracy in further genomics analysis techniques including NGS, utilized in clinical and life science research applications.

Net Revenue

----------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- --------------------- ----- - ----- -- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
 (in millions)

Net revenue $ 1,409 $ 1,389 $ 1,296 1% 7%

Diagnostics and genomics business revenue increased 1 percent in 2023 compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements for 2023 had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points when compared to the same period last year. Geographically, revenue increased 4 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, increased 2 percent in Europe with a 1 percentage point unfavorable currency impact and decreased 9 percent in Asia Pacific with a 6 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The increase in the Americas was driven by strong growth in our nucleic acid solutions and reagent partnership businesses and growth in our pathology business, which was partially offset by a decline in our biomolecular analysis and genomics businesses. The increase in Europe was driven by growth in our pathology and reagent partnership businesses and was somewhat offset by a decline in our biomolecular analysis business. The revenue decline in Asia Pacific was driven by our biomolecular analysis and genomics businesses and an overall weakness in China.

In 2023, revenue performance in the pharmaceutical market was led by strong revenue growth in our nucleic acid solutions business. We also saw moderate revenue growth in diagnostics and clinical markets led by our pathology and reagent partnership businesses when compared to 2022. Revenue in the academia and government markets declined due to softness in our biomolecular analysis and genomics businesses.

44

Table of Contents
Diagnostics and genomics business revenue in 2022 increased 7 percent compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. Geographically, revenue increased 13 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, decreased 1 percent in Europe with a 7 percentage point unfavorable currency impact and increased 6 percent in Asia Pacific with a 7 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The increase in the Americas was driven by strong performance in our nucleic acid solutions, biomolecular analysis, reagent partnership and genomics portfolios. In Europe, the 7 percentage point unfavorable impact of currency on revenue was partially offset by revenue growth in our reagent partnership, pathology and companion diagnostics businesses. Revenue growth in Asia Pacific was primarily driven by an increase in China as well as a strong performance across our entire portfolio.

In 2022, revenue performance in the pharmaceutical market was led by strong revenue growth in our nucleic acid solutions and moderate revenue growth in our biomolecular analysis and genomics businesses. We also saw moderate revenue growth in diagnostics and clinical and academia and government markets led by our biomolecular analysis, pathology, genomics and reagent partnership businesses when compared to 2021.

Looking forward, despite the challenging macroeconomic environment, geopolitical uncertainties and the short-term unfavorable market conditions affecting our genomics business, we are optimistic about our long-term growth opportunities in our end markets and continue to invest in expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolio. We remain positive about our growth in our end markets as our product portfolio around OMNIS and PD-L1 assays continues to gain strength with our customers in clinical oncology applications, and our next generation sequencing related solutions continue to be adopted. Market demand in the nucleic acid solutions business related to therapeutic oligo programs continues, and with the expansion of our nucleic acid solutions production facility in Frederick, Colorado, we are well positioned to serve more of the market demand. We will continue to invest in research and development and seek to expand our position in developing countries and emerging markets.

Gross Margin and Operating Margin

The following table shows the diagnostics and genomics business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2023 versus 2022, and 2022 versus 2021.

----------------------------------- ----------------------- --- --------------------- ---- --------------------- --- ---- - - --------- ------ ---- ---
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
(in millions, except margin data)
Total gross margin 51.8 % 53.5 % 52.8 % (2) ppts. 1 ppt.
Research and development $ 142 $ 138 $ 128 3% 8%
Selling, general and administrative $ 292 $ 303 $ 283 (4)% 7%
Operating margin 21.0 % 21.7 % 21.0 % (1) ppt. 1 ppt.
Income from operations $ 296 $ 301 $ 273 (2)% 10%

Gross margin decreased 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Gross margin decreased due to volume decline in our genomics business resulting in unfavorable business mix. Gross margin was also impacted by the unfavorable impact of currency movements, higher wages and infrastructure costs partially offset by lower variable pay. Gross margin increased 1 percentage point in 2022 when compared to 2021. Gross margin increased due to higher sales volume offsetting the higher wages and logistics costs.

Research and development expenses increased 3 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages, additional expenses related to a recent acquisition and higher infrastructure costs. Research and development expenses increased 8 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Research and development expenses increased primarily due to higher wages and additional expenses related to the Resolution Bioscience acquisition and higher program investments related to satisfying regulatory requirements such as the EU IVDR guidelines.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 4 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to lower variable pay, the favorable impact of currency movements and lower infrastructure costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Selling general and administrative expenses increased due to higher wages and additional expenses related to the Resolution Bioscience acquisition and inflationary pressures partially offset by lower commissions and favorable currency movements.

45

Table of Contents
Operating margin decreased 1 percentage point in 2023 when compared to 2022. The decrease in operating margin resulted from lower gross margins, the unfavorable impact of currency movements and additional costs related to a recent acquisition partially offset by lower variable pay. Operating margin increased 1 percentage point in 2022 when compared to 2021. The increase in operating margin resulted from higher revenue growth and gross margins, which offset the increase in wages, inflationary pressures, logistics costs and program investments.

Income from Operations

Income from operations in 2023 decreased by $5 million or 2 percent when compared to 2022 on a revenue increase of $20 million. Income from operations in 2022 increased by $28 million or 10 percent when compared to 2021 on a revenue increase of $93 million. Income from operations increased due to higher revenue and gross margin improvement partially offset by higher wages, logistics costs and program investments.

Agilent CrossLab

The Agilent CrossLab business spans the entire lab with its extensive services portfolio, which is designed to improve customer outcomes. The majority of the portfolio is vendor neutral, meaning we can serve and supply customers regardless of their instrument purchase choices. The services portfolio includes repairs, parts, maintenance, installations, training, compliance support, software as a service, asset management, consulting and various other custom services to support the customers' laboratory operations. Custom services are tailored to meet the specific application needs of various industries and to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements.

Net Revenue

----------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- --------------------- ----- - ----- -- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
 (in millions)

Total net revenue $ 1,568 $ 1,452 $ 1,360 8% 7%

Agilent CrossLab business revenue increased 8 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements for 2023 had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points when compared to 2022. Geographically, revenue increased 12 percent in the Americas with a 1 percentage point favorable currency impact, increased 10 percent in Europe with no currency impact and increased 3 percent in Asia Pacific with a 5 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. During the year ended October 31, 2023, revenue growth in all three regions was driven by contract repair services, per-incident repair services and consultative services, with installation related service in China partially offsetting the overall growth in Asia Pacific.

Agilent CrossLab business revenue increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. Geographically, revenue increased 11 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, increased 1 percent in Europe with a 9 percentage point unfavorable currency impact and increased 7 percent in Asia Pacific with a 5 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. During the year ended October 31, 2022, revenue growth in all three regions was driven by contract repair services, compliance services, installation services and consultative services.

Looking forward, Agilent CrossLab services are well positioned to continue their success in our key end markets by supporting a growing installed base of instruments. Digital and remote capabilities will continue to be a key factor in improving the service quality and the customers' experience. Geographically, the business is well diversified across all regions to take advantage of local market opportunities and to hedge against weakness in any one region.

46

Gross Margin and Operating Margin

The following table shows the Agilent CrossLab business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2023 versus 2022 and 2022 versus 2021.

----------------------------------- ----------------------- --- --------------------- ---- --------------------- --- ---- - - ------- ------- ---- ----
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
(in millions, except margin data)
Total gross margin 49.3 % 47.6 % 46.8 % 2 ppts. 1 ppt.
Research and development $ 33 $ 32 $ 34 2% (5)%
Selling, general and administrative $ 276 $ 288 $ 279 (4)% 3%
Operating margin 29.5 % 25.5 % 23.8 % 4 ppts. 2 ppts.
Income from operations $ 463 $ 370 $ 323 25% 15%

Gross margin increased 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Gross margin was impacted by higher sales volume, targeted price increases and lower variable pay that improved margins, which were partially offset by higher wages, service delivery costs for logistics and parts and the unfavorable impact of currency movements. Gross margin increased 1 percentage point in 2022 when compared to 2021. Gross margin was impacted by higher sales volume and targeted price increases that improved margins, which were partially offset by higher wages and service delivery costs for logistics and parts.

Research and development expenses increased 2 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages, partially offset by lower variable pay and the favorable impact of currency movements. Research and development expenses decreased 5 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Research and development expenses decreased mainly due to cost efficiencies in certain research and development projects which led to lower expenditures.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 4 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to lower variable pay and a favorable impact of currency movements partially offset by higher wages. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to higher wages, share-based compensation expense and inflationary pressures mostly offset by lower commissions, variable pay, and favorable impact of currency movements.

Operating margin increased 4 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Operating margin increased mostly due to higher sales volume, targeted price increases and lower variable pay that improved margins in addition to a reduction in expenses. Operating margin increased 2 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. Operating margin increased mostly driven by higher sales volume with improved gross margins and higher cash flow hedging gains.

Income from Operations

Income from operations in 2023 increased by $93 million or 25 percent when compared to 2022 on a revenue increase of $116 million. Income from operations increased primarily due to higher sales volume and targeted price increases. Income from operations in 2022 increased by $47 million or 15 percent when compared to 2021 on a revenue increase of $92 million. Income from operations increased primarily due to higher sales volume.

Financial Condition

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months and beyond, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations.

47

Our financial position as of October 31, 2023 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $1,590 million as compared to $1,053 million as of October 31, 2022.

We may, from time to time, retire certain outstanding debt of ours through open market cash purchases, privately-negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such transactions, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors.

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,772 million in 2023 as compared to $1,312 million provided in 2022 and $1,485 million provided in 2021. Net cash paid for income taxes was approximately $199 million in 2023 compared to income taxes paid of $279 million in 2022 and $211 million, in 2021. For the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, other assets and liabilities provided cash of $47 million, used cash of $8 million and $14 million, respectively.

In 2023, accounts receivable provided cash of $132 million, compared to cash used of $321 million in 2022, and $128 million in 2021. Days' sales outstanding as of October 31, were 69 days in 2023, 68 days in 2022 and 64 days in 2021. In 2023, cash provided in accounts receivable was driven by stronger collections compared to 2022. The increase in cash used in accounts receivable in 2022 compared to 2021 related to the transitory impacts of shutdowns in China. In addition, we had a change in the mix of unbilled receivables primarily due to our nucleic acid solutions business, which has a longer cash conversion cycle. The change in accounts payable used cash of $171 million in 2023, provided cash of $121 million in 2022 and $64 million in 2021. The change in accounts payable in 2023 compared to 2022 was due to less expenditures for direct materials as we optimized our inventory level in 2023. Cash used in inventory was $33 million in 2023, $248 million in 2022 and $136 million in 2021. Inventory days on-hand increased to 120 days in 2023 compared to 112 days in 2022 and increased compared to 98 days in 2021.

The employee compensation and benefits liability used cash of $91 million for the year ended October 31, 2023, compared to cash used of $22 million in 2022 and cash provided of $112 million in 2021. In 2023, the change was largely due to a lower accrual for variable pay compared to 2022. In 2022, the change was primarily due to higher variable and incentive payments and a reduction in the employee vacation liability compared to 2021. We paid approximately $185 million in 2023 under our variable and incentive pay programs compared to $201 million in 2022 and $119 million in 2021.

We made no contributions to our U.S defined benefit plans in 2023, 2022 and 2021. We contributed $21 million in 2023 and $17 million in 2022 and $19 million in 2021 to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans, respectively. We did not contribute to our U.S. post-retirement benefit plans in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Our non-U.S. defined benefit plans are generally funded ratably throughout the year. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. We do not expect to contribute to our U.S. plans and U.S. post-retirement benefit plans during 2024. We expect to contribute $18 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during 2024.

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities in 2023 was $310 million and in 2022 was $338 million as compared to net cash used of $749 million in 2021.

Investments in property, plant and equipment were $298 million in 2023, $291 million in 2022 and $188 million in 2021. Our anticipated capital expenditures for fiscal year 2024 will be approximately $400 million. These continued investments in property plant and equipment are primarily due to the planned expansion of our nucleic acid solutions production facility in Frederick, Colorado. In January 2023, we announced that we will be investing approximately $725 million to further expand our manufacturing capacity for production of nucleic acid based therapeutics in Frederick, Colorado. Some of our investment may qualify for reimbursement incentives, which will not fully be known until the expansion is substantially complete.

In 2023, proceeds from the divestiture of our Resolution Bioscience business were $50 million. In 2023, we invested $51 million for two acquisitions compared to $52 million for our acquisition of Polymer Standards Service and advanced artificial intelligence technology in 2022 and $547 million primarily related to the acquisition of Resolution Bioscience in 2021.

48

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities in 2023 was $930 million compared to $1,372 million in 2022 and $696 million in 2021.

Treasury Stock Repurchases

2019 Repurchase Program. During the year ended October 31, 2021, we repurchased and retired 3.1 million shares for $365 million under this authorization. Effective February 18, 2021, the 2019 repurchase program was terminated and replaced by the 2021 repurchase program. The remaining authorization under the 2019 repurchase plan of $193 million expired on February 18, 2021.

2021 Repurchase Program. During the year ended October 31, 2021, we repurchased and retired 3.0 million shares for $423 million under this authorization. During the year ended October 31, 2022, we repurchased and retired 8.4 million shares for $1,139 million under this authorization. During the year ended October 31, 2023 we repurchased and retired 661,739 shares for $99 million, excluding excise taxes, under this authorization. On March 1, 2023, the 2021 repurchase program was terminated and the remaining authorization of $339 million expired.

2023 Repurchase Program. On January 9, 2023, we announced that our board of directors had approved a share repurchase program (the "2023 repurchase program") designed, among other things, to reduce or eliminate dilution resulting from issuance of stock under the company's employee equity incentive programs. The 2023 repurchase program authorizes the purchase of up to $2.0 billion, excluding excise taxes, of our common stock at the company's discretion and has no fixed termination date. The 2023 repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended, amended or discontinued at any time. The 2023 repurchase program commenced on March 1, 2023, and also terminated and replaced the 2021 repurchase program. During the year ended October 31, 2023 we repurchased and retired 3.9 million shares for $476 million, excluding excise taxes, under this authorization. As of October 31, 2023, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to approximately $1,524 million of our common stock under the 2023 repurchase program.

The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which was enacted into law on August 16, 2022, imposed a nondeductible 1% excise tax on the net value of certain stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. As a result, we recorded the applicable excise tax of $3.2 million during the year ended October 31, 2023, as an incremental cost of the shares repurchased and a corresponding liability for the excise tax payable in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet.

Dividends

 For the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, cash dividends of $265 million, $250 million and $236 million were paid on the company's outstanding common stock, respectively. On November 15, 2023, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.236 per share of common stock, or approximately $69 million which will be paid on January 24, 2024 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 2, 2024. The timing and amounts of any future dividends are subject to determination and approval by our board of directors.

Contingent Consideration Payment

During the year ended October 31, 2023, we paid a total of $72 million in contingent consideration payments, of which $4 million is included as an outflow in cash from operations. We paid $65 million related to the achievement of a certain technical milestone associated with our acquisition of Resolution Bioscience and $7 million related to other acquisitions.

Short-term Debt

Credit Facilities. On June 7, 2023, we entered into a new credit agreement with a group of financial institutions which provides for a $1.5 billion five-year unsecured credit facility that will expire on June 7, 2028, and an incremental revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount of up to $750 million. The credit facility replaced the existing credit facility which was terminated on the closing date of the new facility. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we borrowed and repaid $360 million under the credit facility. As of both October 31, 2023 and 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding under both the credit facility and the incremental revolving credit facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facility during the year ended October 31, 2023.

On June 2, 2023, we entered into an Uncommitted Money Market Line Credit agreement with Societe Generale which provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $300 million. The credit facility is an uncommitted short-term cash advance

49

facility where each request must be at least $1 million. The interest rate is set by the lender at the time of the borrowing and is fixed for the duration of the advance. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we borrowed and repaid $61 million. As of October 31, 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.

Commercial Paper. Under our U.S. commercial paper program, we may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.5 billion with up to 397-day maturities. At any point in time, the company intends to maintain available commitments under its revolving credit facility in an amount at least equal to the amount of the commercial paper notes outstanding. Amounts available under the program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed from time to time. The proceeds from issuances under the program may be used for general corporate purposes. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we borrowed $1.67 billion and repaid $1.70 billion. As of October 31, 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding under our U.S. commercial paper program. As of October 31, 2022, we had borrowings of $35 million outstanding under the U.S. commercial paper program and had a weighted average annual interest rate of 3.54 percent.

Long-term Debt

Term Loan Facility. On April 15, 2022, we entered into a term loan agreement with a group of financial institutions, which provided for a $600 million delayed draw term loan that will mature on April 15, 2025. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, we had $600 million borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility and had weighted average interest rates of 6.22 percent and 3.98 percent, respectively. Loans under the term loan agreement bear interest, at our option, either at: (i) the alternate base rate, as defined in the term loan agreement, plus the applicable margin for such loans or (ii) adjusted term SOFR, as defined in the term loan agreement, plus the applicable margin for such loans. The term loan agreement contains customary representations and warranties as well as customary affirmative and negative covenants. We were in compliance with the covenants for the term loan during the year ended October 31, 2023.

On May 4, 2022, we used the proceeds from the term loan facility and repaid the $600 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 3.875% 2023 senior notes. The total redemption price of approximately $609 million was computed in accordance with the terms of the 2023 senior notes as the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and unpaid interest on the notes being redeemed. In May 2022, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $9 million in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations. In addition, $7 million of accrued interest, up to but not including the applicable redemption date, was paid.

On December 14, 2023, we prepaid $120 million of our outstanding $600 million term loan.

2026 Senior Notes. On September 22, 2016, the company issued aggregate principal amount of $300 million in senior notes ("2026 senior notes"). The 2026 senior notes were issued at 99.624% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on September 22, 2026 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.05% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March 22nd and September 22nd of each year and payments commenced March 22, 2017.

In February 2016, Agilent executed three forward-starting pay fixed/receive variable interest rate swaps for the notional amount of $300 million in connection with future interest payments to be made on our 2026 senior notes issued on September 15, 2016. The swap arrangements were terminated on September 15, 2016 with a payment of $10 million, and we recognized this as a deferred loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) which is being amortized to interest expense over the life of the 2026 senior notes. The remaining loss to be amortized related to the interest rate swap agreements at October 31, 2023 was $(3) million.

2029 Senior Notes. On September 16, 2019, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes ("2029 senior notes"). The 2029 senior notes were issued at 99.316% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on September 15, 2029, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.75% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March 15th and September 15th of each year and payments commenced on March 15, 2020.

In August 2019, Agilent executed treasury lock agreements for $250 million in connection with future interest payments to be made on our 2029 senior notes issued on September 16, 2019. We designated the treasury lock as a cash flow hedge. The treasury lock contracts were terminated on September 6, 2019 and we recognized a deferred loss of $6 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) which is being amortized to interest expense over the life of the 2029 senior notes. The remaining loss to be amortized related to the treasury lock agreements at October 31, 2023 was $(3) million.

2030 Senior Notes. On June 4, 2020, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes ("2030 senior notes"). The 2030 senior notes were issued at 99.812% of their principal amount. The 2030 senior notes will mature on

50

June 4, 2030, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.10% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on June 4th and December 4th of each year and payments commenced on December 4, 2020.

2031 Senior Notes. On March 12, 2021, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $850 million in senior notes ("2031 senior notes"). The 2031 senior notes were issued at 99.822% of their principal amount. The 2031 senior notes will mature on March 12, 2031, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.30% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March 12th and September 12th of each year and payments commenced on September 12, 2021.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other

Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization.

Contractual Commitments

Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors.

The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October 31, 2023, for Agilent operations and excludes amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheet (in millions):

--------------------------------------------------- ----------------- --- ------------------ - ------------------- -- -------------------- - - - -
 Less than oneyear One to three years Three to five years More than five years
Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 694 $ 13 $ — $ —
Other purchase commitments 123 — — —
Total $ 817 $ 13 $ — $ —

Commitments to Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers.  We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. The above amounts represent the commitments under the open purchase orders with our suppliers that have not yet been received. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually provide us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. We expect to fulfill most of our purchase commitments for inventory within one year.

Other Purchase Commitments. We have categorized "other purchase commitments" related to contracts with professional services suppliers. Typically, we can cancel contracts with professional services suppliers without penalties. For those contracts that are not cancelable without penalties, there are termination fees and costs or commitments for continued spending that we are obligated to pay to a supplier under each contact's termination period before such contract can be cancelled. Our contractual obligations with these suppliers under "other purchase commitments" were approximately $123 million.

We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of October 31, 2023, or October 31, 2022.

51

On Balance Sheet Arrangements

The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations on our October 31, 2023 balance sheet (in millions):

---------------- ----------------- --- ------------------ --- ------------------- ----- -------------------- - --- - -----
 Less than oneyear One to three years Three to five years More than five years
Senior notes $ — $ 300 $ — $ 1,850

Term Loan — 600 — —

Interest expense 93 124 88 84
Transition tax 37 94 — —
Operating leases 51 54 25 59
Total $ 181 $ 1,172 $ 113 $ 1,993

Other long-term liabilities as of October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022 include $162 million and $216 million, respectively, related to long-term income tax liabilities. Of these amounts, $68 million and $99 million related to uncertain tax positions as of October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022, respectively. We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement. As of October 31, 2023, the remaining $94 million included in other long-term liabilities relates to the U.S. transition tax payment which is due in installments over the next three years.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[discussed in Part I Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding growth opportunities, including for revenue and our end markets, strength and drivers of the markets into which we sell, sales funnels, our strategic direction, new product and service introductions and the position of our current products and services, market demand for and adoption of our products, the ability of our products and solutions to address customer needs and meet industry requirements, our focus on differentiating our product solutions, improving our customers’ experience and growing our earnings, future financial results, our operating margin, mix, our investments, including in manufacturing infrastructure, research and development and expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolios, expanding our position in developing countries and emerging markets, our focus on balanced capital allocation, our contributions to our pension and other defined benefit plans, impairment and adjustments of goodwill and other intangible assets, the impact of foreign currency movements, our hedging programs and other actions to offset the effects of tariffs and foreign currency movements, our future effective tax rate, tax valuation allowance and unrecognized tax benefits, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements, including through cash generated from operations, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, indemnification, source and supply of materials used in our products, our sales, our purchase commitments, our capital expenditures, the integration and effects of our acquisitions and other transactions, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, our stock repurchase program and dividends, macroeconomic environment and geopolitical uncertainties, interest rate and inflationary pressures, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Part I Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

30

Table of Contents

Overview and Executive Summary

Agilent Technologies Inc. ("]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[' capital expenditure pressures and mostly impacted the pharmaceutical market within our life sciences and applied market segment.

Revenue from products increased 9 percent for the year ended October 31, 2022, when compared to 2021. The growth in product revenue was driven by increased sales within our liquid chromatography, spectroscopy, nucleic acid solutions and consumables businesses.

Services and other revenue consist of contract repair, preventative maintenance, compliance services, repair and maintenance, installation services, and consulting services related to the companion diagnostics and nucleic acid solutions businesses. Services and other revenue increased 7 percent in 2023 as compared to 2022. Services and other revenue increases reflected strong growth from contract repair services, consultative services, per incident repair and maintenance services, and relocation services in all key end markets.

Services and other revenue increased 6 percent in 2022 as compared to 2021. Service revenue increases reflected strong growth from contract repair services, compliance services, installation services, consultative services and relocation services in all key end markets except the academia and government markets.

38

Table of Contents
Net Revenue By Segment

--------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- --------------------- ----- - ----- ---- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
 (in millions)
Net revenue by segment:
Life sciences and applied markets $ 3,856 $ 4,007 $ 3,663 (4)% 9%
Diagnostics and genomics $ 1,409 $ 1,389 $ 1,296 1% 7%
Agilent CrossLab $ 1,568 $ 1,452 $ 1,360 8% 7%
Total net revenue $ 6,833 $ 6,848 $ 6,319 — 8%

Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business decreased 4 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, we saw a significant decline in revenue in the pharmaceutical market and a moderate decline in revenue in the diagnostics and genomics market partially offset by strong growth in the academia and government market and modest growth in the food market when compared to 2022. Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business increased 9 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. For the year ended October 31, 2022, revenue growth was strong within the chemicals and advanced materials markets driven by demand for our spectroscopy, gas chromatography and consumable products. Revenue growth was strong within the pharmaceutical market driven by demand for our liquid chromatography, cell analysis and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry products.

Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business increased 1 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Revenue growth in the pharmaceutical market was strong led by our nucleic acid solutions business which was partially offset by a decline in the academia and government markets when compared to 2022. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. Revenue growth was strong within the pharmaceutical market led by performance from our nucleic acid solutions business.

Revenue in the Agilent CrossLab business increased 8 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, we saw revenue growth across all of our end markets led by strong revenue growth in the pharmaceutical, academia and government, diagnostics and clinical and chemical and advanced materials markets when compared to 2022. Revenue generated by Agilent CrossLab increased 7 percent in 2022 when compared to 2021. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 4 percentage points in 2022 when compared to 2021. For the year ended October 31, 2022, we saw revenue growth across most of our end markets led by strong revenue growth from the pharmaceutical and chemicals and advanced materials markets when compared 2021.

Costs and Expenses

----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- --------------------- ---- --------------------- ----- ---- - - --------- ------- -- --
 Years Ended October 31, 2023 over 2022 Change 2022 over 2021 Change
 2023 2022 2021
(in millions, except margin data)
Gross margin on products 51.9 % 56.8 % 56.3 % (5) ppts. 1 ppt.
Gross margin on services and other 47.3 % 46.8 % 46.7 % 1 ppt. —
Total gross margin 50.7 % 54.4 % 53.9 % (4) ppts. 1 ppt.
Research and development $ 481 $ 467 $ 441 3% 6%
Selling, general and administrative $ 1,634 $ 1,637 $ 1,619 — 1%
Operating margin 19.8 % 23.6 % 21.3 % (4) ppts. 2 ppts.

Total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased 4 percentage points when compared to 2022. Total gross margin as well as gross margin on products, for the year ended October 31, 2023 was significantly impacted by asset impairment charges of $253 million primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business. Excluding these asset impairment charges, total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 was relatively flat when compared to 2022. Total

39

Table of Contents
gross margin was also impacted by targeted price increases, lower shipping and logistics costs, variable pay expenses and intangible amortization expense offset by the unfavorable impact of currency movements, higher wages, restructuring and other related costs and inventory charges. Total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2022 increased 1 percentage point when compared to 2021. Total gross margin was impacted by higher sales volume, targeted price increases and lower inventory charges which were offset by higher material costs, shipping and logistics costs, wages, transformational initiative costs and intangible amortization expense.

Gross inventory charges were $40 million in 2023, $24 million in 2022 and $29 million in 2021. Sales of previously written down inventory were $9 million in 2023, $11 million in 2022 and $8 million in 2021.

 Research and development expenses for the year ended October 31, 2023 increased 3 percent when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages, program costs in our life sciences and applied markets and diagnostics and genomics businesses and restructuring and other related costs partially offset by the lower variable pay expenses and favorable impact of currency movements. Research and development expenses for the year ended October 31, 2022 increased 6 percent when compared to 2021. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages and program investments in our diagnostics and genomics segment and in our mass spectrometry business within our life sciences and applied markets segment, and additional research and development expenses related to the Resolution Bioscience acquisition.

 Selling, general and administrative expenses were flat in 2023 when compared to 2022. Selling general and administrative expenses in 2022 included a decrease in expenses of $25 million related to the change in the fair value of contingent consideration. Excluding this amount, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2 percent when compared to 2022. The decrease was due to lower variable pay, intangible amortization expense, sales commissions and the favorable impact of currency movements partially offset by higher wages, restructuring and other related costs and asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1 percent in 2022 compared to 2021. The increase was due to higher wages, share-based compensation expense and inflationary pressures mostly offset by lower commissions, acquisition and integration costs, variable pay, transformational initiatives and a decrease related to the change in the fair value of contingent consideration.

Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased 4 percentage points when compared to 2022. Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased mainly due to asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business and restructuring and other related costs.Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2022, increased 2 percentage points when compared to 2021. Operating margin increased due to higher sales volume, increased gross margin, lower commissions and variable pay partially offset by increases in wages, share-based compensation expense and inflationary pressures.

Interest income for the year ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $51 million, $9 million and $2 million, respectively. The increase in interest income in 2023 was primarily due to higher cash balances and increases in interest rates related to our cash and cash equivalents.

Interest expense for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $95 million, $84 million and $81 million, respectively, and relates to the interest charged on our senior notes, term loan, credit facilities, commercial paper and the amortization of the deferred loss recorded upon termination of the forward starting interest rate swap contracts partially offset by the amortization of deferred gains recorded upon termination of interest rate swap contracts. The increase in interest expense is primarily related to higher interest rates on short-term commercial paper and the variable rate on the term loan facility.

Our headcount was approximately 18,100 at October 31, 2023 and 2022.

Other income (expense), net

For the year ended October 31, 2023, other income (expense), net includes income of $43 million related to the net gain on the divestiture of our Resolution Bioscience business and $12 million income related to the provision of site service costs to, and lease income from, Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

['s outstanding common stock, respectively. On November 15, 2023, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.236 per share of common stock, or approximately $69 million which will be paid on January 24, 2024 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 2, 2024. The timing and amounts of any future dividends are subject to determination and approval by our board of directors.

Contingent Consideration Payment

During the year ended October 31, 2023, we paid a total of $72 million in contingent consideration payments, of which $4 million is included as an outflow in cash from operations. We paid $65 million related to the achievement of a certain technical milestone associated with our acquisition of Resolution Bioscience and $7 million related to other acquisitions.

Short-term Debt

Credit Facilities. On June 7, 2023, we entered into a new credit agreement with a group of financial institutions which provides for a $1.5 billion five-year unsecured credit facility that will expire on June 7, 2028, and an incremental revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount of up to $750 million. The credit facility replaced the existing credit facility which was terminated on the closing date of the new facility. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we borrowed and repaid $360 million under the credit facility. As of both October 31, 2023 and 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding under both the credit facility and the incremental revolving credit facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facility during the year ended October 31, 2023.

On June 2, 2023, we entered into an Uncommitted Money Market Line Credit agreement with Societe Generale which provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $300 million. The credit facility is an uncommitted short-term cash advance

49

facility where each request must be at least $1 million. The interest rate is set by the lender at the time of the borrowing and is fixed for the duration of the advance. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we borrowed and repaid $61 million. As of October 31, 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.

Commercial Paper. Under our U.S. commercial paper program, we may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.5 billion with up to 397-day maturities. At any point in time, the company intends to maintain available commitments under its revolving credit facility in an amount at least equal to the amount of the commercial paper notes outstanding. Amounts available under the program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed from time to time. The proceeds from issuances under the program may be used for general corporate purposes. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we borrowed $1.67 billion and repaid $1.70 billion. As of October 31, 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding under our U.S. commercial paper program. As of October 31, 2022, we had borrowings of $35 million outstanding under the U.S. commercial paper program and had a weighted average annual interest rate of 3.54 percent.

Long-term Debt

Term Loan Facility. On April 15, 2022, we entered into a term loan agreement with a group of financial institutions, which provided for a $600 million delayed draw term loan that will mature on April 15, 2025. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, we had $600 million borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility and had weighted average interest rates of 6.22 percent and 3.98 percent, respectively. Loans under the term loan agreement bear interest, at our option, either at: (i) the alternate base rate, as defined in the term loan agreement, plus the applicable margin for such loans or (ii) adjusted term SOFR, as defined in the term loan agreement, plus the applicable margin for such loans. The term loan agreement contains customary representations and warranties as well as customary affirmative and negative covenants. We were in compliance with the covenants for the term loan during the year ended October 31, 2023.

On May 4, 2022, we used the proceeds from the term loan facility and repaid the $600 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 3.875% 2023 senior notes. The total redemption price of approximately $609 million was computed in accordance with the terms of the 2023 senior notes as the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and unpaid interest on the notes being redeemed. In May 2022, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $9 million in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations. In addition, $7 million of accrued interest, up to but not including the applicable redemption date, was paid.

On December 14, 2023, we prepaid $120 million of our outstanding $600 million term loan.

2026 Senior Notes. On September 22, 2016, the company issued aggregate principal amount of $300 million in senior notes ("]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...
