================================================================================
CIK: 0001035267
Company Name: INTUITIVE SURGICAL INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-10
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 09:04:45
================================================================================

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview
Open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body. However, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to patients, typically resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs, and additional pain and suffering relative to minimally invasive surgery, where MIS is available. For over three decades, MIS has reduced trauma to patients by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions. MIS has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures.
Da Vinci Surgical Systems enable surgeons to extend the benefits of MIS to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery by using computational, robotic, and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of traditional open surgery or conventional MIS. Surgeons using a da Vinci Surgical System operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3D, high-definition image of the surgical field. This immersive console connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. While seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to open surgical technique. Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of articulation of the surgical instruments used in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hand. In designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use.
Our da Vinci products fall into five broad categories: da Vinci Surgical Systems, da Vinci instruments and accessories, da Vinci Stapling, da Vinci Energy, and da Vinci Vision, including Firefly Fluorescence imaging systems and da Vinci Endoscopes. We also provide a comprehensive suite of systems, learning, and services offerings. Digitally-enabled for nearly three decades, these three offerings aim to decrease variability by providing dependable, consistent functionality and an integrated user experience. Our systems category includes robotic platforms, software, vision, energy, and instruments and accessories. Our learning category includes educational technology, such as simulation and telepresence, as well as technical training programs and personalized peer-to-peer learning opportunities. Our services category assists and optimizes minimally invasive programs through readiness, on-demand support, consultation for minimally invasive program optimization, and hospitals customized analytics. Within our integrated ecosystem, our focus is to decrease variability in surgery by offering actionable insights, with digital solutions, to take action with the potential to improve outcomes, personalize learning, and optimize efficiency. We take a holistic approach, offering intelligent technology and systems designed to work together to make MIS intervention more available and applicable.
We have commercialized the following da Vinci Surgical Systems: the da Vinci standard Surgical System in 1999, the da Vinci S Surgical System in 2006, the da Vinci Si Surgical System in 2009, and the fourth generation da Vinci Xi Surgical System in 2014. We extended our fourth-generation platform by adding the da Vinci X Surgical System, commercialized in 2017, and the da Vinci SP Surgical System, commercialized in 2018. The da Vinci SP Surgical System accesses the body through a single incision, while the other da Vinci Surgical Systems access the body through multiple incisions. All da Vinci systems include a surgeon’s console (or consoles), imaging electronics, a patient-side cart, and computational hardware and software. We are in the early stages of launching our da Vinci SP Surgical System, and we have an installed base of 121 da Vinci SP Surgical Systems as of December 31, 2022. We have received FDA clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System for urologic and certain transoral procedures, and we have received regulatory clearance in South Korea, where the da Vinci SP Surgical System may be used for a broad set of procedures. In September 2022, we also received regulatory clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System in Japan for the same set of procedures as can be performed on the da Vinci Xi Surgical System in Japan. We plan to seek FDA clearances for additional indications for da Vinci SP over time. We also plan to seek clearances in other OUS markets over time. The success of the da Vinci SP Surgical System is dependent on positive experiences and improved clinical outcomes for the procedures for which it has been cleared as well as securing additional clinical clearances.
We offer approximately 70 different multi-port da Vinci instruments to provide surgeons with flexibility in choosing the types of tools needed to perform a particular surgery. These multi-port instruments are generally robotically controlled and provide end effectors (tips) that are similar to those used in either open or laparoscopic surgery. We offer advanced instrumentation for the da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi platforms, including da Vinci Energy and da Vinci Stapler products, to provide surgeons with sophisticated, computer-aided tools to precisely and efficiently interact with tissue. Da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi Surgical Systems share the same instruments, whereas the da Vinci Si Surgical System uses instruments that are not compatible with da Vinci X or da Vinci Xi systems. We currently offer nine core instruments on our da Vinci SP Surgical System. We plan to expand the SP instrument offering over time.
Training technologies include our Intuitive Simulation products, our Intuitive Telepresence remote case observation and telementoring tools, and our dual console for use in surgeon proctoring and collaborative surgery.
In 2019, the FDA cleared our Ion endoluminal system to enable minimally invasive biopsies in the lung. Our Ion system extends our commercial offering beyond surgery into diagnostic procedures with this first application. Our rollout of the Ion

58

Table of Contents
system is progressing well, and we are continuing to gather additional clinical evidence. We plan to seek additional clearances for the Ion system in OUS markets over time.
The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction.
Macroeconomic Environment
Uncertainty surrounding macroeconomic factors in the U.S. and globally characterized by the supply chain environment, inflationary pressure, rising interest rates, labor shortages, and significant disruption in the commodities’ markets as a result of the Russia and Ukraine conflict may result in a recession, which could have a material adverse effect on our long-term business.
We have experienced increased difficulties in obtaining a sufficient supply of a number of component materials used in our products, such as semiconductor components as well as a range of other materials, including, but not limited to, metals and polymers, as global supply has become significantly constrained due to increased demand for certain materials. Additionally, prices of such materials have increased due to the increased demand and supply shortage. With rising interest rates, access to credit may become more difficult, and any insolvency of key suppliers, including sole-source and single-source suppliers, may exacerbate current supply chain challenges. We are engaged in activities to seek to mitigate supply disruptions, but the global supply chain shortages will remain a challenge for the foreseeable future.
Such global shortages in important components as well as certain logistics challenges have resulted in, and will continue to cause, inflationary cost pressure in our supply chain. To date, these supply chain challenges have not materially impacted our results of operations or ability to deliver products and services to our customers. However, if shortages in important supply chain materials in the semiconductor or other markets or logistics challenges continue, we could fail to meet product demand, which could result in deferred or canceled procedures. If inflationary pressures in logistics or component costs persist, we may not be able to adjust pricing, reduce costs, or implement countermeasures. Additionally, there is uncertainty surrounding the impact of any monetary policy changes taken by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks to address the structural risks associated with inflation.
Fluctuations in labor availability globally, including labor shortages and staff burnout and attrition, could also impact our ability to hire and retain personnel critical to our manufacturing, logistics, and commercial operations. We are also highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of critical members of our team, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could significantly harm our operations, business, and ability to compete.
The current macroeconomic environment is impacting our customers financially and operationally as well. Hospitals are experiencing staffing shortages and supply chain issues that could affect their ability to provide patient care. Additionally, hospitals are facing significant financial pressure as supply chain constraints and inflation drive up operating costs, rising interest rates make access to credit more expensive, unrealized losses decrease available cash reserves, and fiscal stimulus programs enacted during the COVID-19 pandemic wind down. As a consequence of the financial pressures and decreased profitability, some hospitals have indicated that they are lowering their capital investment plans and tightening their operational budgets. We believe that these factors have contributed to a softening in our U.S. capital pipeline, and we expect that demand for capital, particularly in the U.S., will continue to be impacted while macroeconomic conditions remain challenging. In addition, as competition progresses in various markets, we will likely experience longer selling cycles and pricing pressures. Any or all of these factors could negatively impact the number of da Vinci procedures performed or the number of system placements and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations resulting in failure to achieve our anticipated financial results.
COVID-19 Pandemic
Procedures
In 2020, as a result of the outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19), we saw a substantial reduction in da Vinci procedures. The initial decline in procedures in the first quarter of 2020 was significant, most notably in China and then later in Western Europe and the U.S. as the pandemic spread. The second quarter of 2020 saw a further significant decline in procedures, followed by a period of recovery and new resurgences. In the U.S., procedures initially continued to decline, before starting a recovery as COVID-19 cases dropped and elective procedures were permitted. In China, procedure volumes recovered strongly, while the impact on procedure volumes of other countries varied. The third and fourth quarters of 2020 were characterized by the continued recovery of procedure volumes in the U.S. and China, while the procedure volumes of other countries, such as Japan, continued to vary depending on the spread and/or resurgence of COVID-19.
In 2021, COVID-19 resurgences affected da Vinci procedure volumes at various times throughout the year in most of the markets that we operate in. After each resurgence, as COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations subsided, we saw procedure

59

Table of Contents
volumes recover. In the U.S., the impact of high COVID-related hospitalization rates on procedure volumes was exacerbated by staffing shortages. Although hospitals were better equipped to handle COVID patients as compared to the outset of the pandemic, COVID-19 resurgences challenged hospital resources and negatively impacted da Vinci procedure volumes. In addition, delays in diagnosis and treatment of underlying conditions had a negative impact on da Vinci procedure volumes. Volumes associated with benign procedures were generally impacted to a higher degree when COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations increased, reflecting the deferability of certain elective surgeries.
In early 2022, a resurgence of COVID-19 resulted in a significant increase in infections and hospitalization rates in the U.S. and certain countries in Europe, which, in turn, negatively impacted procedure volumes in January and February. As infections and hospitalizations started to decrease in February in the U.S. and Europe, we saw a recovery of procedure volumes. In March and during the second quarter of 2022, we also saw a resurgence in COVID-19 cases and increased hospitalizations and government interventions impacting parts of Asia, particularly China, which negatively impacted procedure volumes. During the third quarter of 2022, we did not experience significant disruptions from COVID-19. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we saw a resurgence in COVID-19 cases in China, which had a significant negative impact on our procedure volumes in the region.
The depth and extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact individual markets will vary based on the availability of vaccinations, personal protective equipment, intensive care units and operating rooms, and medical staff, as well as government interventions. The impact of COVID-19 on our procedure volumes varies widely by country, region, and type. When COVID-19 infection rates spike in a particular region, procedure volumes have been negatively impacted and the diagnoses of new conditions and their related treatments have been deferred. While there is a backlog of patients, it is unpredictable when those patients will ultimately seek diagnosis and treatment and whether they will be treated through surgery. Based on our experience during the last three years, we do not expect all markets, regions, and procedure types to recover at the same time or at the same pace.
System Demand
As the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic progressed throughout 2020, customers in affected regions deferred decisions to purchase or lease systems into future quarters and, in some cases, indefinitely. In addition, the year-over-year stagnation in procedures during 2020 and, in turn, reduced utilization of our systems had resulted in unused capacity in the existing installed base. On the other hand, throughout 2021, we experienced strong system demand, as utilization levels recovered. In general, we believe that the COVID-19 pandemic had less of an impact on hospital spending capacity and that customers recognize that surgery meets their quadruple aim objectives better than other surgical approaches. This system demand continued during 2022; however, in 2022, our system demand was also impacted by macroeconomic challenges impacting our customers, primarily in the U.S. Refer to the factors outlined in the Macroeconomic Environment section above.
Customer Relief Program
In April 2020, we announced a program to provide financial relief to our customers. The program consisted of three main elements. The first element provided credits against service fees otherwise due in the six-month period from April 1 through September 30, 2020, which generally reflected the underutilization of the system during that period. Those credits were offered to most customers worldwide. The second element of the program deferred certain lease payments, and the third element extended certain payment terms. Service fee credits resulted in an $80 million decrease in service revenue in 2020. While the short-term payment relief offered did not have a material impact on the results of operations, we deferred $15 million of lease billings and extended payment terms associated with $181 million of trade receivables during the program, of which $19 million remained outstanding as of December 31, 2020. All of the trade receivables with extended payment terms were collected as of December 31, 2021. We may be subject to increased credit risks resulting in collection delinquencies and defaults, which could materially impact our bad debt write-offs and provisions for credit losses. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements and extended payment terms. There was no similar customer relief program offered in 2021 or 2022.
General Increase in Risks
The COVID-19 pandemic and local actions, such as “shelter-in-place” orders and restrictions on our ability to travel and access our customers or temporary closures of our facilities, including our training and manufacturing operations, or the facilities of our suppliers and their contract manufacturers, could further significantly impact our sales and our ability to produce and ship our products and supply our customers.
In addition, COVID-19 has contributed to the staffing shortages experienced by hospitals, which impacts hospitals’ ability to provide patient care and, in some cases, results in the deferral of elective surgeries.

60

Table of Contents
Our Response
Our priorities and actions during the COVID-19 pandemic have been and remain as follows. First, we are focused on the health and safety of all those we serve—patients, customers, our communities, and our employees—implementing continuous updates to our health and safety policies and processes. Second, we are supporting our customers according to their priorities—clinical, operational, and economic—and ensuring continuity of supply by working with our suppliers and our distributors. Third, we are securing our workforce economically. We have built a valuable team over the years, and we believe they will be important in a recovery that follows the pandemic. Finally, we will continue to invest in our priority development programs while eliminating avoidable spend.
As COVID-19 vaccination rates increase and the severity of cases declines, we are implementing our return-to-office strategy. We collected internal and external insights to inform decision-making on work models that would align with how employees will work in the current environment, which has evolved as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These efforts will allow for an improved employee experience, regardless of whether an employee is working from home, fully on-site, or in a hybrid fashion. Our top priority in this process continues to be the health and safety of our employees.

Business Model
Overview
We generate revenue from the placement of da Vinci Surgical Systems, in sales or sales-type lease arrangements where revenue is recognized up-front or in operating lease and usage-based arrangements where revenue is recognized over time. We earn recurring revenue from the sales of instruments, accessories, and services, as well as the revenue from operating leases. The da Vinci Surgical System generally sells for between $0.5 million and $2.5 million, depending upon the model, configuration, and geography, and represents a significant capital equipment investment for our customers when purchased. Our instruments and accessories have limited lives and will either expire or wear out as they are used in surgery, at which point they need to be replaced. We generally earn between $600 and $3,500 of instruments and accessories revenue per surgical procedure performed, depending on the type and complexity of the specific procedures performed and the number and type of instruments used. In late 2020, we launched our Extended Use Program (refer to further discussion in the section below) in the U.S. and Europe, with the intention to reduce the cost for customers to treat patients, which in turn will reduce our overall instruments and accessories revenue per procedure. We typically enter into service contracts at the time systems are sold or leased at an annual fee between $80,000 and $190,000, depending upon the configuration of the underlying system and the composition of the services offered under the contract. These service contracts have generally been renewed at the end of the initial contractual service periods.
We generate revenue from our Ion endoluminal system in a business model consistent with the da Vinci Surgical System model described above. We generate revenue from the placement of Ion systems, in sales or sales-type lease arrangements where revenue is recognized up-front or in operating lease and usage-based arrangements where revenue is recognized over time. We earn recurring revenue from the sales of instruments, accessories, and services, as well as revenue from operating leases. The average selling price of an Ion system is generally significantly lower than the average selling price of a da Vinci Surgical System. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, Ion’s contribution to revenue and gross margin was not significant.
Additionally, as part of our ecosystem of products and services, we provide a portfolio of learning offerings and digital solutions. We do not currently generate material revenue from these offerings.
Extended Use Program
In 2020, we introduced our Extended Use Program in the U.S. and Europe, which consists of select da Vinci Xi and da Vinci X instruments possessing 12 to 18 uses compared to the previously 10 uses. These Extended Use Instruments represent some of our higher volume instruments but exclude stapling, monopolar, and advanced energy instruments. Instruments included in the program are used across a number of da Vinci surgeries. Their increased uses are the result of continuous, significant investments in the design and production capabilities of our instruments, resulting in improved quality and durability. Extended Use Instruments were then launched in most other countries around the world in the first half of 2021, except China due to regulatory timelines. In addition, simultaneous with the regional launches of Extended Use Instruments, we have lowered the price of certain instruments that are most commonly used in lower acuity procedures and/or lower reimbursed procedures within the region. These actions have reduced the cost for customers to treat patients, which in turn has reduced our revenue per procedure. In the U.S. and Europe, during 2021, we saw customers adjust their instrument buying patterns to reduce their inventory levels to reflect the additional uses per instrument. We believe that, as of the end of 2021, in the U.S. and Europe, full cutover to Extended Use Instruments has occurred, as customers have substantially utilized all of their remaining 10 use instruments. The precise impact of these actions on future revenue will be dependent on the future volume and mix of procedures and whether cost elasticity will enable greater penetration into available markets.

61

Table of Contents
Recurring Revenue
Recurring revenue consists of instruments and accessories revenue, service revenue, and operating lease revenue. Recurring revenue increased to $4.9 billion, or 79% of total revenue in 2022, compared to $4.3 billion, or 75% of total revenue in 2021, and $3.4 billion, or 77% of total revenue in 2020.
Instruments and accessories revenue has grown at a faster rate than systems revenue over time. Instruments and accessories revenue increased to $3.52 billion in 2022, compared to $3.10 billion in 2021 and $2.46 billion in 2020. The increase in instruments and accessories revenue largely reflects continued procedure adoption.
Service revenue was $1.02 billion in 2022, compared to $0.92 billion in 2021 and $0.72 billion in 2020. The increase in service revenue was primarily driven by the growth of the base of installed da Vinci Surgical Systems producing service revenue, as well as the effects of the Customer Relief Program in 2020, which resulted in an $80 million decrease in service revenue. The installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems grew 12% to approximately 7,544 as of December 31, 2022; 12% to approximately 6,730 as of December 31, 2021; and 7% to approximately 5,989 as of December 31, 2020.
We use the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems as metrics for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Management believes that the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance, as management believes that the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems are an indicator of the rate of adoption of robotic-assisted surgery or bronchoscopy as well as an indicator of future recurring revenue. Management believes that both it and investors benefit from referring to the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. The installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems also facilitate management’s internal comparisons of our historical performance. We believe that the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems are useful to investors as metrics because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making, and (2) they are used by institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the performance of our business. The vast majority of installed systems are connected via the internet. System logs can also be accessed by field engineers for systems that are not connected to the internet. We utilize this information as well as other information from agreements and discussions with our customers that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial uncertainties and assumptions. Estimates and judgments for determining the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems may be impacted over time by various factors, including system internet connectivity, hospital and distributor reporting behavior, and inherent complexities in new agreements. Such estimates and judgments are also susceptible to technical errors. In addition, the relationship between the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems and our revenues may fluctuate from period to period, and growth in the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems may not correspond to an increase in revenue. The installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, revenue or other financial information prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
Intuitive System Leasing
Since 2013, we have entered into sales-type and operating lease arrangements directly with certain qualified customers as a way to offer customers flexibility in how they acquire systems and expand their robotic-assisted programs while leveraging our balance sheet. These leases generally have commercially competitive terms as compared to other third-party entities that offer equipment leasing. We have also entered into usage-based arrangements with qualified customers that have committed da Vinci programs where we charge for the system and service as the systems are utilized. We believe that these alternative financing structures have been effective and well-received, and we are willing to expand the proportion of these structures based on customer demand. We include operating and sales-type leases, and systems placed under usage-based arrangements, in our system placement and installed base disclosures. We exclude operating lease-related revenue, usage-based revenue, and Ion system revenue from our da Vinci Surgical System average selling price (“ASP”) computations.
In the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we placed 591, 668, and 432 da Vinci Surgical Systems, respectively, under lease and usage-based arrangements, of which 492, 517, and 317 systems, respectively, were operating lease and usage-based arrangements. In the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we placed 112, 57, and 9 Ion systems, respectively, under lease and usage-based arrangements, of which 101, 50, and 9 systems, respectively, were operating lease and usage-based arrangements.
Revenue from operating lease arrangements is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term or, in the case of usage-based arrangements, as the systems are used. We generally set operating lease and usage-based pricing at a modest premium relative to purchased systems reflecting the time value of money and, in the case of usage-based arrangements, the risk that system utilization may fall short of anticipated levels. Variable lease revenue recognized from usage-based arrangements has been included in our operating lease metrics herein. Operating lease revenue has grown at a faster rate than overall systems revenue and was $377 million, $277 million, and $177 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021,

62

Table of Contents
and 2020, respectively, of which $133 million, $78 million, and $28 million, respectively, was variable lease revenue. As revenue for operating leases and usage-based systems is recognized over time, total systems revenue growth is reduced in a period when the number of operating lease and usage-based placements increases as a proportion of total system placements. Generally, lease transactions generate similar gross margins as our sale transactions. A total of 1,683, 1,294, and 901 da Vinci Surgical Systems were installed at customers under operating lease or usage-based arrangements as of December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. A total of 132, 61, and 11 Ion systems were installed at customers under operating lease or usage-based arrangements as of December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.
Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. As a result of these macroeconomic factors impacting our customers, we may be exposed to defaults under our lease financing arrangements. Moreover, usage-based arrangements generally contain no minimum payments; therefore, customers may exit such arrangements without paying a financial penalty to us.
For some operating lease arrangements, our customers are provided with the right to purchase the leased system at certain points during and/or at the end of the lease term. Revenue generated from customer purchases of systems under operating lease arrangements (“Lease Buyouts”) was $72 million, $96 million, and $52 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. We expect that revenue recognized from customer exercises of the buyout options will fluctuate based on the timing of when, and if, customers choose to exercise their buyout options.
Systems Revenue
System placements are driven by procedure growth in most markets. In some markets, system placements are constrained by regulation. In geographies where da Vinci procedure adoption is in an early stage or system placements are constrained by regulation, system sales will precede procedure growth. System placements also vary due to seasonality largely aligned with hospital budgeting cycles. We typically place a higher proportion of annual system placements in the fourth quarter and a lower proportion in the first quarter as customer budgets are reset. Systems revenue is also affected by the proportion of system placements under operating lease and usage-based arrangements, recurring operating lease and usage-based revenue, operating lease buyouts, product mix, ASPs, trade-in activities, and customer mix. Systems revenue declined 1% to $1.68 billion in 2022. Systems revenue grew 44% to $1.69 billion in 2021. Systems revenue declined 12% to $1.18 billion in 2020. Based on the factors outlined in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above, we believe that historical system placement trends may not be a good indicator of future system placements.
Procedure Mix / Products
Our da Vinci Surgical Systems are generally used for soft tissue surgery for areas of the body between the pelvis and the neck, primarily in general surgery, gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. Within these categories, procedures range in complexity from cancer and other highly complex procedures to less complex procedures for benign conditions. Cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures for benign conditions. Thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex, benign conditions. Our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economical solutions across the spectrum of procedure complexity. Our fully featured da Vinci Xi Surgical System with advanced instruments (including da Vinci Energy and EndoWrist and SureForm Stapler products) and our Integrated Table Motion product targets the more complex procedure segment. Our da Vinci X Surgical System is targeted toward price-sensitive markets and procedures. Our da Vinci SP Surgical System complements the da Vinci Xi and X Surgical Systems by enabling surgeons to access narrow workspaces.
Procedure Seasonality
More than half of da Vinci procedures performed are for benign conditions, most notably hernia repairs, hysterectomies, and cholecystectomies. These benign procedures and other short-term elective procedures tend to be more seasonal than cancer operations and surgeries for other life-threatening conditions. Seasonality in the U.S. for procedures for benign conditions typically results in higher fourth quarter procedure volume when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower first quarter procedure volume when deductibles are reset. Seasonality outside of the U.S. varies and is more pronounced around local holidays and vacation periods. As a result of the factors outlined in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above, including past and potentially future recommendations of authorities to defer elective procedures, historical procedure patterns may be disrupted.
Distribution Channels
We provide our products through direct sales organizations in the U.S., Europe (excluding Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, and most Eastern European countries), China (through our Intuitive-Fosun Pharma joint venture), Japan, South Korea, India, Taiwan and, as of June 2022, Canada. In the remainder of our OUS markets, we provide our products through distributors.

63

Table of Contents
Regulatory Activities
Overview
Our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards that govern the product safety, efficacy, advertising, labeling, safety reporting design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. Examples of such standards include electrical safety standards, such as those of the International Electrotechnical Commission, and composition standards, such as the Reduction of Hazardous Substances and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives. Failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions that require compliance with such standards.
Our products and operations are also subject to increasingly stringent medical device, privacy, and other regulations by regional, federal, state, and local authorities. After a device is placed on the market, numerous FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. These requirements include establishment registration and device listing with the FDA and compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device caused or contributed, or may have caused or contributed, to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur.
We recently revised our medical device reporting policies, which had been developed based on previous feedback from the FDA. These revisions have been made in consultation with the FDA to better align with existing regulations. There has been an increase in medical device reporting filings due to changes in our reportability criteria. In addition, we have been investing in resources and utilizing external experts to strengthen our quality system. These efforts are ongoing.
We also anticipate that timelines for the introduction of new products and/or indications may be extended relative to past experience as a result of these regulations. For example, we have seen elongated regulatory approval timelines in the U.S. and Europe.
Clearances, Approvals, and Certifications
We have generally obtained the regulatory clearances, approvals, and certifications required to market our products associated with our da Vinci Surgical Multiport Systems (Standard, S, Si, Xi, and X systems) for our targeted surgical specialties within the U.S., South Korea, Japan, and the European markets in which we operate. Since 2020, we have obtained regulatory clearances, approvals, and certifications for the following products:
•In September 2022, we obtained regulatory clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System in Japan for use in general surgeries, thoracic surgeries (excluding cardiac procedures and intercostal approaches), urologic surgeries, gynecological surgeries, and trans-oral head and neck surgeries. We obtained the initial FDA clearance for our da Vinci SP Surgical System in April 2014 and have since invested in important platform refinements. We also received regulatory clearance in South Korea for our da Vinci SP Surgical System in May 2018.
•In February 2022, we received regulatory clearance in China to market both our 12 mm SureForm 45 Stapler and SureForm 60 Stapler and corresponding reloads.
•In January 2022, we received regulatory clearance in China to market our da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend with up to 7 mm vascular indications.
•In December 2021, we obtained FDA clearance for our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler and reloads for use in general, thoracic, gynecologic, urologic, and pediatric surgery. The 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler is expected to launch in the U.S. in 2023, with other countries to follow. In October 2022, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip and Straight-Tip Stapler instruments and reloads for use in general, thoracic (except for cardiac), gynecologic, and urologic surgery.
•In late 2020 and early 2021, we obtained FDA clearance, European certification, and other regulatory clearances in most of our significant markets to market our Extended Use Instruments.
•In November 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our SynchroSeal instrument and E-100 generator. Following the FDA clearance, in February 2020, we obtained European certification for both products. In March 2020, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market both our SynchroSeal instrument and E-100 generator. We received regulatory clearance in South Korea to market our SynchroSeal instrument and E-100 generator in January 2020 and August 2020, respectively.
•In July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload, which round out our SureForm 45 portfolio. We have also obtained European certification for our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload. In September 2019, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market both our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload. We received regulatory clearance in South Korea to market our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload in June 2021 and July 2021, respectively.

64

Table of Contents
•In June 2019, we obtained European certification for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus for the da Vinci Xi and da Vinci X Surgical Systems in Europe. Following the European certification, in July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus. We have also received regulatory clearances in South Korea and Japan to market our da Vinci Endoscope Plus in December 2019 and May 2020, respectively. In March 2022, we received regulatory clearance in China to market our da Vinci Endoscope Plus.
•In June 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Handheld Camera and, in February 2020, we obtained European certification.
Refer to the descriptions of our new products that received regulatory clearances, approvals, or certifications in 2022, 2021, and 2020 in the Recent Product Introductions section below.
In October 2018, the China National Health Commission published on its official website the quota for major medical equipment to be sold in China through 2020. After an adjustment notice was published in the third quarter of 2020, the government will now allow for the total sale of 225 new surgical robots into China, which could include da Vinci Surgical Systems as well as surgical systems introduced by others. As of December 31, 2022, we have sold 187 da Vinci Surgical Systems under this quota, and we believe that four system quotas are no longer available; therefore, 34 surgical robots should still be available for sale under this quota. Future sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems under the quota are uncertain, as they are dependent on hospitals completing a tender process and receiving associated approvals. Additionally, any delays in the granting of a new quota in China will constrain our ability to further grow our installed base in China as well as limit our capacity for procedure growth in China.
During the third quarter of 2022, the Hunan Provincial Healthcare Security Administration implemented significant limits on what hospitals can charge patients for surgeries using robotic surgical technology, including soft tissue surgery and orthopedics. This rule has had a material negative impact on our procedures performed in the Hunan province. In addition to the Hunan province, the Hainan province (an island province of China) recently announced a policy to implement almost identical limits on what hospitals can charge patients for surgeries using robotic surgical technology. However, currently, only a small portion of our installed base in China is located in the Hunan and Hainan provinces. Companies providing robotic surgical technology, including our joint venture in China, are meeting with Chinese government healthcare agencies to discuss this development and provide feedback. We cannot assure you that other provincial healthcare administrations will not impose similar limits.
The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare considers reimbursement for procedures in April of even-numbered years. The process for obtaining reimbursement requires Japanese university hospitals and surgical societies, with our support, to seek reimbursement. There are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures, including those that require in-country clinical data/economic data. In April 2012 and April 2016, the MHLW granted reimbursement status for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy, respectively. Most prostatectomies and partial nephrectomies were open procedures prior to da Vinci reimbursement. Da Vinci procedure reimbursement for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy procedures are higher than open and conventional laparoscopic procedure reimbursements. An additional 12 da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement effective April 1, 2018, including gastrectomy, low anterior resection, lobectomy, and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions, and an additional seven da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement effective April 1, 2020. An additional eight da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement effective April 1, 2022, including colon resection. In addition, we received higher reimbursement for da Vinci gastrectomy procedures, as compared to open and conventional laparoscopic procedure reimbursements. The additional reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will generally be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. Given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these additional procedures, there can be no assurance that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to prostatectomy or partial nephrectomy, given their higher reimbursement, or any other da Vinci procedure.
Recalls and Corrections
Medical device companies have regulatory obligations to correct or remove medical devices in the field that could pose a risk to health. The definition of “recalls and corrections” is expansive and includes repair, replacement, inspections, relabeling, and issuance of new or additional instructions for use or reinforcement of existing instructions for use and training when such actions are taken for specific reasons of safety or compliance. These field actions require stringent documentation, reporting, and monitoring worldwide. There are other actions that a medical device manufacturer may take in the field without reporting including, but not limited to, routine servicing and stock rotations.
As we determine whether a field action is reportable in any regulatory jurisdiction, we prepare and submit notifications to the appropriate regulatory agency for the particular jurisdiction. Regulators can require the expansion, reclassification, or change in scope and language of the field action. In general, upon submitting required notifications to regulators regarding a field action that is a recall or correction, we will notify customers regarding the field action, provide any additional documentation required in their national language, and arrange, as required, the return or replacement of the affected product or a field service visit to perform the correction.

65

Table of Contents
Field actions, as well as certain outcomes from regulatory activities, can result in adverse effects on our business, including damage to our reputation, delays by customers of purchase decisions, reduction or stoppage of the use of installed systems, and reduced revenue as well as increased expenses.
Due to an internally-discovered defect in a component manufactured by a third party and used in certain da Vinci arms, we will be issuing a voluntary field action on or about February 10, 2023. As agreed with the FDA, the field action recommends that customers stop using approximately 109 da Vinci X and Xi systems until we can replace the affected arms, which we anticipate completing during February 2023. The affected part does not have patient contact, and there have been no adverse events reported related to this issue. We do not expect this field action to have a material impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

Procedures
We model patient value as equal to procedure efficacy / invasiveness. In this equation, procedure efficacy is defined as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease, and invasiveness is defined as a measure of patient pain and disruption of regular activities. When the patient value of a da Vinci procedure is greater than that of alternative treatment options, patients may benefit from seeking out surgeons and hospitals that offer da Vinci Surgery, which could potentially result in a local market share shift. Adoption of da Vinci procedures occurs procedure by procedure and market by market and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of da Vinci procedures as compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state or condition.
We use the number and type of procedures as metrics for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Management believes that the number and type of procedures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance, as management believes procedure volume is an indicator of the rate of adoption of robotic-assisted surgery or bronchoscopy as well as an indicator of future revenue (including revenue from usage-based arrangements). Management believes that both it and investors benefit from referring to the number and type of procedures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. The number and type of procedures also facilitate management’s internal comparisons of our historical performance. We believe that the number and type of procedures are useful to investors as metrics, because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making, and (2) they are used by institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the performance of our business. The vast majority of our installed systems are connected via the internet. System logs can also be accessed by field engineers for systems that are not connected to the internet. We utilize certain methods that rely on information collected from the installed systems for determining the number and type of procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial uncertainties and assumptions. Estimates and judgments for determining the number and type of procedures may be impacted over time by various factors, including changes in treatment modalities, hospital and distributor reporting behavior, and system internet connectivity. Such estimates and judgments are also susceptible to algorithmic or other technical errors. In addition, the relationship between the number and type of procedures and our revenues may fluctuate from period to period, and procedure volume growth may not correspond to an increase in revenue. The number and type of procedures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, revenue or other financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Worldwide Procedures
Our systems and instruments are regulated independently in various countries and regions of the world. The discussion of indications for use and representative or target procedures is intended solely to provide an understanding of the market for our products and is not intended to promote for sale or use any Intuitive product outside of its licensed or cleared labeling and indications for use.
The adoption of robotic-assisted surgery using the da Vinci Surgical System has the potential to grow for those procedures that offer greater patient value than to non-da Vinci alternatives and competitive total economics for healthcare providers. Our da Vinci Surgical Systems are used primarily in general surgery, urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. We focus our organization and investments on developing, marketing, and training products and services for procedures in which da Vinci can bring patient value relative to alternative treatment options and/or economic benefit to healthcare providers. Target procedures in general surgery include hernia repair (both ventral and inguinal), colorectal, cholecystectomy, and bariatric procedures. Target procedures in urology include prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy. Target procedures in gynecology include hysterectomy for both cancer and benign conditions and sacrocolpopexy. In cardiothoracic surgery, target procedures include lobectomy. In head and neck surgery, target procedures include transoral surgery. Not all indications, procedures, or products described may be available in a given country or region or on all generations of da Vinci Surgical Systems. Surgeons and their patients need to consult the product labeling in their specific country and for each product in order to determine the cleared uses, as well as important limitations, restrictions, or contraindications.

66

Table of Contents
Similarly, the adoption of robotic-assisted bronchoscopy using the Ion system has the potential to grow if it can offer greater patient value than non-Ion alternatives and competitive total economics for healthcare providers.
In 2022, approximately 1,875,000 surgical procedures were performed with da Vinci Surgical Systems, compared to approximately 1,594,000 and 1,243,000 surgical procedures performed with da Vinci Surgical Systems in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in our overall procedure volume in 2022 reflects the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2022 and 2021, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above, and was driven by growth in U.S. general surgery, OUS urology, and OUS general surgery (particularly cancer) procedures.
In 2022, approximately 23,500 biopsy procedures were performed with Ion systems, compared to approximately 7,400 and 1,700 biopsy procedures performed with Ion systems in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in our overall procedure volume in 2022 reflects a larger installed base of approximately 321 systems, an increase of 149% compared to the installed base of approximately 129 systems as of 2021. Currently, the vast majority of Ion biopsy procedures are performed in the U.S.
U.S. da Vinci Procedures
Overall U.S. procedure volume with da Vinci Surgical Systems grew to approximately 1,282,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 1,109,000 in 2021 and approximately 876,000 in 2020. General surgery was our largest and fastest growing U.S. specialty in 2022 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 720,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 588,000 in 2021 and approximately 434,000 in 2020. Gynecology was our second largest U.S. surgical specialty in 2022 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 341,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 316,000 in 2021 and approximately 267,000 in 2020. Urology was our third largest U.S. surgical specialty in 2022 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 162,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 153,000 in 2021 and approximately 134,000 in 2020.
OUS da Vinci Procedures
Overall OUS procedure volume with da Vinci Surgical Systems grew to approximately 593,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 485,000 in 2021 and approximately 367,000 in 2020. Urology was our largest OUS specialty in 2022 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 316,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 264,000 in 2021 and approximately 215,000 in 2020. General surgery was our second largest OUS specialty in 2022 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 133,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 101,000 in 2021 and approximately 68,000 in 2020. Gynecology procedures also contributed to OUS procedure growth.

Recent Business Events and Trends

Procedures
Overall. Total da Vinci procedures performed by our customers grew approximately 18% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to approximately 28% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The 2022 and 2021 procedure results (and comparative 2020 procedures results) reflected disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above, which significantly impacted our procedures in certain periods in geographies and markets where there was a resurgence of the virus. The 2022 procedure growth was largely attributable to growth in U.S. general surgery, OUS urology, and OUS general surgery (particularly cancer) procedures. Delays in both the diagnosis and treatments of diseases reflecting disruptions caused by COVID-19 have previously and may continue to impact the number of procedures performed by our customers.
U.S. Procedures. U.S. da Vinci procedures grew approximately 16% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to approximately 27% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The 2022 and 2021 procedure results (and comparative 2020 procedures results) reflected disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above, which significantly impacted our procedures. The 2022 U.S. procedure growth was largely attributable to growth in general surgery procedures, most notably hernia repair, cholecystectomy, and bariatric procedures. Growth in the more mature gynecologic and urologic procedure categories was more moderate.
U.S. General Surgery. General surgery procedures in the U.S. grew to approximately 720,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 588,000 in 2021 and approximately 434,000 in 2020. Inguinal and ventral hernia repairs, cholecystectomies, and bariatric procedures contributed the most incremental procedures in 2022 and 2021, while cholecystectomies and bariatric procedures contributed the most incremental procedures in 2020.
We believe that growth in hernia repair using da Vinci reflects improved clinical outcomes within certain patient populations, as well as potential cost benefits relative to certain alternative treatments. We believe that hernia repair procedures represent a significant opportunity with the potential to drive growth in future periods. However, given the differences in surgical complexity associated with the treatment of various hernia patient populations and varying surgeon opinions regarding optimal surgical technique, it is difficult to estimate the timing of and to what extent hernia repair procedure volume will grow in the future. We expect a large portion of hernia repairs will continue to be performed via different modalities of surgery.

67

Table of Contents
Given the already very high level of laparoscopic techniques used in cholecystectomy, it is unclear whether our growth is sustainable and to what extent da Vinci may be adopted.
Bariatric procedures have grown significantly over the last three years. These procedures have been an increased area of focus and may also have benefited from certain patients prioritizing weight loss, as obesity is a significant COVID-19 risk factor. In addition, our SureForm 60mm Stapler provides surgeons with a more optimized robotic tool set for bariatric procedures. However, the diagnoses and treatment pathways for bariatric patients are long, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to see significant growth in bariatric procedures in future periods.
Adoption of da Vinci for colorectal procedures, which includes several underlying procedures, including low anterior resections for rectal cancers and certain colon procedures for benign and cancerous conditions, has been ongoing for several years and is supported by certain technologies, such as the EndoWrist and SureForm Staplers, energy devices, and Integrated Table Motion.
OUS Procedures. OUS da Vinci procedures grew approximately 22% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to approximately 32% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The 2022 and 2021 procedure results (and comparative 2020 procedures results) reflected disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above, which significantly impacted our procedures. The 2022 OUS procedure growth was driven by continued growth in urologic procedures, including prostatectomies and partial nephrectomies, and earlier stage growth in general surgery (particularly colorectal), gynecologic, and thoracic procedures. The 2022 OUS procedure growth rate reflects continued da Vinci adoption in European and Asian markets. We saw strong procedure growth in Japan, Germany, and the UK during 2022. Procedure growth in China was negatively impacted by COVID-19 restrictions in effect during 2022, particularly during Q2, and the subsequent effect of lifting those restrictions in Q4, which resulted in a surge of COVID-19 cases. We believe that growth in these global markets is being driven by increased acceptance among surgeons and health systems, supported by expanded global evidence validating the clinical and economic value of da Vinci procedures as well as increased surgeon training.
OUS Urology. Along with general surgery, OUS urology procedures have been a strong contributor to our overall procedure growth. OUS urology procedures grew to approximately 316,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 264,000 in 2021 and approximately 215,000 in 2020. In the U.S., da Vinci is the standard of care for the surgical treatment of prostate cancer, and we believe that the growth is largely aligned with surgical volumes of prostate cancer. For OUS, prostatectomy is at varying states of adoption in different areas of the world but is the largest overall da Vinci procedure. In 2022, we saw more moderate growth in OUS prostatectomy procedures compared to higher growth in 2021, as we are further up the adoption curve.
Kidney cancer procedures have also been a strong contributor to our recent global urology procedure growth. Clinical publications have demonstrated that the use of a da Vinci system increases the likelihood that a patient will receive nephron sparing surgery through a partial nephrectomy, which is typically the surgical society guideline recommended therapy.
OUS General Surgery. OUS general surgery procedures grew to approximately 133,000 in 2022, compared to approximately 101,000 in 2021 and approximately 68,000 in 2020. Colorectal procedures contributed the most incremental procedures in 2022, 2021, and 2020, aided by improved clinical outcomes relative to open and laparoscopic techniques within certain patient populations, along with enabling technologies, such as EndoWrist and SureForm staplers, energy devices, and Integrated Table Motion.

System Demand
We placed 1,264 da Vinci Surgical Systems in 2022, compared to 1,347 systems in 2021. The decrease in systems placed reflects a smaller number of third generation da Vinci systems available for trade-in along with the macroeconomic challenges impacting our customers, primarily in the U.S. As a consequence of the macroeconomic challenges, some hospitals have indicated that they are lowering their capital investment plans and tightening operational budgets. We expect that demand for capital will be impacted while macroeconomic conditions remain challenging.
2022 da Vinci placements declined 6% compared with 2021, and we expect that future placements of da Vinci Surgical Systems will be impacted by a number of factors: supply chain risks; economic and geopolitical factors; inflationary pressures; rising interest rates; hospital staffing shortages; the impact of the current COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above; hospital response to the evolving healthcare environment; procedure growth rates; hospital consolidation trends; evolving system utilization and point of care dynamics; capital replacement trends, including a declining number of older generation systems available for trade-in transactions; additional reimbursements in various global markets, including Japan; the timing around governmental tenders and authorizations, including China; the timing of when we receive regulatory clearance in our other OUS markets for our da Vinci Xi Surgical System, da Vinci X Surgical System, and da Vinci SP Surgical System, and related instruments; and market response. Market acceptance of our da Vinci SP Surgical System and the nature and timing of additional da Vinci SP regulatory indications may also impact future system placements.

68

Table of Contents
Demand may also be impacted by competition, including from companies that have introduced products in the field of robotic-assisted medical procedures or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field including, but not limited to, the following companies: Asensus Surgical, Inc.; avateramedical GmbH; CMR Surgical Ltd.; Johnson & Johnson; Medicaroid Corporation; Medrobotics Corporation; Medtronic plc; meerecompany Inc.; Olympus Corporation; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Company Ltd.; Shanghai Microport Medbot (Group) Co., Ltd.; and Titan Medical Inc.
Many of the above factors will also impact future demand for our Ion system, as we extend our commercial offering into diagnostics, along with additional factors associated with a new product introduction, including, but not limited to, our ability to optimize manufacturing and our supply chain, competition, clinical data to demonstrate value, and market acceptance.

Recent Product Introductions
SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler and Reloads. In December 2021, we obtained FDA clearance for our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler and reloads (gray, white, and blue) for use in general, thoracic, gynecologic, urologic, and pediatric surgery. We designed this instrument to help surgeons better visualize and reach anatomy through a combination of the 8 mm diameter instrument shaft and jaws, 120-degree cone of wristed articulation, and the curved tip. As it fits through the 8 mm da Vinci surgical system instrument cannula, the stapler allows different angles for surgeons to approach patient anatomy. Consistent with our other SureForm staplers, the 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler integrates SmartFire technology, which makes automatic adjustments to the firing process as staples are formed and the transection is made. The technology makes more than 1,000 measurements per second, helping achieve a consistent staple line. We completed initial evaluations of the 8 mm SureForm 30 stapler with certain customers in the U.S. in 2022. The full U.S. product launch will occur in late 2023, with other countries to follow. In October 2022, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip and Straight-Tip Stapler instruments and reloads for use in general, thoracic (except for cardiac), gynecologic, and urologic surgery.
SynchroSeal and E-100 Generator. In November 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our SynchroSeal instrument and E-100 generator. Following the FDA clearance, in February 2020, we received European certification for both products. In March 2020, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market both our SynchroSeal instrument and E-100 generator. In August 2020, we received regulatory clearance in South Korea to market our E-100 generator. SynchroSeal is a single-use, bipolar, electrosurgical instrument intended for grasping, dissection, sealing, and transection of tissue. With its wristed articulation, rapid sealing cycle, and refined curved jaw, SynchroSeal offers enhanced versatility to the da Vinci Energy portfolio. The E-100 generator is an electrosurgical generator developed to power two key instruments–Vessel Sealer Extend and SynchroSeal–on the da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi Surgical Systems. The generator delivers high frequency energy for cutting, coagulation, and vessel sealing of tissues.
SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and Gray Reload. In July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for the SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload. We have also obtained European certification for our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload. In September 2019, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market both our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload. We received regulatory clearance in South Korea to market our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload in June 2021 and July 2021, respectively. SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler is a single-use, fully wristed stapling instrument with a curved tip intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses. SureForm 45 Gray reload is a new, single-use cartridge that contains multiple staggered rows of implantable staples and a stainless steel knife. The SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and Gray reload have particular utility in thoracic procedures and round out our SureForm 45 portfolio. Not all reloads or staplers are available for use on all systems or in all countries.
Da Vinci Endoscope Plus. In June 2019, we obtained European certification for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus, an enhanced 3D endoscope for use with our da Vinci X and Xi Surgical Systems. Following the European certification, in July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus. We have also received regulatory clearances in South Korea and Japan to market our da Vinci Endoscope Plus in December 2019 and May 2020, respectively. In March 2022, we received regulatory clearance in China to market our da Vinci Endoscope Plus. The da Vinci Endoscope Plus leverages new sensor technology to allow for increased sharpness and color accuracy.
Da Vinci Handheld Camera. In June 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Handheld Camera, a lightweight, 2D camera head, which can be connected to third-party laparoscopes. This allows the laparoscopic image to be displayed on the da Vinci X/Xi vision cart to address aspects of da Vinci procedures that may require the use of a laparoscope, thus eliminating the need for redundant equipment in the operating room and increasing procedure efficiency. In February 2020, we obtained European certification for our da Vinci Handheld Camera. We broadly launched the da Vinci Handheld Camera in our European direct markets and in the U.S. in May 2020 and June 2020, respectively.

69

Table of Contents
Acquisition of Orpheus Medical
In February 2020, we acquired Orpheus Medical Ltd. and its wholly owned subsidiaries to deepen and expand our integrated informatics platform. Orpheus Medical provides hospitals with information technology connectivity, as well as expertise in processing and archiving surgical videos. Orpheus Medical is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intuitive.

Intuitive Ventures
In 2020, we launched Intuitive Ventures, an inaugural $100 million fund focused on investment opportunities in companies that share Intuitive’s commitment to advancing positive outcomes in healthcare. As of December 31, 2022, we have invested $33 million of the $100 million.

2022 Operational and Financial Highlights
•Total revenue increased by 9% to $6.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $5.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.
•Approximately 1,875,000 da Vinci procedures were performed during the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of 18% compared to approximately 1,594,000 da Vinci procedures for the year ended December 31, 2021.
•Approximately 23,500 Ion procedures were performed during the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of 218% compared to approximately 7,400 Ion procedures for the year ended December 31, 2021.
•Instruments and accessories revenue increased by 13% to $3.52 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $3.10 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.
•Systems revenue decreased by 1% to $1.68 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $1.69 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.
•1,264 da Vinci Surgical Systems were placed during the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of 6% compared to 1,347 systems during the year ended December 31, 2021.
•As of December 31, 2022, we had a da Vinci Surgical System installed base of approximately 7,544 systems, an increase of 12% compared to the installed base of approximately 6,730 systems as of December 31, 2021.
•Utilization of da Vinci Surgical Systems, measured in terms of procedures per system per year, increased 4% relative to 2021.
•192 Ion systems were placed during the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of 106% compared to 93 systems during the year ended December 31, 2021.
•As of December 31, 2022, we had an Ion system installed base of approximately 321 systems, an increase of 149% compared to the installed base of approximately 129 systems as of December 31, 2021.
•Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 67.4% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 69.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021.
•Operating income decreased by 13% to $1.58 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $1.82 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Operating income included $517 million and $457 million of share-based compensation expense related to employee stock plans and $45.4 million and $37.0 million of intangible asset-related charges for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively.
•As of December 31, 2022, we had $6.74 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Cash, cash equivalents, and investments decreased by $1.88 billion, compared to $8.62 billion as of December 31, 2021, primarily as a result of cash used for share repurchases of $2.61 billion, capital expenditures, and taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards, as well as unrealized losses on interest-bearing debt securities classified as available for sale, partially offset by cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from stock options exercises and employee stock purchases.

70

Table of Contents
Results of Operations
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. This section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this report on Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.
The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, certain Consolidated Statements of Income information (in millions, except percentages):

------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------- ------------------ --- ---- - ------------------ - ------- --- ------------------ -- ------- - ------- - -- -
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 % of total Revenue 2021 % of total Revenue 2020 % of total Revenue
Revenue:
Product $ 5,198.0 84 % $ 4,793.9 84 % $ 3,634.6 83 %
Service 1,024.2 16 % 916.2 16 % 723.8 17 %
Total revenue 6,222.2 100 % 5,710.1 100 % 4,358.4 100 %
Cost of revenue:
Product 1,700.3 28 % 1,464.1 26 % 1,230.3 28 %
Service 325.9 5 % 287.5 5 % 266.9 6 %
Total cost of revenue 2,026.2 33 % 1,751.6 31 % 1,497.2 34 %
Product gross profit 3,497.7 56 % 3,329.8 58 % 2,404.3 55 %
Service gross profit 698.3 11 % 628.7 11 % 456.9 11 %
Gross profit 4,196.0 67 % 3,958.5 69 % 2,861.2 66 %
Operating expenses:
Selling, general and administrative 1,739.9 28 % 1,466.5 25 % 1,216.3 28 %
Research and development 879.0 14 % 671.0 12 % 595.1 14 %
Total operating expenses 2,618.9 42 % 2,137.5 37 % 1,811.4 42 %
Income from operations 1,577.1 25 % 1,821.0 32 % 1,049.8 24 %
Interest and other income, net 29.7 1 % 69.3 1 % 157.2 4 %
Income before taxes 1,606.8 26 % 1,890.3 33 % 1,207.0 28 %
Income tax expense 262.4 4 % 162.2 3 % 140.2 3 %
Net income 1,344.4 22 % 1,728.1 30 % 1,066.8 24 %
Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in joint venture 22.1 1 % 23.5 — % 6.2 — %
Net income attributable to Intuitive Surgical, Inc. $ 1,322.3 21 % $ 1,704.6 30 % $ 1,060.6 24 %

Total Revenue
Total revenue increased by 9% to $6.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $5.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, increased by 31% compared to $4.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022, resulted from 13% higher instruments and accessories revenue, driven by approximately 18% higher da Vinci procedure volume, partially offset by foreign currency impacts and customer buying patterns, and 12% higher service revenue, partially offset by 1% lower systems revenue, driven by 6% lower da Vinci system placements, partially offset by higher operating lease revenue. In conjunction with our 2020 COVID-19 Customer Relief Program implemented in the second quarter of 2020, service revenue in 2020 was reduced by $80 million as a result of service fee credits provided to customers.
Revenue denominated in foreign currencies as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 24%, 23%, and 23% for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. We generally sell our products and services in local currencies where we have direct distribution channels. Foreign currency rate fluctuations, as determined by comparing current period revenue in USD to current period revenue in local currency using the same foreign exchange rates as the prior year same period, net of the impacts from foreign currency hedging, had an unfavorable impact on OUS total revenue of $138 million for the year

71

Table of Contents
ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. Foreign currency rate fluctuations, net of the impacts from foreign currency hedging, had a favorable impact on OUS total revenue of $35 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to 2020.
Revenue generated in the U.S. accounted for 67%, 67%, and 68% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. We believe that U.S. revenue has accounted for the large majority of total revenue due to U.S. patients’ ability to choose their provider and method of treatment, reimbursement structures supportive of innovation and MIS, and our initial investments focused on U.S. infrastructure. We have been investing in our business in OUS markets, and our OUS procedures have grown faster in proportion to U.S. procedures. We expect that our OUS procedures and revenue will make up a greater portion of our business in the long term.
The following table summarizes our revenue and system unit placements for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively (in millions, except percentages and unit placements):

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------- ---- ------- ---- ------- ------- - -------
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020
Revenue
Instruments and accessories $ 3,517.9 $ 3,100.5 $ 2,455.7
Systems 1,680.1 1,693.4 1,178.9
Total product revenue 5,198.0 4,793.9 3,634.6
Services 1,024.2 916.2 723.8
Total revenue $ 6,222.2 $ 5,710.1 $ 4,358.4
U.S. $ 4,157.6 $ 3,853.2 $ 2,962.7
OUS 2,064.6 1,856.9 1,395.7
Total revenue $ 6,222.2 $ 5,710.1 $ 4,358.4
% of Revenue — U.S. 67% 67% 68%
% of Revenue — OUS 33% 33% 32%

Instruments and accessories $ 3,517.9 $ 3,100.5 $ 2,455.7
Services 1,024.2 916.2 723.8
Operating lease revenue 376.5 276.9 176.7
Total recurring revenue $ 4,918.6 $ 4,293.6 $ 3,356.2
% of Total revenue 79% 75% 77%

Da Vinci Surgical System Placements by Region
U.S. unit placements 692 865 600
OUS unit placements 572 482 336
Total unit placements* 1,264 1,347 936
*Systems placed under operating leases (included in total unit placements) 492 517 317

Da Vinci Surgical System Placements involving System Trade-ins
Unit placements involving trade-ins 345 510 447
Unit placements not involving trade-ins 919 837 489

Ion System Placements** 192 93 26
**Systems placed under operating leases (included in total unit placements) 101 50 9

Product Revenue
Product revenue increased by 8% to $5.20 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $4.79 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, increased by 32% compared to $3.63 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020.

72

Table of Contents
Instruments and accessories revenue increased by 13% to $3.52 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $3.10 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in instruments and accessories revenue was primarily driven by da Vinci procedure growth of approximately 18% and incremental sales of our advanced instruments. The increase was partially offset by foreign currency impacts, customer buying patterns, and hospitals normalizing their purchasing of new Extended Use Instruments as a result of the recent launch of our Extended Use Program. The 2022 U.S. da Vinci procedure growth was approximately 16%, driven by strong growth in general surgery procedures, most notably hernia repair, cholecystectomy, and bariatric procedures, as well as moderate growth in the more mature gynecologic and urologic procedure categories. The 2022 OUS da Vinci procedure growth was approximately 22%, driven by continued growth in urologic procedures, including prostatectomies and partial nephrectomies, and earlier stage growth in general surgery (particularly colorectal), gynecologic, and thoracic procedures. Both growth rates were impacted by the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above. Geographically, the 2022 OUS da Vinci procedure growth was driven by procedure expansion in a number of markets with particular strength in Japan, Germany, and the UK. We also saw procedure growth in China, despite the procedure growth rate being lower than the prior year as a result of an increase in COVID-19 cases, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2022.
Systems revenue decreased by 1% to $1.68 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $1.69 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease in systems revenue was primarily driven by lower sales-type lease revenue, fewer da Vinci system placements, lower 2022 da Vinci ASPs, lower lease buyout revenue, and a higher proportion of da Vinci system placements under operating leases, partially offset by higher operating lease revenue and more Ion system placements.
During 2022, 1,264 da Vinci Surgical Systems were placed compared to 1,347 systems during 2021. By geography, 692 systems were placed in the U.S., 280 in Europe, 244 in Asia, and 48 in other markets during 2022, compared to 865 systems placed in the U.S., 232 in Europe, 203 in Asia, and 47 in other markets during 2021. The decrease in system placements was primarily driven by a smaller number of third generation da Vinci systems available for trade-in along with the macroeconomic challenges impacting our customers, primarily in the U.S. Nevertheless, the incremental system placements reflect continued procedure growth and further customer validation that robotic-assisted surgery addresses their quadruple aim objectives. As of December 31, 2022, we had a da Vinci Surgical System installed base of approximately 7,544 systems, compared to an installed base of approximately 6,730 systems as of December 31, 2021.
We placed 591 and 668 da Vinci Surgical Systems under lease or usage-based arrangements, of which 492 and 517 systems were classified as operating leases for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Operating lease revenue, including the contribution from Ion systems, was $377 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $277 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Da Vinci Surgical Systems placed as operating leases represented 39% of total placements during 2022, compared to 38% during 2021. 1,683 da Vinci Surgical Systems were installed at customers under operating lease or usage-based arrangements as of December 31, 2022, compared to 1,294 systems as of December 31, 2021. Revenue from Lease Buyouts was $72 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $96 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. We expect revenue from Lease Buyouts to fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing of when, and if, customers choose to exercise the buyout options embedded in their leases.
The da Vinci Surgical System ASP, excluding systems placed under operating lease or usage-based arrangements and Ion systems, was approximately $1.49 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to approximately $1.55 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The lower 2022 ASP was largely driven by unfavorable foreign currency impacts, unfavorable geographic mix, and higher pricing discounts, partially offset by favorable product mix and fewer trade-ins. ASP fluctuates from period to period based on geographic and product mix, product pricing, systems placed involving trade-ins, and changes in foreign exchange rates.
During 2022, 192 Ion systems were placed compared to 93 systems during 2021. We placed 112 and 57 Ion systems under lease or usage-based arrangements, of which 101 and 50 systems were classified as operating leases for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Ion systems placed as operating leases represented 53% of total placements during 2022, compared to 54% during 2021.

Service Revenue
Service revenue increased by 12% to $1.02 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $0.92 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Service revenue increased by 27% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $0.72 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in service revenue in 2022 was primarily driven by a larger installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems producing service revenue, partially offset by foreign currency impacts. The increase in service revenue in 2021 was primarily driven by a larger installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems producing service revenue, as well as the effects of the Customer Relief Program in the prior year, which resulted in an $80 million decrease in service revenue in 2020 as a result of service fee credits provided to customers.

73

Table of Contents
Gross Profit
Product gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased by 5% to $3.50 billion, representing 67.3% of product revenue, compared to $3.33 billion, representing 69.5% of product revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2021. The higher product gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily driven by higher product revenue, partially offset by lower product gross profit margin. The lower product gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily driven by higher fixed overhead costs from investments to drive the growth of the business and strengthen our operating capabilities, higher freight and materials costs, unfavorable foreign currency impacts, and lower 2022 da Vinci system ASPs.
Product gross profit for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, included share-based compensation expense of $67.6 million and $68.9 million, respectively, and intangible assets amortization expense of $17.3 million and $17.6 million, respectively.
Service gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased by 11% to $0.70 billion, representing 68.2% of service revenue, compared to $0.63 billion, representing 68.6% of service revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2021. The higher service gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily driven by higher service revenue, reflecting a larger installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems, partially offset by a lower service gross profit margin. The lower service gross profit margin for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily driven by higher freight and overhead costs, as well as unfavorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by lower materials costs for repairs.
Service gross profit for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, included share-based compensation expense of $23.6 million and $22.2 million, respectively, and intangible assets amortization expense of $1.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses include costs for sales, marketing and administrative personnel, sales and marketing activities, trade show expenses, legal expenses, regulatory fees, and general corporate expenses.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased by 19% to $1.74 billion, compared to $1.47 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily driven by higher headcount, resulting in increased fixed and share-based compensation expense, higher variable compensation, increased infrastructure costs to support our growth, and higher litigation charges, partially offset by favorable foreign currency impacts. In addition, there were higher travel, training, and marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared with the prior year. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we made a charitable contribution of $30 million to the Intuitive Foundation, a not-for-profit organization whose mission is to reduce the global burden of disease and suffering through research, education, and philanthropy aimed at better outcomes for patients around the globe.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, included share-based compensation expense of $261 million and $232 million, respectively, and intangible assets amortization expense of $5.9 million and $7.3 million, respectively.

Research and Development Expenses
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses include costs associated with the design, development, testing, and significant enhancement of our products.
Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased by 31% to $0.88 billion, compared to $0.67 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily driven by higher personnel-related expenses, including share-based compensation expense, project costs incurred to support a broader set of product development initiatives, including future generations of robotics, Ion and SP platform investments, and digital investments, and intangible asset-related charges.
Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, included share-based compensation expense of $164 million and $134 million, respectively, and intangible asset-related charges of $20.3 million and $11.1 million, respectively.
Research and development expenses fluctuate with project timing. Based upon our broader set of product development initiatives and the stage of the underlying projects, we expect to continue to make substantial investments in research and development and anticipate that research and development expenses will continue to increase in the future.

74

Table of Contents
Interest and Other Income, Net
Interest and other income, net, for the year ended December 31, 2022, decreased by 57% to $30 million, compared to $69 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Interest and other income, net decreased by 56% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $157 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in interest and other income, net, for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily driven by unrealized losses on investments resulting from strategic arrangements (compared to unrealized gains on investments resulting from strategic arrangements in 2021) and higher foreign exchange losses, partially offset by higher interest income earned, despite lower cash and investment balances, due to an increase in average interest rates.
We held an equity investment in preferred shares of Broncus Holding Corporation (“Broncus”), which was reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements on a cost basis. In the first quarter of 2021, we recorded an unrealized gain on our investment in Broncus of approximately $14 million. In September 2021, Broncus completed an initial public offering (“IPO”) of common shares on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. Upon completion of the IPO, the preferred shares were converted to common shares in Broncus, and we recognized a net gain on this investment in the third quarter of 2021 of approximately $8 million. We were restricted from selling these shares for a period of six months. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized a loss on this investment of approximately $21 million.
We held an equity investment in common shares of Bolder Surgical Holdings, Inc. (“Bolder”), which was reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements on a cost basis. During the fourth quarter of 2021, Hologic, Inc., a publicly traded company, completed its acquisition of Bolder. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, we received cash on the date of closing and recognized a gain on this investment of approximately $10 million.
We held an equity investment in preferred shares of InTouch Technologies, Inc. (“InTouch”), which was reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements on a cost basis. On July 1, 2020, Teladoc Health, Inc. (“Teladoc”), a publicly traded company, completed its acquisition of InTouch. Based on the terms of the agreement, we received Teladoc shares on the date of closing and recognized a gain on our investment of approximately $45 million. We were restricted from selling these shares for a period of six months. In January 2021, we sold all of our shares in Teladoc and recognized a gain on this investment of approximately $11 million. This gain was offset by a $7.5 million loss recognized upon the settlement of a corresponding derivative collar contract in January 2021.
Additionally, the Company recorded unrealized gains on other strategic investments in 2020 of approximately $22 million.

Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense was $262 million and $162 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2022 was approximately 16.3% compared to 8.6% for 2021.
Our effective tax rates for 2022 and 2021 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the excess tax benefits associated with employee equity plans, the effect of income earned by certain overseas entities being taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, and the federal research and development credit benefit, partially offset by U.S. tax on foreign earnings and state income taxes (net of federal benefit).
The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2022, reflected the impact of a change in U.S. tax law effective January 1, 2022, which requires the capitalization and amortization of research and development expenditures incurred after December 31, 2021.
The increase in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily due to the impact of the capitalization of research and development and lower excess tax benefits, as discussed below, as well as the fact that income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2021, included a one-time benefit of $66.4 million from the re-measurement of our Swiss deferred tax assets resulting from the extension of the economic useful life of certain intangible assets. The increase was partially offset by a one-time charge of $13.6 million in 2021, which related to intercompany charges for share-based compensation for relevant periods prior to 2020, triggered by additional Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) guidance issued in July 2021 associated with a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals opinion involving an independent third party.
Our provision for income taxes for 2022 and 2021 included excess tax benefits associated with employee equity plans of $99 million and $186 million, respectively, which reduced our effective tax rate by 6.1 and 9.8 percentage points, respectively. The amount of excess tax benefits or deficiencies will fluctuate from period to period based on the price of our stock, the volume of share-based awards settled or vested, and the value assigned to employee equity awards under GAAP, which results in increased income tax expense volatility.
On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (“IRA”) was enacted in the United States. The IRA introduces a 15% alternative minimum tax based on the financial statement income of certain large corporations, effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022. The IRA also includes a 1% excise tax on the net fair market value of stock repurchases made after

75

Table of Contents
December 31, 2022. We have considered the applicable tax law changes, and there is no impact on our tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2022. We will continue to evaluate the impact of these tax law changes on future periods.
We file federal, state, and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the U.S. and abroad. Years prior to 2016 are considered closed for most significant jurisdictions. Certain of our unrecognized tax benefits could change due to activities of various tax authorities, including evolving interpretations of existing tax laws in the jurisdictions we operate, potential assessment of additional tax, possible settlement of audits, or through normal expiration of various statutes of limitations, which could affect our effective tax rate in the period in which they change. Due to the uncertainty related to the timing and potential outcome of audits, we cannot estimate the range of reasonably possible changes in unrecognized tax benefits that may occur in the next 12 months.
We are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The outcome of these audits cannot be predicted with certainty. Management regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs.

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest in Joint Venture
The Company’s Joint Venture with Fosun Pharma was established to research, develop, manufacture, and sell robotic-assisted, catheter-based medical devices. The Joint Venture is owned 60% by us and 40% by Fosun Pharma and is located in China. The catheter-based technology will initially target early diagnosis and cost-effective treatment of lung cancer, one of the most commonly diagnosed forms of cancer in the world. Distribution of catheter-based medical devices in China will be conducted by the Joint Venture, while distribution outside of China will be conducted by us.
In January 2019, the Joint Venture acquired certain assets, including distribution rights, customer relationships, and certain personnel, from Chindex and its affiliates, a subsidiary of Fosun Pharma, and began direct operations for da Vinci products and services in China. As of December 31, 2022, the companies have contributed $55 million of up to $100 million required by the joint venture agreement.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in Joint Venture for the year ended December 31, 2022, was $22.1 million, compared to $23.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, and $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in Joint Venture for the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily due to a decrease in sales and an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in China, partially offset by a decrease in income tax expense in China.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources and Uses of Cash and Cash Equivalents
Our principal source of liquidity is cash provided by operations and by the issuance of common stock through the exercise of stock options and our employee stock purchase program. Cash and cash equivalents plus short- and long-term investments decreased by $1.88 billion to $6.74 billion as of December 31, 2022, from $8.62 billion as of December 31, 2021, primarily from cash used in share repurchases, capital expenditures, and taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards, as well as unrealized losses on interest-bearing debt securities classified as available for sale, offset by cash provided by our operations and proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases. Cash and cash equivalents plus short- and long-term investments increased by $1.75 billion to $8.62 billion as of December 31, 2021, from $6.87 billion as of December 31, 2020, primarily from cash provided by our operations and proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases, partially offset by capital expenditures and taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards.
Our cash requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products, and other factors. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand procedure adoption and acceptance of our products. We have made substantial investments in our commercial operations, product development activities, facilities, and intellectual property. Based on our business model, we anticipate that we will continue to be able to fund future growth through cash provided by our operations. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances, together with income to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may experience reduced cash flow from operations as a result of the increasing risk of a recession along with other macroeconomic and geopolitical headwinds.
As of December 31, 2022, $396 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments was held by foreign subsidiaries. We intend to repatriate earnings from our Swiss subsidiary and our joint venture in Hong Kong, as needed, since the U.S. and foreign tax implications of such repatriations are not expected to be significant. We will continue to indefinitely reinvest earnings from the rest of our foreign subsidiaries, which are not significant.

76

Table of Contents
See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for discussion on the impact of interest rate risk and market risk on our investment portfolio.

Consolidated Cash Flow Data
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 (in millions):

----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------- ---- --------- ---- ------- ------- - -------
 Years Ended December 31,
 2022 2021 2020

Net cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 1,490.8 $ 2,089.4 $ 1,484.8
Investing activities 1,370.8 (2,461.5) (940.6)
Financing activities (2,572.3) 43.0 (85.7)
Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 5.4 (3.4) (2.6)
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 294.7 $ (332.5) $ 455.9

Operating Activities
For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash provided by operating activities of $1.49 billion exceeded our net income of $1.34 billion, primarily due to the following factors:
1.Our net income included non-cash charges of $766 million, consisting primarily of the following significant items: share-based compensation of $513 million; depreciation expense and losses on the disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $338 million; changes in deferred income taxes of $(185) million; and net losses on investments, accretion, and amortization of $49 million.
2.The non-cash charges outlined above were partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $619 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2022. Inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant, and equipment, increased by $547 million, primarily to address the growth in the business as well as to mitigate risks of disruption that could arise from trade, supply, or other matters. Refer to further details in the supplemental cash flow information in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts receivable increased by $159 million, primarily due to the timing of billings and collections. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased by $129 million, primarily due to an increase in net investments in sales-type leases and an increase in recoverable VAT related to growth in our OUS activities. The unfavorable impact of these items on cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by a $122 million increase in other liabilities, primarily due to additional accruals related to capital expenditures and timing of income tax payments, a $52 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits, primarily due to higher headcount and variable compensation, and a $21 million increase in accounts payable, primarily due to the timing of billing and payments.
For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash provided by operating activities of $2.09 billion exceeded our net income of $1.73 billion, primarily due to the following factors:
1.Our net income included non-cash charges of $729 million, consisting primarily of the following significant items: share-based compensation of $449 million; depreciation expense and losses on the disposal of property, plant, and equipment of $283 million; changes in deferred income taxes of $(63) million; and amortization of intangible assets of $27 million.
2.The non-cash charges outlined above were partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in $368 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2021. Inventory, including the transfer of equipment from inventory to property, plant, and equipment, increased by $256 million, primarily to address the growth in the business as well as to mitigate risks of disruption that could arise from trade, supply, or other matters. Refer to further details in the supplemental cash flow information in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased by $205 million, primarily due to an increase in net investments in sales-type leases, and accounts receivable increased by $142 million, primarily due to the timing of billings and collections. The unfavorable impact of these items on cash used in operating activities was partially offset by a $115 million increase in accrued compensation and employee benefits, primarily due to higher headcount and variable compensation, a $51 million increase in other liabilities, primarily due to additional accruals related to capital expenditures and timing of income tax payments, a $36 million increase in accounts payable, primarily due to the timing of payments and vendor billings, and a $33 million increase in deferred revenue, primarily due to increased volume of sales contracts.

77

Table of Contents
Investing Activities
Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022, consisted primarily of proceeds from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases, of $1.92 billion, partially offset by $532 million paid for the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, consisted primarily of purchases of investments, net of proceeds from maturities and sales, of $2.10 billion and $340 million paid for the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, consisted of purchases of investments, net of proceeds from maturities and sales, of $561 million, $342 million paid for the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment, and $38 million paid for the Orpheus Medical acquisition, net of cash acquired.
We invest predominantly in high quality, fixed income securities. Our investment portfolio may, at any time, contain investments in U.S. treasury and U.S. government agency securities, taxable and tax-exempt municipal notes, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, non-U.S. government agency securities, cash deposits, and money market funds.

Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022, consisted primarily of cash used in the repurchase of approximately 11.2 million shares of our common stock for $2.61 billion, 8.5 million shares of which related to accelerated share buyback programs executed and settled during 2022 and further described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlements of vested employee equity awards of $194 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $234 million.
Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, consisted primarily of proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $277 million, partially offset by taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlements of vested employee equity awards of $212 million, and the payment of deferred purchase consideration of $22 million.
Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, consisted primarily of taxes paid on behalf of employees related to net share settlements of vested employee equity awards of $175 million, cash used in the repurchase of approximately 0.7 million shares of our common stock in the open market for $134 million, and the payment of deferred purchase consideration of $85 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases of $309 million.
Capital Expenditures
Our capital expenditures are increasing as we continue to build the Company to supply our customers with highly differentiated products manufactured in highly automated factories that facilitate outstanding performance in product quality, availability, and cost. A significant portion of this investment involves the construction of facilities to expand our manufacturing and commercial capabilities. We have also been vertically integrating key technologies to develop a more robust supply chain and bring important products to market at attractive price points. These investments include increased ownership of our imaging pipelines, investments in strategic instruments and accessories technologies, as well as the development of software and digital products that allow us to serve our customers better. We expect these capital investments to increase significantly in 2023 to a range between $800 million and $1 billion, over half of which will be facilities-related investments. We intend to fund these capital investments with cash generated from operations.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
Operating leases. We lease spaces for our operations in the U.S. as well as in Japan, China, Israel, Mexico, Germany, South Korea, the United Kingdom, and other countries. We also lease automobiles for certain sales and field service employees. These leases have varying terms of up to 20 years. Operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all of our non-cancellable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year. Refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 for further details.
Purchase commitments and obligations. Total purchase commitments and obligations as of December 31, 2022, are estimated to be $2.14 billion, of which $1.79 billion is expected to be due within a year. These amounts include an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for which we have not received the goods or services, commitments for capital expenditures, including construction-related activities, for which we have not received the goods or services, and commitments for the acquisition and licensing of intellectual property. More than one third of our estimated purchase commitments and obligations are facilities-related. Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or

78

Table of Contents
performance of services. In addition to the above, we have committed to making potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration, and development arrangements. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory, and/or commercial milestones. For instances in which the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
2017 Tax Act deemed repatriation tax. As of December 31, 2022, our obligation associated with the deemed repatriation tax is $161 million, of which $40 million is due within a year. Amounts due are expected to be paid in installments in accordance with the 2017 Tax Act.
We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when payments may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of December 31, 2022, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Exchange Act.

Critical Accounting Estimates
Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires us to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions. See “Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for a description of our significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Our most critical accounting estimates include:
•the valuation and recognition of investments, which impacts our investment portfolio balance when we assess fair value and interest and other income, net, when we record impairments;
•the standalone selling prices used to allocate the contract consideration to the individual performance obligations, which impacts revenue recognition;
•the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross profit margins;
•the valuation of and assessment of the recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill and the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross profit margin or operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their amortization;
•the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions), which impact our provision for taxes; and
•the estimate of probable loss associated with legal contingencies, which impacts accrued liabilities and operating expenses.
Investments Valuation
Fair Value. Our investments may include, at any time, a diversified portfolio of cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments in a variety of high-quality securities, including money market funds, U.S. treasury and U.S. government agency securities, corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, non-U.S. government agency securities, and municipal notes, as well as equity investments with and without readily determinable value. The assessment of the fair value of investments can be difficult and subjective. GAAP establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value. Each level of input has different levels of subjectivity and difficulty involved in determining fair value. Valuation of Level 1 and 2 instruments generally do not require significant management judgment, and the estimation is not difficult. Level 3 instruments include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The determination of fair value for Level 3 instruments requires the most management judgment and subjectivity. There were no Level 3 securities for the periods presented.
After determining the fair value of our available-for-sale instruments, we identify instruments with an amortized cost basis in excess of their estimated fair value. Available-for-sale instruments in an unrealized loss position are written down to fair value through a charge to interest and other income, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income, if we intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. For the remaining securities, we assess what amount of the excess, if any, is caused by expected credit losses. Factors considered in determining whether a credit-related loss exists include the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, the extent of the loss related to the credit of the issuer, and the expected cash flows from the security. These judgments could prove to be wrong, and companies with relatively high credit ratings and solid financial conditions may not be able to fulfill their obligations.

79

Table of Contents
No significant impairment charges were recorded during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020. As of December 31, 2022, and 2021, net unrealized losses on investments of $154.2 million and $16.0 million, net of tax, respectively, were included in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Revenue recognition. Our system sale arrangements contain multiple products and services, including system(s), system components, system accessories, instruments, accessories, and services. Other than services, we generally deliver all of the products upfront. Each of these products and services is a distinct performance obligation. System accessories, instruments, accessories, and services are also sold on a standalone basis.
For multiple-element arrangements, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling prices are based on observable prices at which we separately sell the products or services. If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, then we estimate the standalone selling prices considering market conditions and entity-specific factors including, but not limited to, features and functionality of the products and services, geographies, type of customer, and market conditions. We regularly review standalone selling prices and maintain internal controls over establishing and updating these estimates.
Our system sales arrangements generally include a five-year period of service. The first year of service is generally free and included in the system sale arrangement, and the remaining four years are billed at a stated service price. Revenue that is allocated to the service obligation is deferred and recognized ratably over the service period.
Inventory valuation. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value on a first-in, first-out basis. The cost basis of our inventory is reduced for any products that are considered excess or obsolete based on assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.
Valuation of intangible assets and goodwill. We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration, including contingent consideration, to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. The estimates and assumptions used in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to determine the present value of these cash flows, and the determination of the assets’ life cycle. These estimates are inherently uncertain and, therefore, actual results may differ from the estimates made.
Our intangible assets include identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Identifiable intangible assets include developed technology, patents, distribution rights, customer relationships, licenses, and non-competition arrangements. Currently, all of our identifiable intangible assets have finite lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are subject to an annual impairment review (or more frequent if impairment indicators arise) by applying a fair value-based test. There have been no such impairments.
Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are subject to impairment testing and are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of these identifiable intangible assets based on estimated undiscounted cash flows to be generated from such assets. If the cash flow estimates or the significant operating assumptions upon which they are based change in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges.
The valuation and classification of intangible assets and goodwill and the assignment of useful lives for purposes of amortization involves judgments and the use of estimates. The evaluation of these intangible assets and goodwill for impairment under established accounting principles is required on a recurring basis. Changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to the assumptions made. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter than we had originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of amortization over the assets’ new, shorter useful lives. No impairment charges or accelerated amortization were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020. A considerable amount of judgment is required in assessing impairment, which includes financial forecasts. If conditions are different from management’s current estimates, material write-downs of long-lived assets may be required, which would adversely affect our operating results.
Accounting for income taxes. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any valuation allowance recorded against net deferred tax assets in accordance with GAAP. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and

80

Table of Contents
financial statement purposes, as well as the interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease in our tax provision in the current period or subsequent periods.
Also, we must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. In the event that all or part of our deferred tax assets are not recoverable in the future, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be recoverable. In order for our deferred tax assets to be recoverable, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, in determining the need for a valuation allowance. As of December 31, 2022, we believe that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will ultimately be recovered, with the exception of our California deferred tax assets. We believe that, due to the computation of California taxes under the single sales factor, it is more likely than not that our California deferred tax assets will not be realized. Should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our tax provision would be affected in the period in which such change takes place.
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If we determine that a tax position will more likely than not be sustained on audit, then the second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effective settlement of audit issues, and new audit activity. Such a change in the recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.
Accounting for legal contingencies.  From time to time, we are involved in a number of legal proceedings involving product liability, intellectual property, shareholder derivative actions, securities class actions, insurance, employee-related, and other matters. We record a liability and related charge to earnings in our Consolidated Financial Statements for legal contingencies when the loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment is re-evaluated each accounting period and is based on all available information, including discussion with any outside legal counsel that represents us. If a reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss cannot be made, but a range of probable losses can be estimated, the low-end of the range of losses is recognized if no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other. If a loss is reasonably possible, but not probable, and can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
When determining the estimated probable loss or range of losses, significant judgment is required to be exercised in order to estimate the amount and timing of the loss to be recorded. Estimates of probable losses resulting from litigation are inherently difficult to make, particularly when the matters are in early procedural stages with incomplete facts and information. The final outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on many variables and is difficult to predict and, therefore, the ultimate cost to entirely resolve such matters may be materially different than the amount of current estimates. Consequently, new information or changes in judgments and estimates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
See “Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding recent accounting pronouncements, including the respective expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

81

Table of Contents

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Refer to Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
(4)The year-over-year increases in rental locations and employees include the impact of the December 2022 acquisition of assets of Ahern Rentals, Inc. ("Ahern Rentals"), which is discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experienc...

[Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[included in Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29
