================================================================================
CIK: 0000783325
Company Name: WEC ENERGY GROUP, INC
Filing Date: 2023-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 12:16:04
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements.

F. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Our operations, especially as they relate to our coal-fired generating facilities, are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. Costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. Additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation related to GHG emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, water use, or wastewater discharges and other climate change issues, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs.

Anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and certain remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements. For a discussion of certain environmental matters affecting us, including rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, land quality, and climate change, see Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies.

G. HUMAN CAPITAL

We believe our employees are among our most important resources, so investing in human capital is critical to our success. We strive to foster a diverse workforce and inclusive workplace; attract, retain and develop talented personnel; and keep our employees safe and healthy.

Our Board of Directors retains collective responsibility for comprehensive risk oversight, including critical areas that could impact our sustainability, such as human capital. Management regularly reports to the Board of Directors on human capital management topics, including corporate culture, diversity, equity, and inclusion, employee development, and safety and health. The Board of Directors delegates specified duties to its committees. In addition to its responsibilities relative to executive compensation, the Compensation Committee has oversight responsibility for reviewing organizational matters that could significantly impact us, including succession planning. The Compensation Committee reviews recruiting and development programs and priorities, receives updates on key talent, and assesses workforce diversity across the organization.

Workforce

As of December 31, 2022, we had the following number of employees, including those represented under union agreements:

--------------- --------------- --------------- -----
 Total Employees Union Employees
WE 2,451 1,905
WPS 1,136 813
WG 387 274
PGL 1,348 934
NSG 155 119
MERC 197 41
MGU 137 88
WBS 1,211 —

Total employees 7,022 4,174

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 22 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
We have a local union presence that spans Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Michigan. We believe we have very good overall relations with our workforce.

In order to attract and retain talent, we provide competitive wages and benefits to our employees based on their performance, role, location, and market data. Our compensation package also includes a 401(k) savings plan with an employer match, an annual incentive plan based on meeting company goals, healthcare and insurance benefits, vacation and paid time off days, as well as other benefits.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

We are committed to fostering a diverse workforce and inclusive workplace. Our commitment is a core strategic competency and an integral part of our culture. As of December 31, 2022, women and racial minorities represented approximately 25% and 26%, respectively, of our workforce. We have a number of initiatives that promote diverse workforce contributions, educate employees about diversity, equity, and inclusion, and ensure our companies are attractive employers for persons of diverse backgrounds. These initiatives include nine business resource groups (voluntary, employee-led groups organized around a particular shared background or interest), mentoring programs, and training for leaders on countering unconscious bias, building inclusive teams, and preventing workplace harassment. We also support external leadership and educational programs that support, train, and promote women and minorities in the communities we serve.

Safety and Health

Our Executive Safety Committee directs our safety and health strategy, works to ensure consistency across groups, and reinforces our ongoing safety commitment that we refer to as “Target Zero.” Under our Target Zero commitment, we have an ultimate goal of zero incidents, accidents, and injuries. Our corporate safety program provides a forum for addressing employee concerns, training employees and contractors on current safety standards, and recognizing those who demonstrate a safety focus. We monitor and set goals for Occupational Safety and Health Administration lost-time incidents and days away, restricted or transferred metrics, as well as leading indicators, which together raise awareness about employee safety and guide injury-prevention activities.

We also provide employees various benefits and resources designed to promote healthy living, both at work and at home. We encourage employees to receive preventive examinations and to proactively care for their health through free health screenings, wellness challenges, and other resources.

Development and Training

Employee training and development of both technical and leadership skills are integral aspects of our human capital strategy. We provide employees with a wide range of development opportunities, including online training, simulations, live classes, and mentoring to assist with their career advancement. These programs include safety and technical job skill training as well as soft-skill programs focused on relevant subjects, including communication and change management. Development of leadership skills remains a top priority and is specialized for all levels of employees. We have specific leadership programs for aspiring leaders and new supervisors, managers, and directors. This development of our employees is an integral part of our succession planning and provides continuity for our senior leadership.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 23 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

We are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the SEC from time to time, when making an investment decision.

Risks Related to Legislation and Regulation

Our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation and oversight.

We are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulations, including regulations by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. These regulations significantly influence our operating environment, may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers, and cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs. Changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could also significantly impact us, including requiring us to change our business operations. Many aspects of our operations are regulated and impacted by government regulation, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; the authorized rates of return of our utilities; construction and operation of electric generating facilities and electric and natural gas distribution systems, including the ability to recover such costs; decommissioning generating facilities, the ability to recover the related costs, and continuing to recover the return on the net book value of these facilities; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. Failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

The rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Rate regulation provides us an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. However, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. In addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable ROE. We defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery from or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. Future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. If recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

The QIP rider provides PGL with recovery of, and a return on, qualifying natural gas infrastructure investments that are placed in service between regulatory rate reviews. Infrastructure investments under the QIP rider earn a return at the applicable weighted average cost of capital. This rider is subject to an annual reconciliation whereby costs are reviewed for accuracy and prudency. There can be no assurance that all costs incurred under the QIP rider during the open reconciliation years, which include 2016 through 2022, will be deemed recoverable by the ICC. In addition, the QIP rider will sunset after December 2023, and PGL will not seek an extension. Instead, PGL will return to the regular ratemaking process to recover costs of necessary infrastructure improvements, subjecting PGL to regulatory lag on its natural gas infrastructure investments that are placed in service between regulatory rate reviews. This regulatory lag, as well as the risk of costs being deemed unrecoverable during the review process, could have a material adverse impact on PGL’s, and correspondingly our, results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.

We believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied in all material respects with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. These permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. In addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. Licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. We cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 24 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
If we are unable to recover costs of complying with regulations or other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.

We face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations.

Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state, and local environmental laws, regulations, and permit requirements related to, among other things, air emissions (including, but not limited to: CO2, methane, mercury, SO2, and NOx), protection of natural resources, water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous and toxic substances and solid wastes and soils. For example, the EPA adopted and implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of NOx, ozone, fine particulates, and other air pollutants under the CAA through the NAAQS, climate change regulations, NSPS for GHG emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed fossil-fueled power plants, and other air quality regulations. The EPA also finalized regulations under the Clean Water Act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants, revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants, and along with the United States Army Corps of Engineers, released a final rule revising the definition of WOTUS that may impact projects requiring federal permits. Several of these rules are being challenged or reviewed by agencies under the Biden Administration's Executive Order 13990, which creates additional uncertainty. As a result of these challenges and reviews, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal, state, or local level.

We incur significant capital and operating resources to comply with environmental laws, regulations, and requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment; operating restrictions on our facilities; and environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. The operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could also increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. These regulations may create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels and our ability to continue operating certain generating units. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. We continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations.

As a result of these compliance costs and other factors, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities have become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which has resulted in these units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. As part of our commitment to a cleaner energy future, we have already retired more than 1,800 MW of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018. Under our ESG Progress Plan, we expect to retire approximately 1,600 MW of additional fossil-fueled generation by the end of 2026, and plan to replace a portion of the retired capacity by building and owning zero-carbon-emitting renewable generation facilities. We continue to evaluate the conversion of certain coal units to natural gas.

Our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities and at third-party owned sites. We accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. These costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation and related legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered (or that may be recovered) from insurance or other third parties. Due to the potential for the imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future, the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be willing or financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, a change in conditions or the discovery of additional contamination, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate or could vary from the amounts currently accrued.

Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, occurs frequently throughout the United States. This litigation has included claims for damages alleged to have been caused by GHG and other emissions and exposure to regulated substances and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters. In addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of facilities that we previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during, or after the time we owned or operated these facilities. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. The incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 25 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
In the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity and natural gas, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

Our operations, capital expenditures, and financial results may be affected by the impact of greenhouse gas legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals.

There is continued scientific and political attention to issues concerning the existence and extent of climate change. Management expects this attention to continue since climate change is one of President Biden's primary initiatives, with significant actions being taken by his administration with more expected to follow. As a result, we expect the EPA and states to adopt and implement additional regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs. There have also been increasing efforts to introduce and adopt electrification initiatives and/or mandates and other efforts to reduce the use of natural gas. In addition, there is increasing activism from other stakeholders, including institutional investors and other sources of financing, to accelerate the transition to lower GHG emissions.

Costs associated with such legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals could be significant. GHG regulations that may be adopted in the future, at either the federal or state level, or other necessary changes to our ESG Progress Plan, may cause our environmental compliance spending to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. There is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with these and other federal and state regulations or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. These regulations, as well as changes in the fuel markets and advances in technology, could make additional electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, may impact how we operate our existing fossil-fueled power plants and biomass facility, and could cause us to retire and replace units earlier than planned under the ESG Progress Plan, which could lead to a possible loss on abandonment and reduced revenues.

In addition, our natural gas delivery systems and natural gas storage fields may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair. Fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane. CO2 is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. Certain states outside our service territories have passed legislation banning natural gas used in new construction in order to limit these GHG emissions. Future local, statewide, or nationwide actions like these to regulate GHG emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, cause us to accelerate the replacement and/or updating of our natural gas delivery systems, and adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities. A significant increase in the price of natural gas may increase rates for our natural gas customers, which could reduce natural gas demand.

The adoption of electrification initiatives and/or mandates could result in a further reduction in natural gas demand and revenue, as well as an increase in electrical demand and increased investment costs for existing or new electrical systems. These types of initiatives and/or mandates could result in increased costs associated with permitting and siting of new technologies and delayed installation and start-up timelines. In addition, financial investments in older carbon intensive technologies may not be fully realized.

We have set goals to achieve reductions in carbon emissions from our electric generation fleet by 60% by the end of 2025 and by 80% by the end of 2030, both from a 2005 baseline. Over the longer term, the target for our generation fleet is net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050. We also believe we will be in a position to eliminate coal as an energy source by the end of 2035.

We continue to monitor the financial and operational feasibility of taking more aggressive action to further reduce GHG emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases. Through our ESG Progress Plan, we continue to reduce methane emissions by improving our natural gas distribution systems. We set a target across our natural gas distribution operations to achieve net-zero methane emissions by the end of 2030.

The ability to achieve these reductions in CO2 and methane emissions depends on many external factors, including the ability to make operating refinements, the retirement of less efficient generating units, the development of relevant energy technologies, the use of RNG throughout our natural gas utility systems, and the ability to execute our capital plan. These efforts could impact how we operate our electric generating units and natural gas facilities and lead to increased competition and regulation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 26 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Changes in tax legislation, IRS audits, or our inability to use certain tax benefits and carryforwards, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings.

Tax legislation and regulations can adversely affect, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, and credit ratings. Future changes to corporate tax rates or policies, including under Treasury Regulations and guidance issued in connection with the IRA, could require us to take material charges against earnings. Such changes include, among other things, increasing the federal corporate income tax rate, disallowing use of certain tax benefits and carryforwards, limiting interest deductions, and altering the expensing of capital expenditures. Our inability to manage these changes, an adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions, or additional interpretations, implementing regulations, amendments, or technical corrections by the Treasury Department, the IRS, or state income tax authorities, could significantly impact our financial results and cash flows.

We have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liabilities in the past through tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions. A reduction in or disallowance of these tax benefits could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We have not fully used these allowed tax benefits in our previous tax filings and have carried them forward to use against future taxable income. Our inability to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to fully use these tax carryforwards before they expire or to transfer future tax credits as discussed below, could significantly affect our tax obligations and financial results.

In addition, we have invested, and plan to continue to invest, in renewable energy generating facilities. These facilities generate PTCs or ITCs that we can use to reduce our federal tax obligations. The recently passed IRA may also allow us to transfer some of these future credits to third parties at a discounted value. We are still awaiting Treasury guidance on how and when we are allowed to transfer these credits. The amount of tax credits we earn depends on available government incentives and policies, the amount of electricity produced, the applicable tax credit rate, or the amount of the investment in qualifying property. In addition, a variety of operating and economic factors, including transmission constraints, adverse weather conditions, and breakdown or failure of equipment, could significantly reduce the PTCs generated by the renewable projects we have invested in, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The imposition of additional taxes, tariffs, or other assessments related to renewable energy projects as well as any reductions or eliminations of tax credits or other governmental incentives that promote renewable energy generating facilities may limit our ability to make further investments in renewable energy generating facilities or reduce the returns on our existing investments.

We are also uncertain as to how credit rating agencies, capital markets, the FERC, or state public utility commissions will treat any future changes to federal or state tax legislation. These impacts could subject us or any of our subsidiaries to credit rating downgrades. In addition, certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, could be negatively impacted by changes in federal or state income tax legislation.

Our electric utilities could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards.

Our electric utilities are subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. If our electric utilities are found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, or damage to our reputation.

Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock.

Under the Holding Company Act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. Under the Holding Company Act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exemptions for energy-related assets.

In addition, the Holding Company Act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. This provision and other requirements of the Holding Company Act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of WEC Energy Group. As a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 27 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business

Public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, could adversely affect our business functions, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.

Public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, and any related government responses may adversely impact the economy and financial markets and could have a variety of adverse impacts on us and our subsidiaries, including a decrease in revenues; increased bad debt expense; increases in past due accounts receivable balances; and access to the capital markets at unreasonable terms or rates.

Public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, and any related government responses could also impair our and our subsidiaries' ability to develop, construct, and operate facilities. Risks include extended disruptions to supply chains and inflation, resulting in increased costs for labor, materials, and services, which could adversely impact our ability to implement our corporate strategy. We may also be adversely impacted by labor disruptions and productivity as a result of infections, employee attrition, and a reduced ability to replace departing employees as a result of employees who leave or forego employment to avoid any required precautionary measures.

Despite our efforts to manage the impacts of public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, that may occur in the future, the extent to which they may affect us depends on factors beyond our knowledge or control. As a result, we are unable to determine the potential impact any such public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, may have on our business plans and operations, liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities, natural gas storage fields, renewable energy facilities, and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers.

Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generation, natural gas and electric distribution facilities, natural gas storage fields, and renewable energy facilities. The operation of these facilities involves many risks, including operator error and the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes.

Potential breakdown or failure may occur due to severe weather (i.e., storms, tornadoes, floods, droughts, etc.); catastrophic events (i.e., fires, earthquakes, and explosions); public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics; significant changes in water levels in waterways; fuel supply or transportation disruptions; accidents; employee labor disputes; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material, and/or labor; performance below expected levels; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist or other physical attacks; or cyber security intrusions. Any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses, including increased maintenance costs, unanticipated capital expenditures, and a reduction of revenues related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities. Because our electric generation and renewable energy facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by events impacting their systems. Unplanned outages at our power plants may reduce our revenues, cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses.

Insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of these lost revenues or increased expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.

The operations of our natural gas utilities depend upon the availability of adequate interstate pipeline transportation capacity and natural gas.

Our natural gas utilities purchase almost all of their natural gas supply from interstate sources that must be transported to the applicable service territories. Interstate pipeline companies transport the natural gas to our natural gas utilities’ systems under firm service agreements that are designed to meet the requirements of their core markets. A significant disruption to interstate pipelines capacity or reduction in natural gas supply due to events including, but not limited to, operational failures or disruptions, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, freeze off of natural gas wells, terrorist or physical attacks, cyberattacks, other acts of war, or legislative or regulatory actions or requirements, including remediation related to integrity inspections or regulations and laws enacted to address climate change, could reduce the normal interstate supply of natural gas and thereby significantly disrupt our operations and/or reduce earnings. For example, in December 2022, the Guardian Pipeline experienced a significant equipment failure, which limited

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 28 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
the amount of natural gas that it could send our Wisconsin natural gas utilities. Moreover, if additional natural gas infrastructure, including, but not limited to, exploration and drilling rigs and platforms, processing and gathering systems, offshore pipelines, interstate pipelines and storage, cannot be built at a pace that meets demand, then growth opportunities could be limited.

Our operations are subject to various conditions that can result in fluctuations in energy sales to customers, including customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas, varying weather conditions, and energy conservation efforts.

Our results of operations and cash flows are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon:

•Fluctuations in customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas. Customer growth and energy use can be negatively impacted by population declines as well as economic factors in our service territories, including workforce reductions, stagnant wage growth, changing levels of support from state and local government for economic development, business closings, and reductions in the level of business investment. Our electric and natural gas utilities are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. Any economic downturn, disruption of financial markets, or reduced incentives by state government for economic development could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products or services. These risks could directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas as well as the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. We could also be exposed to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills.
•Weather conditions. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months when cooling and heating is necessary. In addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. As a result, our overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, milder temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season may result in lower revenues and net income.
•Our customers' continued focus on energy conservation. Our customers' use of electricity and natural gas has decreased as a result of continued individual conservation efforts, including the use of more energy efficient technologies. Customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income and increases in energy prices. Conservation of energy can be influenced by certain federal and state programs that are intended to influence how consumers use energy. For example, several states, including Wisconsin and Michigan, have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption.

As part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer growth and general economic conditions, weather, and customer energy conservation efforts, but risks still remain. Any of these matters, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

Our operations are subject to the effects of global climate change.

A changing climate creates uncertainty and could result in broad changes, both physical and financial in nature, to our service territories.

If climate changes occur that result in extreme temperatures in our service territories, our financial results could be adversely impacted by lower electric and natural gas usage and higher natural gas costs. An extreme weather event could result in downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment, which could result in us incurring significant restoration costs and foregoing sales of electricity and lost revenues. An extreme weather event could also cause the cost of gas purchased for our natural gas utility customers and for the use of fuel at our generation facilities to be temporarily driven significantly higher than our normal winter weather expectations. Although our utilities have regulatory mechanisms in place for recovering all prudently incurred natural gas costs, regulatory commissions could disallow recovery or order the refund of any costs determined to be imprudent.

In addition, our operations could be adversely affected and our facilities placed at greater risk of damage should changes in global climate produce, among other possible conditions, unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, which could result in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, such as wind storms, floods, tornadoes, snow and ice storms, or abnormal levels of precipitation. Extreme weather may result in unexpected increases in customer load, requiring us to procure additional power at wholesale prices for our retail operations, unpredictable curtailment of customer load by MISO to maintain grid reliability, or other grid reliability issues. Any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses including increased maintenance costs, unanticipated capital expenditures, or a reduction of revenues related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities. The cost of storm restoration efforts may also not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 29 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Our corporate strategy may be impacted by policy and legal, technology, market, and reputational risks and opportunities that are associated with the transition to lower GHG emissions. In addition, changes in policy to combat climate change, including mitigation and adaptation efforts, and technology advancement, each of which can also accelerate the implications of a transition to lower emissions, may materially adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows through significant capital expenditures and investments in renewable generation.

Our operations and future results may be impacted by changing expectations and demands of our customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders, including heightened emphasis on environmental, social and governance concerns.

Our ability to execute our strategy and achieve anticipated financial outcomes are influenced by the expectations of our customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders. Those expectations are based in part on the core fundamentals of affordability and reliability but are also increasingly focused on our ability to meet rapidly changing demands for new and varied products, services, and offerings. Additionally, the risks of global climate change continues to shape our customers’ sustainability goals and energy needs, as well as the investment and financing criteria of investors. Failure to meet these increasing expectations or to adequately address the risks and external pressures from regulators, customers, investors, and other stakeholders may impact our reputation and affect our ability to achieve favorable outcomes in future rate cases or our results of operations. Furthermore, the increasing use of social media may accelerate and increase the potential scope of negative publicity we might receive and could increase the negative impact on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. As it relates to electric generation, a diversified fleet with increasingly clean generation resources may facilitate more efficient financing and lower costs. Conversely, jurisdictions utilizing more carbon-intensive generation such as coal may experience difficulty attracting certain investors and obtaining the most economical financing terms available. Furthermore, with this heightened emphasis on environmental, social, and governance concerns, and climate change in particular, there is an increased risk of litigation.

Our operations and corporate strategy may be adversely affected by supply chain disruptions and inflation.

Our business is dependent on the global supply chain to ensure that equipment, materials, and other resources are available to both expand and maintain services in a safe and reliable manner. Current domestic and global supply chain disruptions are delaying the delivery, and in some cases resulting in shortages of, materials, equipment, and other resources that are critical to our business operations. Failure to eliminate or manage the constraints in the supply chain may eventually impact the availability of items that are necessary to support normal operations as well as materials that are required to implement our corporate strategy for continued infrastructure growth, including our renewable energy projects.

Moreover, prices of equipment, materials, and other resources have increased recently as a result of these supply chain disruptions and may continue to increase in the future, as a result of inflation. Increases in inflation raise our costs for labor, materials, and services, and failure to secure these resources on economically acceptable terms, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates to account for increased costs, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.

We are actively involved with multiple significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects.

Our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. We also expect to continue constructing and investing in renewable energy generating facilities as part of the ESG Progress Plan, including repowering existing wind generation projects in our generation portfolio, and as part of our non-utility energy infrastructure segment. In addition, WBS continues to invest in technology and the development of software applications to support our utilities.

Achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties, some of which we will have limited or no control over, that could adversely affect project costs and completion time. Supply chain disruptions, including solar panel shortages and increasing material costs as a result of government tariffs and other factors, could impact the timing of completion of our renewable projects. Additional risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to adhere to established budgets and time frames; the availability of labor or materials at estimated costs; the ability of contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable laws or regulations; rising interest rates; the impact of public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. In addition, certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. If construction of commission-approved projects should materially and adversely deviate from the schedules, estimates, and/or projections on which the approval was based, our regulators may deem the additional capital costs as imprudent and

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 30 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
disallow recovery of them through rates, and otherwise available PTCs and ITCs for renewable energy projects could be lost or lose value.

To the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, tax credits are lost or lose value, or we (or third parties with whom we invest and/or partner) otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our (or their) capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected.

Our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security intrusions, terrorist or other physical attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information.

We have been subject to attempted cyber attacks from time to time, and will likely continue to be subject to such attempted attacks; however, these prior attacks have not had a material impact on our system or business operations. Despite the implementation of security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to physical or cyber security intrusions caused by human error, vendor bugs, terrorist or other physical attacks (including potential attacks on our substations and other electric distribution equipment), acts of war, or other malicious acts. These threats could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. If our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached, and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions, and data, including sensitive information, could be compromised.

We operate in an industry that requires the use of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems shared with third parties. A successful physical or cyber security intrusion may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, which include compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. Successful cyber security intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. Attacks may come through ransomware, software updates or patches, or firmware that hackers can manipulate. These intrusions may cause unplanned outages at our power plants, which may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. The risk of such intrusions may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure.

Our continued efforts to integrate, consolidate, and streamline our operations have also resulted in increased reliance on current and recently completed projects for technology systems. We implement procedures to protect our systems, but we cannot guarantee that the procedures we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data and systems are adequate to safeguard against all security breaches. The failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to support, update, expand, and/or integrate these technologies across our subsidiaries could materially and adversely impact our operations, diminish customer confidence and our reputation, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against these risks, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation.

Our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. Security breaches may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or could cause us to become subject to significant litigation, costs, liability, fines, or penalties, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations as well as our reputation with customers, shareholders, and regulators, among others. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such intrusions or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. We may also need to obtain additional insurance coverage related to the threat of such intrusions.

Threats to our systems and operations continue to emerge as new ways to compromise components into our systems or networks are developed. Any operational disruption or environmental repercussions caused by on-going or future threats to our assets and technology systems could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The costs of repairing damage to our facilities, operational disruptions, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may also not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 31 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Advances in technology, and legislation or regulations supporting such technology, could make our electric generating facilities less competitive and may impact the demand for natural gas.

Advances in new technologies that produce or store power or reduce power consumption are ongoing and include renewable energy technologies, customer-oriented generation, energy storage devices, and energy efficiency technologies. We generate power at central station power plants and utility-scale renewable generation facilities to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. Distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, solar cells, and related energy storage devices, have technologically improved and have become more cost competitive than they were in the past. Recently, the PSCW issued a declaratory ruling finding that a third-party financed DER is not a “public utility” under Wisconsin law. A second petition is also being considered. Although the finding in the first petition was limited to the specific facts and circumstances of the lease presented in that petition, similar findings or a broader policy position could adversely impact our business operations.

Recently enacted legislation, including the IRA and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, promotes the construction and cost-effectiveness of renewable energy generation, including distributed generation technologies, for self-supply of electricity by our customers and third parties. This legislation also incentivizes modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect to these distributed generation technologies. Other legislation or regulations could be adopted supporting the use of these technologies at below cost or that permit third-party sales from such facilities, and allow these facilities to interconnect to our distribution system. There is also a risk that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station and utility-scale renewable power production.

We cannot predict the effect that development of alternative energy sources or new technology may have on our natural gas operations, including whether subsidies of alternative energy sources by local, state, and federal governments might be expanded, or what impact this might have on the supply of or the demand for natural gas.

If these technologies become more cost competitive and achieve economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities and natural gas distribution systems could be reduced. Advances in technology, or changes in legislation or regulations, could also change the channels through which our customers purchase or use power and natural gas, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses.

We transport, distribute, and store natural gas, which involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.

Inherent in natural gas distribution and storage activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to us. The location of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject us to litigation and/or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms.

We face risks related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities that could impact our return on investment or have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

The production of wind energy depends heavily on suitable wind conditions, which are variable. If wind conditions are unfavorable or below our estimates, our electricity production, and therefore our revenues and PTCs earned from our non-utility renewable energy facilities, may be substantially below our expectations. We base our decisions about which sites to acquire and operate in part on the findings of long-term wind and other meteorological data and studies conducted in the proposed area, which measure the wind’s speed and prevailing direction and seasonal variations. Actual conditions at these sites, however, may not conform to the measured data in these studies. For example, if there is an increase in frequency and severity of weather conditions, the disruptions to our sites may become more frequent and severe.

For the majority of our non-utility renewable energy operations, we have entered into long-term PPAs with a small number of customers to purchase the energy produced by our facilities. Although initial agreements are often ten years or more, in the future we may not be able to replace expiring PPAs related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities with contracts on acceptable

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 32 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
terms, including at prices that support operation of the facility on a profitable basis. Decreases in the retail prices of electricity supplied by traditional utilities or other clean energy sources in the areas where our non-utility renewable energy facilities are located could harm our ability to offer competitive pricing and could harm our ability to sign PPAs with customers. If we are unable to replace an expiring PPA with an acceptable new revenue contract, we may be required to sell the power produced by the facility at wholesale prices and be exposed to market fluctuations and risks, or the affected site may temporarily or permanently cease operations. If we are unable to replace an expired distributed generation PPA with an acceptable new contract, we may be required to remove the renewable energy facility from the site or, alternatively, we may have to sell the assets, but the sale price may not be sufficient to replace the revenue previously generated by the renewable energy facility.

For some of our PPAs, the net amount paid by our PPA counterparties is impacted by wholesale prices at a market hub location different than the location of our wind farms. Systemic shortfalls and disruptions in transmission capacity can cause congestion between the two locations, which along with other factors, can increase price disparity. This price difference, known as basis risk, can be significant at times. We attempt to mitigate basis risk where possible, but hedging instruments are often not economically feasible or available in the quantities that we require. Basis risk cannot be entirely eliminated and can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our non-utility renewable energy facilities are exposed to risks through participation in the market and transmission structures in various regional power markets. Our ability to acquire new non-utility renewable energy facilities or generate revenue from existing facilities depends on having interconnection arrangements with transmission providers and a reliable electricity grid. We cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate or increase competitive access to those markets.

If a transmission network to which one or more of our facilities is connected experiences down time for system emergencies, force majeure, safety, reliability, maintenance or other operational reasons, we may lose revenues and PTCs and be exposed to non-performance penalties and claims from our customers. This risk of curtailment of our non-utility renewable energy facilities may result in a reduced return on our investments, and we may not be compensated for lost energy and ancillary services. As members of these RTOs, we are also subject to certain additional risks, including the allocation among existing members, of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in these markets and resolution of complaint cases that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by members of these markets. Existing, new, or changed rules of these RTOs could result in significant additional fees and increased costs for participation, including the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in transmission rate design. In addition, these RTOs may assess costs resulting from improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion, and firm transmission rights.

We are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations.

As a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations including, but not limited to, debt service, taxes, and other expenses, as well as pay dividends on our common stock, is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that are not required to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, and general financial condition, as well as regulatory limitations. Prior to distributing cash to us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. In addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay amounts to us depends on any statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual restrictions and limitations applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain specified levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met.

We may fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce.

We operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. These operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. Failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 33 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Our counterparties may fail to meet their obligations, including obligations under power purchase, natural gas supply, natural gas pipeline capacity, and transportation agreements.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform or if capacity is inadequate, we may be required to replace the underlying commitment at current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our customers' electric and natural gas requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. In such event, we may incur losses, and our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected.

We have entered into several power purchase, natural gas supply, natural gas pipeline capacity, and transportation agreements with non-affiliated companies. Revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the counterparties of their obligations under these agreements. Although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more counterparties could fail to perform their obligations. If this were to occur, we generally would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase, natural gas supply, natural gas pipeline capacity, or transportation agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. To the extent these costs are not allowed to be reallocated by our regulators or there is any regulatory delay in adjusting rates, a counterparty default under these agreements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.

Risks Related to Economic and Market Volatility

Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets on competitive terms and rates.

We rely on access to credit and capital markets to support our capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. We have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. In addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity, which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. Interest rates may increase in the future, which may affect our results of operations and the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to earn their approved rates of return. Rising interest rates may also impair our ability to cost-effectively finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt.

Our or our subsidiaries' access to the credit and capital markets could be limited, or our or our subsidiaries' cost of capital significantly increased, due to any of the following risks and uncertainties:

•A rating downgrade;
•Failure to comply with debt covenants;
•An economic downturn or uncertainty;
•Prevailing market conditions and rules;
•Concerns over foreign economic conditions;
•Changes in tax policy;
•Changes in investment criteria of institutional investors or banks, including any policies that would limit or restrict funding for companies with fossil fuel-related investments;
•War or the threat of war;
•The overall health and view of the utility and financial institution industries; and
•The replacement of LIBOR with SOFR or other alternative reference rate.

A portion of our indebtedness provides for interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on LIBOR. LIBOR is the subject of national, international, and other regulatory reform, which is expected to cause LIBOR to cease to exist after June 2023. Various alternative reference rates are being evaluated by market participants, with SOFR being the most widely adopted alternative to date. Although we cannot predict the consequences of transitioning to SOFR or other alternative reference rate, they could include an increase in our interest expense.

If any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and could limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 34 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

A downgrade in our or any of our subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral.

There are a number of factors that impact our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, but not limited to, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. We or any of our subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in ratings if the rating agencies determine that our level of business or financial risk, or that of any of our utilities or the utility industry, has deteriorated. Changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings.

Any downgrade by the rating agencies could:

•Increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities;
•Require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the pool of creditors;
•Decrease funding sources by limiting our or our subsidiaries' access to the commercial paper market;
•Limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries' operations; and
•Trigger collateral requirements in various contracts.

Fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations.

Our operating and liquidity requirements are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services.

Our electric utilities burn natural gas in several of their electric generation plants and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. In many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. The cost of natural gas has increased, and may continue to increase because of disruptions in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution, international market conditions, the demand for natural gas, and the availability of shale gas and potential regulations and/or other government action affecting its accessibility.

For Wisconsin retail electric customers, our utilities bear the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical 2% fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in their respective rate structures. Prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our Michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. Our natural gas utilities receive dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs from their natural gas customers.

Changes in commodity prices could result in:

•Higher working capital requirements, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings;
•Reduced profitability to the extent that lower revenues, increased bad debt, and higher interest expense are not recovered through rates;
•Higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact our competitive position;
•Reduced demand for energy, which could impact revenues and operating expenses; and
•Shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity.

We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities.

We own and operate several coal-fired electric generating units. Although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to protect against an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory levels will be adequate. While we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, we cannot assure that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. Coal deliveries may occasionally be restricted because of rail congestion and maintenance, derailments, weather, public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, and supplier financial hardship. Supplier financial hardship is a result of decreased demand for coal due to increased natural gas and renewable energy generation, the impact of environmental regulations, and environmental concerns related to coal-fired generation.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 35 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
If we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal-fired units, which could lead to increased fuel costs. The increase in fuel costs could result in either reduced margins on net sales into the MISO Energy Markets, a reduction in the volume of net sales into the MISO Energy Markets, and/or an increase in net power purchases in the MISO Energy Markets. There is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.

Our use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses.

We use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards to manage commodity price exposure. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. These risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. In addition, although the hedging programs of our utilities must be approved by the various state commissions, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. Changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.

Restructuring in the regulated energy industry and competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a negative impact on our business and revenues.

The regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. Deregulation or other changes in law in the states where we serve our customers could allow third-party suppliers to contract directly with customers for their natural gas and electric supply requirements. In addition, legislation or regulation that supports distributed energy technologies or that allows third party sales from such technologies could result in further competition. This increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a material adverse financial impact on us.

Certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including Michigan and Illinois, have adopted retail choice. Under Michigan law, our retail electric customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. The law limits customer choice to 10% of our Michigan retail load. The iron ore mine located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan is excluded from this cap. When a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. Although Illinois has adopted retail choice, there is currently little or no impact on the net income of our Illinois utilities as they still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. It is uncertain whether retail choice might be implemented in Wisconsin or Minnesota.

The FERC continues to support the existing RTOs that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these RTOs. In connection with its status as a FERC-approved RTO, MISO implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the MISO Energy Markets. All market participants, including us, must submit day-ahead and/or real time bids and offers for energy at locations across the MISO region. MISO then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes an LMP that reflects the market price for energy. We are required to follow MISO's instructions when dispatching generating units to support MISO's responsibility for maintaining the stability of the transmission system. MISO also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that schedules energy and ancillary services at the same time as part of the energy market, allowing for more efficient use of generation assets in the MISO Energy Markets. These market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the MISO Energy Markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements.

The FERC rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. In addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. Technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. We currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 36 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, changes in assumptions, market conditions, and other factors may impact the performance of our benefit plan holdings and other investment funds.

We have significant obligations related to pension and OPEB plans. If we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. Types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. Plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. In addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. Our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions.

In addition, we maintain rabbi trusts to fund our deferred compensation plans and other investments funds, which from time to time, hold equity and debt investments that are subject to market fluctuations. Decreases in investment performance of these assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

General Risks

We have recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets, including intangible assets, that could become impaired.

We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that would more than likely indicate that the carrying amount of our reporting unit's net assets exceeds the reporting unit's fair value. At December 31, 2022, our goodwill was $3,052.8 million. Other long-lived assets, including intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate that an asset's carrying value may not be recoverable.

If goodwill or other long-lived assets are deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur a non-cash charge to earnings that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.

We may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses.

Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers and our contractors that are required to acquire and maintain insurance for our benefit. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 37 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We own our principal properties outright. However, the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains, and natural gas utility distribution mains and services are located on or under streets and highways, on land owned by others, and are generally subject to granted easements, consents, or permits.

A. REGULATED

Electric Facilities

The following table summarizes information on our electric generation facilities, including owned and jointly owned facilities, as of December 31, 2022:

------------------------------ ------------------- --------------- -------------------------- ------------------ ----- -------
Name Location Fuel Number of Generating Units Capacity In MW (1)
Coal-fired plants
Columbia Portage, WI Coal 2 311 (2)
ERGS Oak Creek, WI Coal 2 1,061 (3) (4)
OCPP Oak Creek, WI Coal 4 1,086
Weston Rothschild, WI Coal 2 720 (2)
Total coal-fired plants 10 3,178
Natural gas-fired plants
Concord Watertown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 366
De Pere Energy Center De Pere, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 165
Fox Energy Center Wrightstown, WI Natural Gas 3 577
Germantown Germantown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 5 273

F. D. Kuester Negaunee, MI Natural Gas 7 132
A. J. Mihm Baraga, MI Natural Gas 3 57
Paris Union Grove, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 359
PWGS Port Washington, WI Natural Gas 2 1,228 (4)
Pulliam Green Bay, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 81
VAPP Milwaukee, WI Natural Gas 2 267
West Marinette Marinette, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 147
Weston Rothschild, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 65
Total natural gas-fired plants 38 3,717 (5)
Renewables
Hydro plants (30 in number) WI and MI Hydro 81 97 (6) (7)
Rothschild Biomass Plant Rothschild, WI Biomass 1 46 (8)
Badger Hollow I WI Solar 41 100 (2)
Two Creeks WI Solar 48 100 (2)
Wind sites (5 in number) WI and IA Wind 350 498 (2)
Total renewables 521 841
Total system 569 7,736

(1)    Capacity for our electric generation facilities, other than wind and solar generating facilities, is based on rated capacity, which is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. Values are primarily based on the net dependable expected capacity ratings for summer 2023 established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. The summer period is the most relevant for capacity planning purposes. This is a result of continually reaching demand peaks in the summer months, primarily due to air conditioning demand. Capacity for wind generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds. Capacity for solar generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the maximum output that a generator should produce at continuous full power.

(2)    Certain of these facilities are jointly owned by WPS and various other utilities. The capacity indicated for each of these units is equal to WPS's portion of total plant capacity based on its percent of ownership.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 38 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•Wisconsin Power and Light Company, an unaffiliated utility, operates the Columbia units. WPS holds a 27.5% ownership interest in Columbia.

•WPS operates the Weston 4 facility and holds a 70.0% ownership interest in this facility. Dairyland Power Cooperative, an unaffiliated energy cooperative, holds the remaining 30.0% interest.

•Badger Hollow I is jointly owned by WPS and Madison Gas and Electric Company, an unaffiliated utility. WPS holds a 66.7% ownership interest in this facility and Madison Gas and Electric Company owns the remaining 33.3%.

•Two Creeks is jointly owned by WPS and Madison Gas and Electric Company. WPS holds a 66.7% ownership interest in this facility and Madison Gas and Electric Company owns the remaining 33.3%.

•Forward Wind is jointly owned by WPS along with Wisconsin Power and Light Company and Madison Gas and Electric Company, two unaffiliated utilities. WPS holds a 44.6% ownership interest in this facility and the unaffiliated utilities collectively own the remaining 55.4%.

(3)    This facility is jointly owned by We Power and two other unaffiliated entities. Our share of capacity is equal to We Power's ownership interest of 83.34%.

(4)    These facilities are part of the Company's non-utility energy infrastructure segment. See B. Non-Utility Energy Infrastructure Segment below.

(5)     Effective January 1, 2023, WE and WPS completed the acquisition of Whitewater, a commercially operational 236.5 MW dual fueled (natural gas and low sulfur fuel oil) combined cycle electrical generation facility in Whitewater, Wisconsin. See Note 15, Leases, for more information. The capacity for Whitewater is not included in this table.

(6)     All of our hydroelectric facilities follow FERC guidelines and/or regulations.

(7)    WRPC owns and operates the Castle Rock and Petenwell units. WPS holds a 50.0% ownership interest in WRPC and is entitled to 50.0% of the total capacity at Castle Rock and Petenwell. WPS's share of capacity for Castle Rock and Petenwell is 7.0 MW and 10.3 MW, respectively.

(8)    WE has a biomass power plant that uses wood waste and wood shavings to produce electric power as well as steam to support the paper mill's operations. Fuel for the power plant is supplied by both the paper mill and through contracts with biomass suppliers. The plant also has the ability to burn natural gas if wood waste and wood shavings are not available.

As of December 31, 2022, we operated approximately 35,600 miles of overhead distribution lines and approximately 36,100 miles of underground distribution cable, as well as approximately 430 electric distribution substations and approximately 514,800 line transformers.

Natural Gas Facilities

At December 31, 2022, our natural gas properties were located in Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Michigan, and consisted of the following:

•Approximately 52,000 miles of natural gas distribution mains,
•Approximately 1,100 miles of natural gas transmission mains,
•Approximately 2.4 million natural gas lateral services,
•Approximately 500 natural gas distribution and transmission gate stations,
•Approximately 68.2 Bcf of working gas capacities in underground natural gas storage fields:
◦Bluewater, 26.5 Bcf of fields located in southeastern Michigan,
◦Manlove, a 38.8 Bcf field located in central Illinois,
◦Partello, a 2.9 Bcf field located in southern Michigan,
•A 2.0 Bcf LNG plant located in central Illinois,
•A peak-shaving facility that can store the equivalent of approximately 80 MDth in liquefied petroleum gas located in Illinois,
•Peak propane air systems providing approximately 2,960 Dth per day, and
•LNG storage plants, located in Wisconsin, with a total send-out capability of 73,600 Dth per day.

Our natural gas distribution and gas storage systems included distribution mains and transmission mains connected to the pipeline transmission systems of Alliance Pipeline, ANR Pipeline Company, Centra Pipelines, Consumers Energy, DTE Gas Company, Enbridge Gas Inc., Great Lakes Transmission Company, Guardian Pipeline L.L.C., Interstate Power and Light Company, Kinder Morgan Illinois Pipeline, Midwestern Gas Pipeline Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Nicor Gas, Northern Border Pipeline Company, Northern Natural Gas Company, Northwest Gas of Cottonwood County, LLC, Northwestern Energy, Panhandle Gas

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 39 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Transmission, SEMCO, Trunkline Gas Pipeline, Vector Pipeline Company, and Viking Gas Transmission. Our LNG storage plants convert and store, in liquefied form, natural gas received during periods of low consumption.

We also own office buildings, natural gas regulating and metering stations, and major service centers, including garage and warehouse facilities, in certain communities we serve. Where distribution lines and services and natural gas distribution mains and services occupy private property, we have in some, but not all instances, obtained consents, permits, or easements for these installations from the apparent owners or those in possession of those properties, generally without an examination of ownership records or title.

Steam Facilities

As of December 31, 2022, the steam system supplied by the VAPP consisted of approximately 40 miles of both high pressure and low pressure steam piping, approximately four miles of walkable tunnels, and other pressure regulating equipment.

General

Substantially all of PGL's and NSG's properties are subject to the lien of the respective company's mortgage indenture for the benefit of bondholders.

B. NON-UTILITY ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE SEGMENT

The non-utility energy infrastructure segment includes We Power, Bluewater, and WECI. We Power and Bluewater are considered non-utility energy infrastructure operations, however, their facilities are shown in the regulated section. We Power owns and leases generating facilities to WE. We Power's share of the ERGS units and both PWGS units are being leased to WE under long-term leases. Bluewater provides natural gas storage and hub services primarily to WE, WPS, and WG, and also provides these same services to several unaffiliated companies. WECI has ownership interests in seven wind generating facilities. For more information on recent and pending wind facility acquisitions, see Note 2, Acquisitions.

The following table summarizes information on WECI's wind generating facilities as of December 31, 2022:

-------------------------------- --------------------------------------- -------------------------- ---------------------------- -------
Name Location Number of Generating Units Nameplate Capacity In MW (1)
Wind generating facilities
Bishop Hill III Henry County, Illinois 53 132.1
Upstream Antelope County, Nebraska 81 202.5
Coyote Ridge Brookings County, South Dakota 39 96.7
Blooming Grove McLean County, Illinois 94 250.0
Tatanka Ridge Deuel County, South Dakota 56 155.0
Jayhawk Bourbon and Crawford Counties, Kansas 70 197.4
Thunderhead Antelope and Wheeler Counties, Nebraska 108 300.0
Total wind generating facilities 501 1,333.7

(1)    Nameplate capacity is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds.

In February 2023, WECI completed the acquisition of a 90% ownership interest in Sapphire Sky, a commercially operational 250 MW wind generating facility in McLean County, Illinois.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The following should be read in conjunction with Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, in this report for additional information on material legal proceedings and matters related to us and our subsidiaries.

In addition to those legal proceedings discussed in Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, Note 26, Regulatory Environment, and below, we are currently, and from time to time, subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the results of these additional legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will not have a material impact on our financial statements.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 40 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Employee Retirement Savings Plan Matter

In May 2022, a putative class action, Munt, et al. v. WEC Energy Group, Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin - Milwaukee Division. The plaintiffs allege that WEC Energy Group, members of its Board of Directors, and others breached their fiduciary duties with respect to the operation and oversight of the Employee Retirement Saving Plan (the “Plan”) in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The class is alleged to be participants in the Plan from May 10, 2016 through the date of judgment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. The Company is vigorously defending against the allegations made in this lawsuit and intends to continue to do so.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 41 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The names, ages, and positions of our executive officers are listed below along with their business experience during the past five years. All officers are appointed until their resignation, death, or removal pursuant to our Bylaws. There are no family relationships among these officers, nor is there any agreement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.

Joshua M. Erickson. Age 50.
•WEC Business Services (a centralized service company of WEC Energy Group) – Vice President and Deputy General Counsel since August 2021. Director-Legal Services – Corporate and Finance from June 2015 through July 2021.

Robert M. Garvin. Age 56.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President - External Affairs since June 2015.
•WEC Business Services (a centralized service company of WEC Energy Group) – Executive Vice President - External Affairs since January 2019.
•WE — Executive Vice President - External Affairs from June 2015 through December 2018.

William J. Guc. Age 53.
•WEC Energy Group — Controller since October 2015. Vice President since June 2015.
•WE — Vice President and Controller since October 2015. Assistant Corporate Secretary since January 2020.

Margaret C. Kelsey. Age 58.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel since January 2018. Executive Vice President from September 2017 to January 2018.
•WE — Executive Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel since January 2018. Director since January 2018.

Gale E. Klappa. Age 72.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Chairman since February 2019. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from October 2017 to February 2019, and from May 2004 to May 2016. Non-Executive Chairman of the Board from May 2016 to October 2017. President from April 2003 to August 2013. Director since December 2003.
•WE — Director since January 2018, and from December 2003 to May 2016. Chairman of the Board from January 2018 to February 2019, and from May 2004 to May 2016. Chief Executive Officer from January 2018 to February 2019, and from August 2003 to May 2016. President from April 2003 to June 2015.

Daniel P. Krueger. Age 57.
•WEC Business Services (a centralized service company of WEC Energy Group) — Executive Vice President - WEC Infrastructure since January 2019. Executive Vice President from November 2018 to January 2019.
•WE — Senior Vice President - Wholesale Energy and Fuels from June 2015 to November 2018.

Scott J. Lauber. Age 57.
•WEC Energy Group — President and Chief Executive Officer since February 1, 2022. Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from June 2020 to January 31, 2022. Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2019 to June 2020. Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from February 2019 to October 2019. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2018 to February 2019. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2016 to October 2018. Director since February 1, 2022.
•WE — Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since February 1, 2022. President since January 1, 2022. Executive Vice President from June 2020 to December 31, 2021. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2019 to June 2020, and from April 2016 to October 2018. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2018 to October 2019. Director since April 2016.

Xia Liu. Age 53.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2020.
•WE — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2020. Director since June 2020.
•CenterPoint Energy, Inc. — Senior Advisor from April 2020 to May 2020. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2019 to April 2020. CenterPoint Energy, Inc. is a public utility holding company whose operating subsidiaries provide electric and natural gas service to customers in parts of the South and Midwest.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 42 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•Georgia Power Company — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2017 to April 2019. Georgia Power Company is a utility subsidiary of The Southern Company that provides electric service to customers throughout Georgia.

William Mastoris. Age 59.
•WEC Business Services (a centralized service company of WEC Energy Group) – Executive Vice President – Customer Service and Operations since December 2021. Vice President – Supply Chain and Fleet from January 2019 through November 2021. Director since November 2021.
•WE – Executive Vice President – Customer Service and Operations since December 2021. Vice President – Supply Chain and Fleet from June 2015 through December 2018. Director since November 2021.

Molly A. Mulroy. Age 47.
•WEC Business Services (a centralized service company of WEC Energy Group) – Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since August 2021. Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2019 through July 2021. Director since November 2021.
•WE – Vice President and Chief Information Officer from June 2015 through December 2018.

Anthony L. Reese. Age 41.
•WEC Energy Group — Vice President and Treasurer since October 2019.
•WE — Vice President and Treasurer since October 2019.
•PGL – Controller - Illinois from September 2015 to September 2019.

Mary Beth Straka. Age 58.
•WEC Energy Group — Senior Vice President - Corporate Communications and Investor Relations since June 2015.

Certain executive officers also hold officer and/or director positions at WEC Energy Group's other significant subsidiaries.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 43 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Number of Common Shareholders

As of December 31, 2022, based upon the number of WEC Energy Group shareholder accounts (including accounts in our stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan), we had approximately 37,000 registered shareholders.

Common Stock Listing and Trading

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "WEC."

Common Stock Dividends of WEC Energy Group

We review our dividend policy on a regular basis. Subject to any regulatory restrictions or other limitations on the payment of dividends, future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other factors, earnings, financial condition, and other requirements. For more information on our dividends, including restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends, see Note 11, Common Equity.

ITEM 6. RESERVED

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 44 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS

Introduction

We are a diversified holding company with natural gas and electric utility operations (serving customers in Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, and Minnesota), an approximately 60% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company LLC (ATC) (a for-profit electric transmission company regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and certain state regulatory commissions), and non-utility energy infrastructure operations through W.E. Power LLC (which owns generation assets in Wisconsin), Bluewater Natural Gas Holding LLC (which owns underground natural gas storage facilities in Michigan), and WEC Infrastructure LLC (WECI), which holds ownership interests in several renewable generating facilities.

Corporate Strategy

Our goal is to continue to build and sustain long-term value for our shareholders and customers by focusing on the fundamentals of our business: environmental stewardship; reliability; operating efficiency; financial discipline; exceptional customer care; and safety. Our capital investment plan for efficiency, sustainability and growth, referred to as our ESG Progress Plan, provides a roadmap for us to achieve this goal. It is an aggressive plan to cut emissions, maintain superior reliability, deliver significant savings for customers, and grow our investment in the future of energy.

Throughout our strategic planning process, we take into account important developments, risks and opportunities, including new technologies, customer preferences and affordability, energy resiliency efforts, and sustainability. We published the results of a priority sustainability issue assessment in 2020, identifying the issues that are most important to our company and its stakeholders over the short and long terms. Our risk and priority assessments have formed our direction as a company.

Creating a Sustainable Future

Our ESG Progress Plan includes the retirement of older, fossil-fueled generation, to be replaced with zero-carbon-emitting renewables and clean natural gas-fired generation. When taken together, the retirements and new investments should better balance our supply with our demand, while maintaining reliable, affordable energy for our customers. The retirements will contribute to meeting our goals to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from our electric generation.

In May 2021, we announced goals to achieve reductions in carbon emissions from our electric generation fleet by 60% by the end of 2025 and by 80% by the end of 2030, both from a 2005 baseline. We expect to achieve these goals by making operating refinements, retiring less efficient generating units, and executing our capital plan. Over the longer term, the target for our generation fleet is net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050.

As part of our path toward these goals, we are exploring co-firing with natural gas at our ERGS coal-fired units. By the end of 2030, we expect to use coal as a backup fuel only, and we believe we will be in a position to eliminate coal as an energy source by the end of 2035.

We already have retired more than 1,800 megawatts (MW) of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018, which included the 2019 retirement of the Presque Isle power plant as well as the 2018 retirements of the Pleasant Prairie power plant, the Pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned Edgewater Unit 4 generating units. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, for more information related to these power plant retirements. Through our ESG Progress Plan, we expect to retire approximately 1,600 MW of additional fossil-fueled generation by the end of 2026, which includes the planned retirement in 2024-2025 of Oak Creek Power Plant Units 5-8 and the planned retirement in 2026 of jointly-owned Columbia Units 1-2. See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information related to these planned power plant retirements.

In addition to retiring these older, fossil-fueled plants, we expect to invest approximately $5.4 billion from 2023-2027 in regulated renewable energy in Wisconsin. Our plan is to replace a portion of the retired capacity by building and owning zero-carbon-emitting renewable generation facilities that are anticipated to include the following new investments:

•1,900 MW of utility-scale solar;
•700 MW of battery storage; and

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 45 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•700 MW of wind.

We also plan on investing in a combination of clean, natural gas-fired generation, including:

•100 MW of reciprocating internal combustion engine (RICE) natural gas-fueled generation; and
•the planned purchase of up to 200 MW of capacity in the West Riverside Energy Center – a combined cycle natural gas plant recently completed by Alliant Energy in Wisconsin.

For more details, see Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements – Significant Capital Projects.

In December 2018, WE received approval from the PSCW for two renewable energy pilot programs. The Solar Now pilot is expected to add a total of 35 MW of solar generation to WE's portfolio, allowing non-profit and governmental entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers, to site utility owned solar arrays on their property. Under this program, WE has energized 24 Solar Now projects and currently has another five under construction, together totaling more than 30 MW. The second program, the Dedicated Renewable Energy Resource (DRER) pilot, would allow large commercial and industrial customers to access renewable resources that WE would operate, adding up to 150 MW of renewables to WE's portfolio. The DRER pilot would help these larger customers meet their sustainability and renewable energy goals.

In August 2021, the PSCW approved pilot programs for WE and WPS to install and maintain electric vehicle (EV) charging equipment for customers at their homes or businesses. The programs provide direct benefits to customers by removing cost barriers associated with installing EV equipment. In October 2021, subject to the receipt of any necessary regulatory approvals, we pledged to expand the EV charging network within the service territories of our electric utilities. In doing so, we joined a coalition of utility companies in a unified effort to make EV charging convenient and widely available throughout the Midwest. The coalition we joined is planning to help build and grow EV charging corridors, enabling the general public to safely and efficiently charge their vehicles.

We also continue to reduce methane emissions by improving our natural gas distribution system. We set a target across our natural gas distribution operations to achieve net-zero methane emissions by the end of 2030. We plan to achieve our net-zero goal through an effort that includes both continuous operational improvements and equipment upgrades, as well as the use of renewable natural gas (RNG) throughout our utility systems. In 2022, we received approval from the PSCW for our RNG pilots. We have since signed our first five contracts for RNG for our natural gas distribution business, which will be transporting the output of local dairy farms onto our gas distribution system. The RNG supplied will directly replace higher-emission methane from natural gas that would have entered our pipes. Our first five contracts bring us to a total of 1 Bcf of RNG planned to enter our system. We expect to have RNG flowing to our distribution network in 2023, supporting our goal to reduce methane emissions.

As part of our effort to look for new opportunities in sustainable energy, during 2022 we completed testing the effects of blending hydrogen, a clean generating fuel, with natural gas at one of our RICE generating units in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. We partnered with the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) in this research that could help create another viable option for decarbonizing the economy. We are still evaluating the data; however, our initial findings indicate that all project measures exceeded our expectations. The results of this testing continue to be analyzed and will be shared more broadly when complete.

In 2023, we are planning a pilot program with EPRI and CMBlu Energy, a Germany-based designer and manufacturer, to test a new form of long-duration energy storage on the U.S. electric grid. The program will test battery system performance, including the ability to store and discharge energy for up to twice as long as the typical lithium-ion batteries in use today. The pilot is planned for the fourth-quarter of 2023.

Reliability

We have made significant reliability-related investments in recent years, and in accordance with our ESG Progress Plan, expect to continue strengthening and modernizing our generation fleet, as well as our electric and natural gas distribution networks to further improve reliability.

Below are a few examples of reliability projects that are proposed, currently underway, or recently completed.

•WE and Wisconsin Gas LLC (WG) have received approval to each construct their own liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility to meet anticipated peak demand. Commercial operation of the WE and WG LNG facilities is targeted for the end of 2023 and 2024, respectively.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 46 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

•The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company continues to work on its Safety Modernization Program, which primarily involves replacing old iron pipes and facilities in Chicago’s natural gas delivery system with modern polyethylene pipes to reinforce the long-term safety and reliability of the system.

•Our utilities continue to upgrade their electric and natural gas distribution systems to enhance reliability.

We expect to spend approximately $3.6 billion from 2023 to 2027 on reliability related projects with continued investment over the next decade. For more details, see Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements – Significant Capital Projects.

Operating Efficiency

We continually look for ways to optimize the operating efficiency of our company and will continue to do so under the ESG Progress Plan. For example, we are making progress on our Advanced Metering Infrastructure program, replacing aging meter-reading equipment on both our network and customer property. An integrated system of smart meters, communication networks, and data management programs enables two-way communication between our utilities and our customers. This program reduces the manual effort for disconnects and reconnects and enhances outage management capabilities.

We continue to focus on integrating the resources of all our businesses and finding the best and most efficient processes.

Financial Discipline

A strong adherence to financial discipline is essential to meeting our earnings projections and maintaining a strong balance sheet, stable cash flows, a growing dividend, and quality credit ratings.

We follow an asset management strategy that focuses on investing in and acquiring assets consistent with our strategic plans, as well as disposing of assets, including property, plants, equipment, and entire business units, that are no longer strategic to operations, are not performing as intended, or have an unacceptable risk profile. See Note 3, Dispositions, for information on recent transactions.

Our investment focus remains in our regulated utility and non-utility energy infrastructure businesses, as well as our investment in ATC. In our non-utility energy infrastructure segment, we have acquired or agreed to acquire majority interests in eight wind parks and two solar parks, with total available capacity of more than 2,000 MW. These renewable energy assets represent more than $2.9 billion in committed investments and have long-term agreements to serve customers outside our traditional service areas. Production tax credits from these renewable investments reduce our cash tax expense. In addition, we anticipate that credits generated in 2023 and beyond will be eligible to be transferred to third parties in exchange for cash. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for information on recent and pending transactions.

We expect total capital expenditures for our regulated utility and non-utility energy infrastructure businesses to be approximately $18.1 billion from 2023 to 2027. In addition, we currently forecast that our share of ATC's projected capital expenditures over the next five years will be approximately $2.0 billion. Specific projects included in the $20.1 billion ESG Progress Plan are discussed in more detail below under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements – Significant Capital Projects.

Exceptional Customer Care

Our approach is driven by an intense focus on delivering exceptional customer care every day. We strive to provide the best value for our customers by demonstrating personal responsibility for results, leveraging our capabilities and expertise, and using creative solutions to meet or exceed our customers’ expectations.

A multiyear effort is driving a standardized, seamless approach to digital customer service across our companies. We have moved all utilities to a common platform for all customer-facing self-service options. Using common systems and processes reduces costs, provides greater flexibility and enhances the consistent delivery of exceptional service to customers.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 47 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Safety

Safety is one of our core values and a critical component of our culture. We are committed to keeping our employees and the public safe through a comprehensive corporate safety program that focuses on employee engagement and elimination of at-risk behaviors.

Under our "Target Zero" mission, we have an ultimate goal of zero incidents, accidents, and injuries. Management and union leadership work together to reinforce the Target Zero culture. We set annual goals for safety results as well as measurable leading indicators, in order to raise awareness of at-risk behaviors and situations and guide injury-prevention activities. All employees are encouraged to report unsafe conditions or incidents that could have led to an injury. Injuries and tasks with high levels of risk are assessed, and findings and best practices are shared across our companies.

Our corporate safety program provides a forum for addressing employee concerns, training employees and contractors on current safety standards, and recognizing those who demonstrate a safety focus.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations includes comparisons of our results for the year ended December 31, 2022 with the year ended December 31, 2021. For a similar discussion that compares our results for the year ended December 31, 2021 with the year ended December 31, 2020, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations in Part II of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on February 24, 2022.

Consolidated Earnings

The following table compares our consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2022 with the year ended December 31, 2021, including favorable or better, "B," and unfavorable or worse, "W," variances:

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------- ---- ------ - ------- ----- ------ - -----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 B (W)
Wisconsin $ 758.4 $ 706.5 $ 51.9
Illinois 226.9 223.0 3.9
Other states 39.7 35.8 3.9
Electric transmission 129.5 106.3 23.2
Non-utility energy infrastructure 324.4 279.2 45.2
Corporate and other (70.8) (50.5) (20.3)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 1,408.1 $ 1,300.3 $ 107.8

Diluted earnings per share $ 4.45 $ 4.11 $ 0.34

Earnings increased $107.8 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The significant factors impacting the $107.8 million increase in earnings were:

•A $51.9 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the Wisconsin segment, driven by lower operation and maintenance expense, largely due to the amortization of certain regulatory liabilities to offset a portion of our 2022 forecasted revenue deficiencies. The amortization was approved by the PSCW in order to forego filing for 2022 base rate increases. An increase in natural gas margins related to higher retail sales volumes, as well as higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs, also contributed to the increase in earnings. These increases in earnings were partially offset by a negative year-over-year impact from collections of fuel and purchased power costs, higher property and revenue taxes, and higher depreciation and amortization.

•A $45.2 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment, driven by an increase in PTCs during 2022, primarily due to the Jayhawk wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2021, higher generation at our other wind parks, and an increase in the PTC rate related to the PTC inflation adjustment issued by the IRS. In addition, Upstream recognized revenue during 2022 related to market settlements it received from SPP in February 2021. Due to a complaint filed with the FERC, the revenue related to these settlements could not be recognized until the FERC issued an order denying the complaint in the first quarter of 2022. A positive impact from a sharing

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 48 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
arrangement with one of our Blooming Grove customers, resulting from strong energy prices, also contributed to the increase in earnings.

•A $23.2 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the electric transmission segment, primarily due to the impact of the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals opinion issued in August 2022 addressing complaints related to ATC's ROE and the year-over-year impact of a goodwill impairment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2021.

These increases in earnings were partially offset by a $20.3 million increase in the net loss attributed to common shareholders at the corporate and other segment, driven by net losses from the investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2022, compared with net gains during 2021. The gains and losses from the investments held in the rabbi trust partially offset the changes in benefit costs related to deferred compensation, which are included in other operation and maintenance expense in our operating segments. See Note 17, Fair Value Measurements, for more information on our investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust. A decrease in earnings from our equity method investments in technology and energy-focused investment funds and higher interest expense also contributed to the higher net loss. Partially offsetting these negative impacts was the year-over-year impact from the loss on debt extinguishment recorded in 2021.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The discussions below address the contribution of each of our segments to net income attributed to common shareholders. The discussions include financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as electric margins and natural gas margins, which are not measures of financial performance under GAAP. Electric margins (electric revenues less fuel and purchased power costs) and natural gas margins (natural gas revenues less cost of natural gas sold) are non-GAAP financial measures because they exclude other operation and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes.

We believe that electric and natural gas margins provide a useful basis for evaluating utility operations since the majority of prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs, as well as prudently incurred natural gas costs, are passed through to customers in current rates. As a result, management uses electric and natural gas margins internally when assessing the operating performance of our segments as these measures exclude the majority of revenue fluctuations caused by changes in these expenses. Similarly, the presentation of electric and natural gas margins herein is intended to provide supplemental information for investors regarding our operating performance.

Our electric margins and natural gas margins may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. Furthermore, these measures are not intended to replace operating income as determined in accordance with GAAP as an indicator of operating performance. The following table shows operating income by segment for our utility operations during years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021:

------------- ---------------------- ------- ---- ----- - -------
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021
Wisconsin $ 1,463.1 $ 1,309.3
Illinois 369.7 361.6
Other states 64.2 52.4

Each applicable segment discussion below includes a table that provides the calculation of electric margins and natural gas margins, as applicable, along with a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, operating income.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 49 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Wisconsin Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The Wisconsin segment's contribution to net income attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $758.4 million, representing a $51.9 million, or 7.3%, increase over the prior year. The increase in earnings was driven by lower operation and maintenance expense, largely due to the amortization of certain regulatory liabilities to offset a portion of our 2022 forecasted revenue deficiencies. The amortization was approved by the PSCW in order to forego filing for 2022 base rate increases. An increase in natural gas margins related to higher retail sales volumes, as well as higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs, also contributed to the increase in earnings. These increases in earnings were partially offset by a negative year-over-year impact from collections of fuel and purchased power costs, higher property and revenue taxes, and higher depreciation and amortization.

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------- ---- ------- - ------- ----- ------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Electric revenues $ 4,971.8 $ 4,538.6 $ 433.2
Fuel and purchased power 1,881.4 1,488.2 (393.2)
Total electric margins 3,090.4 3,050.4 40.0

Natural gas revenues 1,988.7 1,498.4 490.3
Cost of natural gas sold 1,327.4 906.5 (420.9)
Total natural gas margins 661.3 591.9 69.4

Total electric and natural gas margins 3,751.7 3,642.3 109.4

Other operation and maintenance 1,351.3 1,455.2 103.9
Depreciation and amortization 754.7 726.9 (27.8)
Property and revenue taxes 182.6 150.9 (31.7)
Operating income 1,463.1 1,309.3 153.8

Other income, net 99.9 73.9 26.0
Interest expense 555.9 555.6 (0.3)
Income before income taxes 1,007.1 827.6 179.5

Income tax expense 247.5 119.9 (127.6)
Preferred stock dividends of subsidiary 1.2 1.2 —
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 758.4 $ 706.5 $ 51.9

The following table shows a breakdown of other operation and maintenance:

------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ------- ---- ----- - ------- ----- ------ - -----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operation and maintenance not included in line items below $ 655.8 $ 671.2 $ 15.4
Transmission (1) 430.9 511.1 80.2
Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses (2) 145.5 141.6 (3.9)
We Power (3) 108.1 114.9 6.8
Earnings sharing mechanisms (4) (13.5) 5.8 19.3
Other 24.5 10.6 (13.9)
Total other operation and maintenance $ 1,351.3 $ 1,455.2 $ 103.9

(1)    Represents transmission expense that our electric utilities are authorized to collect in rates. The PSCW has approved escrow accounting for ATC and MISO network transmission expenses for WE and WPS. As a result, WE and WPS defer as a regulatory asset or liability, the difference between actual transmission costs and those included in rates until recovery or refund is authorized in a future rate proceeding. During 2022 and 2021, $516.7 million and $503.6 million, respectively, of costs were billed to our electric utilities by transmission providers.

During 2022, WE and WPS amortized $81.0 million of the regulatory liabilities associated with their transmission escrows to offset certain 2022 revenue deficiencies, as approved by the PSCW in order to forego filing for 2022 base rate increases. This amortization drove the decrease in transmission expense during 2022, compared with 2021.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 50 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
(2)    Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses are substantially offset in margins and therefore do not have a significant impact on net income.

(3)    Represents costs associated with the We Power generation units, including operating and maintenance costs recognized by WE. During 2022 and 2021, $121.7 million and $113.1 million, respectively, of costs were billed to or incurred by WE related to the We Power generation units, with the difference in costs billed or incurred and expenses recognized, either deferred or deducted from the regulatory asset.

(4)    Represents operation and maintenance associated with the earnings mechanisms we have in place. In 2022, also includes $21.6 million of amortization related to a certain portion of WPS's regulatory liability associated with its 2020 earnings sharing mechanism to offset certain 2022 revenue deficiencies, as approved by the PSCW in order to forego filing for 2022 base rate increases. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

The following tables provide information on delivered sales volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ---- -------- ----- ---------
 Year Ended December 31

Electric Sales Volumes (MWh - in thousands) 2022 2021 B (W)
Customer class
Residential 11,372.6 11,460.1 (87.5)
Small commercial and industrial (1) 12,867.1 12,785.1 82.0
Large commercial and industrial (1) 12,181.6 12,406.4 (224.8)
Other 139.0 147.6 (8.6)
Total retail (1) 36,560.3 36,799.2 (238.9)
Wholesale 2,444.7 2,862.5 (417.8)
Resale 3,962.8 4,869.2 (906.4)
Total sales in MWh (1) 42,967.8 44,530.9 (1,563.1)

(1)    Includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in Michigan.

------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---- ------- ----- -----
 Year Ended December 31

Natural Gas Sales Volumes (Therms - in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Customer class
Residential 1,189.6 1,036.7 152.9
Commercial and industrial 746.6 634.0 112.6
Total retail 1,936.2 1,670.7 265.5
Transportation 1,438.1 1,392.6 45.5
Total sales in therms 3,374.3 3,063.3 311.0

---------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- ----- ------ -
 Year Ended December 31

Weather (Degree Days) 2022 2021 B (W)
WE and WG (1)
Heating (6,518 Normal) 6,369 5,735 11.1 %
Cooling (774 Normal) 944 1,061 (11.0) %

WPS (2)
Heating (7,360 Normal) 7,387 6,735 9.7 %
Cooling (538 Normal) 718 643 11.7 %

UMERC (3)
Heating (8,387 Normal) 8,643 7,744 11.6 %
Cooling (344 Normal) 358 428 (16.4) %

(1)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

(2)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from the Green Bay, Wisconsin weather station.

(3)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from the Iron Mountain, Michigan weather station.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 51 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Electric Revenues

Electric revenues increased $433.2 million during 2022, compared with 2021. To the extent that changes in fuel and purchased power costs are passed through to customers, the changes are offset by comparable changes in revenues. See the discussion of electric utility margins below for more information related to recovery of fuel and purchased power costs and the remaining drivers of the changes in electric revenues.

Electric Utility Margins

Electric utility margins at the Wisconsin segment increased $40.0 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The significant factors impacting the higher electric utility margins were:

•A $103.5 million increase in margins related to the impact of unprotected excess deferred taxes during 2021, which we agreed to return to customers in our PSCW-approved rate orders. This increase in margins is offset in income taxes. See Note 16, Income Taxes, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•A $9.6 million increase in other revenues, primarily related to third-party use of our assets.

These increases in margins were partially offset by:

•A $50.8 million year-over-year negative impact from collections of fuel and purchased power costs compared with costs collected in rates. Under the Wisconsin fuel rules, the margins of our electric utilities are impacted by under- or over-collections of certain fuel and purchased power costs that are within a 2% price variance from the costs included in rates, and the remaining variance beyond the 2% price variance is generally deferred for future recovery or refund to customers. As a result of the higher fuel costs in both 2021 and 2022, WPS was unable to defer a portion of its under-collected fuel and purchased power costs due to earning an ROE in excess of the PSCW authorized amount.

•Lower margins of $14.9 million driven by the expiration of certain wholesale contracts.

•An $8.4 million net decrease in margins related to lower sales volumes, driven by the impact of cooler weather during the 2022 cooling season, compared with 2021. As measured by cooling degree days, 2022 was 11.0% cooler than 2021 in the Milwaukee area.

Natural Gas Revenues

Natural gas revenues increased $490.3 million during 2022, compared with 2021. Because prudently incurred natural gas costs are passed through to our customers in current rates, the changes are offset by comparable changes in revenues. The average per-unit cost of natural gas increased approximately 27% during 2022, compared with 2021. The remaining drivers of changes in natural gas revenues are described in the discussion of natural gas utility margins below.

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins at the Wisconsin segment increased $69.4 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The most significant factors impacting the higher natural gas utility margins were:

•A $59.7 million increase in margins from higher sales volumes, driven by the continued economic recovery in Wisconsin from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as colder weather during the 2022 heating season, compared with 2021. As measured by heating degree days, 2022 was 11.1% and 9.7% colder than 2021 in the Milwaukee area and Green Bay area, respectively.

•A $9.9 million increase in margins related to the amortization of a certain portion of WG's regulatory liability consisting of credit balances associated with the escrow of natural gas storage service costs from Bluewater Gas Storage. In September 2021, the PSCW issued a written order for our Wisconsin utilities approving certain accounting treatments to offset certain 2022 revenue deficiencies in order to forego filing for 2022 base rate increases. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 52 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the Wisconsin segment decreased $44.4 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The significant factors impacting the decrease in other operating expenses were:

•An $80.2 million decrease in transmission expense driven by the amortization of a certain portion of WE's and WPS's regulatory liabilities associated with transmission escrow balances, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

•A $19.3 million decrease in expense related to the earnings sharing mechanisms in place at our Wisconsin utilities, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•A $14.5 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense due to increases to certain regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2022 Wisconsin rate orders.

•An $8.6 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense during 2022, compared with 2021, related to certain COVID-19 expenditures.

•A $6.8 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense related to the We Power leases, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

•A $3.1 million decrease in other operating and maintenance expense related to our power plants, driven by increases to certain plant-related regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2022 Wisconsin rate orders. This decrease in expense was partially offset by increased maintenance at our plants, including a planned outage at the Weston power plant, and reductions in refined coal credits during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $2.8 million decrease in expense related to higher gains on land sales during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $2.4 million decrease in expense related to charitable projects supporting our customers and the communities within our service territories.

These decreases in other operating expenses were partially offset by:

•A $31.7 million increase in property and revenue taxes, driven by higher gross receipt and property taxes.

•A $29.3 million increase in electric and natural gas distribution expenses, primarily driven by higher costs to manage system reliability, for storm restoration, and for overall maintenance of our distribution system during 2022.

•A $27.8 million net increase in depreciation and amortization, driven by assets being placed into service as we continue to execute on our capital plan and an increase related to the We Power leases. These increases were partially offset by $10.2 million of deferred depreciation related to capital investments made by WG since it's last rate case, as approved by the PSCW in an order that allowed our Wisconsin utilities to offset certain 2022 revenue deficiencies in order to forego filing for 2022 base rate increases.

•A $3.9 million increase in regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the Wisconsin segment increased $26.0 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs. Higher AFUDC–Equity due to continued capital investment also contributed to the increase in other income, net.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 53 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Wisconsin segment increased $0.3 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The increase was primarily driven by WE and WPS issuing long-term debt during the third and fourth quarters of 2022, respectively. Also driving the increase was an increase to short-term debt interest rates. These increases were partially offset by the deferral of interest expense related to capital investments made by WG since its last rate case, as approved by the PSCW in an order that allowed our Wisconsin utilities to offset certain 2022 revenue deficiencies in order to forego filing for a 2022 base rate increase. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information. Also offsetting the increases was lower interest expense on finance lease liabilities, primarily related to the We Power leases, as finance lease liabilities decrease each year as payments are made. Higher AFUDC–Debt due to continued capital investment also contributed to offsetting the increases.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Wisconsin segment increased $127.6 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The increase was primarily due to an approximate $100 million negative impact related to the lower year-over-year amortization of the unprotected excess deferred tax benefits from the Tax Legislation in connection with the Wisconsin rate orders approved by the PSCW, effective January 1, 2020. The impact due to the benefit from the amortization of these unprotected excess deferred tax benefits in 2021 did not impact earnings as there was an offsetting impact in operating income. Also contributing to the increase was higher pre-tax income in 2022. See Note 16, Income Taxes, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

Illinois Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The Illinois segment's contribution to net income attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $226.9 million, representing a $3.9 million, or 1.7%, increase over the prior year. The increase was driven by a gain on the sale of certain real estate in Chicago, as well as higher natural gas margins due to PGL's continued capital investment in the SMP project under its QIP rider and NSG's rate increase, effective September 15, 2021. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in various operating expenses, as discussed below.

Since the majority of PGL and NSG customers use natural gas for heating, net income attributed to common shareholders is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months.

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------- ---- ------- - ------- ----- ------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Natural gas revenues $ 1,890.9 $ 1,672.8 $ 218.1
Cost of natural gas sold 792.5 628.4 (164.1)
Total natural gas margins 1,098.4 1,044.4 54.0

Other operation and maintenance 459.2 433.5 (25.7)
Depreciation and amortization 230.9 218.1 (12.8)
Property and revenue taxes 38.6 31.2 (7.4)
Operating income 369.7 361.6 8.1

Other income, net 14.1 7.3 6.8
Interest expense 73.8 66.6 (7.2)
Income before income taxes 310.0 302.3 7.7

Income tax expense 83.1 79.3 (3.8)

Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 226.9 $ 223.0 $ 3.9

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 54 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
The following table shows a breakdown of other operation and maintenance:

-------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- - ----- ----- ------ - ------
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operation and maintenance not included in the line items below $ 319.4 $ 320.3 $ 0.9
Riders (1) 127.2 112.1 (15.1)
Regulatory amortizations (1) (2.4) (1.5) 0.9
Other 15.0 2.6 (12.4)
Total other operation and maintenance $ 459.2 $ 433.5 $ (25.7)

(1)    These riders and regulatory amortizations are substantially offset in margins and therefore do not have a significant impact on net income.

The following tables provide information on delivered sales volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---- ------- ----- -----
 Year Ended December 31

Natural Gas Sales Volumes (Therms - in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Customer Class
Residential 907.0 819.2 87.8
Commercial and industrial 353.7 319.5 34.2
Total retail 1,260.7 1,138.7 122.0
Transportation 839.5 760.1 79.4
Total sales in therms 2,100.2 1,898.8 201.4

------------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- ----- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31

Weather (Degree Days) (1) 2022 2021 B (W)
Heating (5,993 Normal) 6,140 5,468 12.3 %

(1)    Normal heating degree days are based on a 12-year moving average of monthly temperatures from Chicago's O'Hare Airport.

Natural Gas Revenues

Natural gas revenues increased $218.1 million during 2022, compared with 2021. Because prudently incurred natural gas costs are passed through to our customers in current rates, the changes are offset by comparable changes in revenues. The average per-unit cost of natural gas sold increased approximately 14% during 2022, compared with 2021. The remaining drivers of changes in natural gas revenues are described in the discussion of margins below.

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins at the Illinois segment, net of the $15.1 million impact of the riders referenced in the table above, increased $38.9 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The increase in margins was primarily driven by:

•A $24.9 million increase in revenues at PGL due to continued capital investment in the SMP project. PGL recovers the costs related to the SMP through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an ICC approved QIP rider, which is in effect through 2023. For information on the QIP rider and PGL's plan to recover these costs after 2023, see Note 26, Regulatory Environment.

•An $8.0 million increase related to the impact of the NSG rate order approved by the ICC, effective September 15, 2021, which includes the Variable Income Tax Adjustment Rider in base rates. The Variable Income Tax Adjustment Rider recovers or refunds changes in actual income tax expense resulting from changes in income tax rates and amortization of deferred taxes, which differ from amounts included in rates. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on NSG's rate order.

•A $5.0 million increase in the invested capital tax adjustment rider, which did not impact net income as it was offset in property and revenue taxes. The invested capital tax adjustment rider is a mechanism that allows PGL and NSG to recover or refund the difference between the cost of invested capital tax incurred and the amount collected through base rates.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 55 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the Illinois segment increased $30.8 million, net of the $15.1 million impact of the riders referenced in the table above, during 2022, compared with 2021. The significant factors impacting the increase in operating expenses were:

•A $22.4 million increase in expenses related to charitable projects supporting our customers and the communities within our service territories.

•A $12.8 million increase in depreciation and amortization, primarily driven by PGL's continued capital investment in the SMP project.

•A $12.7 million increase in natural gas distribution and maintenance costs, primarily related to maintaining the natural gas infrastructure, including costs associated with PGL's gas storage field.

•An $11.4 million increase in expenses associated with the settlement of legal claims.

•A $9.8 million increase in benefit costs, primarily due to higher pension and stock-based compensation costs.

•A $7.4 million increase in property and revenue taxes, primarily driven by an increase in the invested capital tax related to continued capital investment. This increase was offset in natural gas utility margins.

•A $6.9 million increase in customer service expense, primarily driven by higher call volumes.

These increases in operating expenses were partially offset by a $54.5 million pre-tax gain on the sale of certain real estate in Chicago. See Note 3, Dispositions, for more information.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the Illinois segment increased $6.8 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Illinois segment increased $7.2 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven primarily by $225.0 million and $100.0 million of long-term debt issuances in November 2021 and December 2022, respectively, and increased short-term debt interest rates.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Illinois segment increased $3.8 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by an increase in pre-tax income and a $1.3 million negative impact associated with previously unrecognized tax benefits recorded in 2021. See Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

Other States Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The other states segment's contribution to net income attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $39.7 million, representing a $3.9 million, or 10.9%, increase over the prior year. The increase was driven by higher natural gas margins due to a rate increase at MGU, effective January 1, 2022, and higher sales volumes during 2022, compared with 2021. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in operating expenses, as well as interest expense, as discussed below.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 56 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Since the majority of MERC and MGU customers use natural gas for heating, net income attributed to common shareholders is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months.

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- - ----- ----- ------ - ----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Natural gas revenues $ 618.5 $ 519.0 $ 99.5
Cost of natural gas sold 391.6 319.3 (72.3)
Total natural gas margins 226.9 199.7 27.2

Other operation and maintenance 98.5 90.4 (8.1)
Depreciation and amortization 40.9 38.1 (2.8)
Property and revenue taxes 23.3 18.8 (4.5)
Operating income 64.2 52.4 11.8

Other income, net 2.5 1.1 1.4
Interest expense 13.9 6.2 (7.7)
Income before income taxes 52.8 47.3 5.5

Income tax expense 13.1 11.5 (1.6)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 39.7 $ 35.8 $ 3.9

The following table shows a breakdown of other operation and maintenance:

------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---- ---- ---- - ---- ----- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operation and maintenance not included in line items below $ 77.8 $ 70.5 $ (7.3)
Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses (1) 20.7 19.8 (0.9)
Other — 0.1 0.1
Total other operation and maintenance $ 98.5 $ 90.4 $ (8.1)

(1)    Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses are substantially offset in margins and therefore do not have a significant impact on net income.

The following tables provide information on delivered sales volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---- ------- ----- -----
 Year Ended December 31

Natural Gas Sales Volumes (Therms - in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Customer Class
Residential 353.1 301.1 52.0
Commercial and industrial 227.6 188.5 39.1
Total retail 580.7 489.6 91.1
Transportation 794.8 801.6 (6.8)
Total sales in therms 1,375.5 1,291.2 84.3

------------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- ----- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31

Weather (Degree Days) (1) 2022 2021 B (W)
MERC
Heating (7,973 Normal) 8,585 7,440 15.4 %

MGU
Heating (6,177 Normal) 6,277 5,755 9.1 %

(1)    Normal heating degree days for MERC and MGU are based on a 20-year moving average and 15-year moving average, respectively, of monthly temperatures from various weather stations throughout their respective territories.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 57 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Natural Gas Revenues

Natural gas revenues increased $99.5 million during 2022, compared with 2021. Because prudently incurred natural gas costs are passed through to our customers in current rates, the changes are offset by comparable changes in revenues. The average per-unit cost of natural gas sold increased approximately 4.0% during 2022, compared with 2021. The remaining drivers of changes in natural gas revenues are described in the discussion of margins below.

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins increased $27.2 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The increase in margins was primarily driven by:

•A $13.0 million increase related to the new rates at MGU that went into effect in 2022. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•A $9.3 million increase related to higher sales volumes due to both continued economic recovery and colder weather during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $2.6 million increase related to MERC's GUIC rider, which was in place through December 31, 2022. The GUIC rider allowed MERC to recover previously approved GUIC incurred to replace or modify natural gas facilities to the extent the work is required by state, federal, or other government agencies and exceeds the costs included in base rates.

•A $1.2 million increase related to MERC CIP revenue, which was offset in operation and maintenance expense. Rebates and programs are available to residential and commercial customers of MERC through the CIP, which is funded by rate payers using the Conservation Cost Recovery Charge and the Conservation Cost Recovery Adjustment funds that are collected on their monthly billing statements.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the other states segment increased $15.4 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The significant factors impacting the increase in operating expenses were:

•A $7.9 million increase in natural gas operations and customer service expense, primarily driven by various operation and maintenance projects approved in MGU's rate case and an increase in costs related to safety and reliability programs at MERC.

•A $4.5 million increase in property and revenue taxes, driven by higher use tax at MGU.

•A $2.8 million increase in depreciation and amortization related to continued capital investment.

•A $1.2 million increase in operation and maintenance expense due to MERC's CIP program, which has an offsetting increase in margins.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the other states segment increased $1.4 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the other states segment increased $7.7 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven primarily by the deferral of $4.9 million of interest expense during 2021, as approved by the MPSC to mitigate the impacts from delaying the filing of
MGU's 2021 rate case. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for additional information. This deferred interest expense is now being amortized over a four-year period as a result of MGU's approved rate increase.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 58 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the other states segment increased $1.6 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by an increase in pre-tax income.

Electric Transmission Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

--------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- ----- ----- ------ - ----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Equity in earnings of transmission affiliates $ 194.7 $ 158.1 $ 36.6
Other expense — 0.1 0.1
Interest expense 19.4 19.4 —
Income before income taxes 175.3 138.6 36.7

Income tax expense 45.8 32.3 (13.5)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 129.5 $ 106.3 $ 23.2

Equity in Earnings of Transmission Affiliates

Equity in earnings of transmission affiliates increased $36.6 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by:

•A $20.5 million increase in equity earnings due to the impact of a D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals opinion issued in August 2022 addressing complaints related to ATC's ROE. For information on this D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals opinion, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Regulatory, Legislative, and Legal Matters – American Transmission Company Allowed Return on Equity Complaints.

•An $8.5 million increase in equity earnings related to a goodwill impairment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2021 by ATC Holdco, which was formed to invest in transmission-related projects outside of ATC's traditional footprint.

Continued capital investment by ATC also contributed to the year-over-year increase in equity earnings.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the electric transmission segment increased $13.5 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by an increase in pre-tax income and a $3.3 million negative impact associated with a previously recorded reversal of a tax remeasurement in 2021.

Non-Utility Energy Infrastructure Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

-------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- - ----- ----- ----- - ----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operating income $ 372.8 $ 350.3 $ 22.5

Interest expense 68.9 71.0 2.1
Income before income taxes 303.9 279.3 24.6

Income tax expense (benefit) (20.9) 3.1 24.0
Net (income) loss attributed to noncontrolling interests (0.4) 3.0 (3.4)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 324.4 $ 279.2 $ 45.2

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 59 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Operating Income

Operating income at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment increased $22.5 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by:

•A $15.2 million positive impact from recognition of revenue related to our Upstream wind park in 2022 that was associated with market settlements received from SPP in February 2021. These settlements were subject to a FERC complaint, so we were not able to recognize them as revenue until the FERC issued an order denying that complaint in 2022.

•A $13.4 million positive impact from a sharing arrangement with one of our Blooming Grove customers resulting from strong energy prices.

These increases in operating income were partially offset by:

•A $5.1 million negative impact from higher operating losses at our Jayhawk wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2021. The site experienced operating losses in 2022 due to SPP reliability curtailments reducing output and transmission congestion reducing energy market prices.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment decreased $2.1 million during 2022, compared with 2021, primarily due to a lower principal balance as a result of the semi-annual principal payments on long-term debt.

Income Tax Expense (Benefit)

At the non-utility energy infrastructure segment, $20.9 million of income tax benefit was recorded during 2022, compared with $3.1 million of income tax expense recorded during 2021. The change was primarily due to a $30.3 million increase in PTCs in 2022, driven by the Jayhawk wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2021, higher generation at our other wind parks, and an increase in the PTC rate related to the PTC inflation adjustment issued by the IRS. This favorable change in the income tax benefit was partially offset by higher pre-tax earnings in 2022.

Corporate and Other Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ------ ---- ------ - ------ ----- ------ - ------
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operating loss $ (11.7) $ (18.9) $ 7.2

Other income, net 14.6 51.7 (37.1)
Interest expense 119.4 92.8 (26.6)
Loss on debt extinguishment — 36.3 36.3
Loss before income taxes (116.5) (96.3) (20.2)

Income tax benefit (45.7) (45.8) (0.1)
Net loss attributed to common shareholders $ (70.8) $ (50.5) $ (20.3)

Operating Loss

The operating loss at the corporate and other segment decreased $7.2 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by the resolution of a previously recorded liability as certain outstanding matters reached a favorable outcome in 2022.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the corporate and other segment decreased $37.1 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The decrease was driven by a $12.6 million net loss from the investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2022, compared with an $18.6 million net gain during 2021. The gains and losses from the investments held in the rabbi trust partially offset the changes in benefit costs related to deferred compensation, which are included in other operation and maintenance expense in our operating segments. See

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 60 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Note 17, Fair Value Measurements, for more information on our investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust. An $11.9 million decrease in earnings from our equity method investments in technology and energy-focused investment funds also contributed to the lower other income, net.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the corporate and other segment increased $26.6 million during 2022, compared with 2021, due to a $900.0 million long-term debt issuance in September 2022. See Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information. Also contributing to the increase was higher short-term debt interest rates.

Loss on Debt Extinguishment

There was no loss on debt extinguishment during 2022, as we did not refinance any debt obligations prior to maturity during 2022.

Income Tax Benefit

The income tax benefit at the corporate and other segment decreased $0.1 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by $10.3 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits recorded during 2021. This decrease in income tax benefit was offset by higher pre-tax loss and a $3.9 million increase in excess tax benefits recognized related to stock option exercises during 2022, compared with 2021.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

We expect to maintain adequate liquidity to meet our cash requirements for operation of our businesses and implementation of our corporate strategy through internal generation of cash from operations and access to the capital markets.

The following discussion and analysis of our Liquidity and Capital Resources includes comparisons of our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2022 with the year ended December 31, 2021. For a similar discussion that compares our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2021 with the year ended December 31, 2020, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on February 24, 2022.

Cash Flows

The following table summarizes our cash flows during the years ended December 31:

--------------------------- --------- ------- ---- --------- ------------------------ ------- ------- - ----
(in millions) 2022 2021 Change in 2022 Over 2021
Cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 2,060.7 $ 2,032.7 $ 28.0
Investing activities (2,642.4) (2,311.8) (330.6)
Financing activities 676.4 294.0 382.4

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities increased $28.0 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by:

•A $696.2 million increase in cash from higher overall collections from customers as a result of an increase in natural gas sales volumes during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by the continued economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and colder weather. In addition, we continued to recover the natural gas costs we under-collected from our Illinois and Minnesota customers related to the extreme weather conditions that occurred in February 2021. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the recovery of these natural gas costs.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 61 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•A $51.2 million increase in cash related to a decrease in contributions and payments related to pension and OPEB plans during 2022, compared with 2021.

These increases in net cash provided by operating activities were partially offset by:

•A $461.3 million decrease in cash from higher payments for fuel and purchased power at our plants during 2022, compared with 2021. Our plants incurred higher fuel costs throughout 2022 as a result of an increase in the price of natural gas.

•A $174.3 million decrease in cash from higher payments for operating and maintenance expenses. During 2022, our payments were higher for reliability and storm restoration, transmission, benefit costs, natural gas distribution and maintenance costs, natural gas storage costs, and customer service.

•A $28.3 million decrease in cash related to higher payments for property and revenue taxes, driven by higher gross receipt taxes, property taxes, and an increase in the Illinois invested capital tax during 2022, compared with 2021.

•An $18.6 million decrease in cash related to higher cash paid for income taxes, driven by higher taxable income during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $12.8 million decrease in cash related to higher payments for environmental remediation related to work completed on former manufactured gas plant sites during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $12.6 million decrease in cash related to lower distributions from ATC during 2022, compared with 2021.

•An $11.4 million decrease in cash related to higher payments for interest related to increases in long-term and short-term debt interest rates during 2022, compared with 2021.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities increased $330.6 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by:

•The acquisition of a 90% ownership interest in Thunderhead in September 2022 for $382.0 million. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

•A $62.1 million increase in cash paid for capital expenditures during 2022, compared with 2021, which is discussed in more detail below.

•Capital contributions paid to transmission affiliates of $45.5 million during 2022. See Note 21, Investment in Transmission Affiliates, for more information. There were no payments to transmission affiliates during 2021.

•The purchase of spectrum frequencies for $19.2 million during 2022. See Note 10, Goodwill and Intangibles, for more information.

•A $17.8 million increase in cash paid for ATC's construction costs during 2022, compared with 2021, which will be reimbursed in the future. See Note 21, Investment in Transmission Affiliates, for more information.

These increases in net cash used in investing activities were partially offset by:

•The acquisition of a 90% ownership interest in Jayhawk in February 2021 for $119.9 million. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

•A $47.1 million increase in proceeds from the sale of assets during 2022, compared with 2021, primarily related to the sale of real estate owned by PGL. See Note 3, Dispositions, for more information.

•Insurance proceeds of $41.6 million received during 2022 for property damage, primarily related to the PSB water damage claim. See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 62 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures by segment for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

--------------------------------- ----- ------- ---- ----- ------------------------ ------- ------- - -----
Reportable Segment (in millions) 2022 2021 Change in 2022 Over 2021
Wisconsin $ 1,610.8 $ 1,389.7 $ 221.1
Illinois 484.9 533.7 (48.8)
Other states 101.1 95.9 5.2
Non-utility energy infrastructure 101.8 215.4 (113.6)
Corporate and other 16.3 18.1 (1.8)
Total capital expenditures $ 2,314.9 $ 2,252.8 $ 62.1

The increase in cash paid for capital expenditures at the Wisconsin segment during 2022, compared with 2021, was primarily driven by higher payments for capital expenditures related to Paris and other renewable energy projects, the new natural gas-fired generation being constructed at WPS's existing Weston power plant site, and WG's LNG facility. These increases were partially offset by lower payments for capital expenditures related to upgrades to WE's and WPS's natural gas distribution systems and the restoration of WE's PSB. See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information on the PSB.

The decrease in cash paid for capital expenditures at the Illinois segment during 2022, compared with 2021, was primarily driven by lower capital expenditures related to upgrades at the Manlove Gas Storage Field and upgrades to PGL's natural gas distribution system.

The decrease in cash paid for capital expenditures at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment during 2022, compared with 2021, was primarily driven by lower payments for capital expenditures related to the construction of Jayhawk, which went into commercial operation in December 2021. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information. This decrease in cash paid for capital expenditures was partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures for wastewater treatment system modifications for We Power's ERGS units. See Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, for more information on the wastewater treatment system modifications.

See Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements – Significant Capital Projects below for more information.

Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities increased $382.4 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by:

•A $1,168.3 million increase in cash due to a decrease in retirements of long-term debt during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $340.0 million increase in cash due to a repayment of a 364-day term loan during 2021.

•A $51.6 million increase in cash due to a decrease in payments for debt extinguishment and issuance costs during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $17.9 million increase in cash received from the exercise of stock options during 2022, compared with 2021.

These increases in net cash provided by financing activities were partially offset by:

•A $711.8 million decrease in cash due to $252.6 million of net repayments of commercial paper during 2022, compared with $459.2 million of net borrowings of commercial paper during 2021.

•A $384.5 million decrease in cash due to lower issuances of long-term debt during 2022, compared with the same period in 2021.

•A $63.1 million decrease in cash due to higher dividends paid on our common stock during 2022, compared with 2021. In January 2022, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by $0.05 per share (7.4%) effective with the March 2022 dividend payment.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 63 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•A $36.1 million decrease in cash due to an increase in common stock purchased during 2022, compared with 2021, to satisfy requirements of our stock-based compensation plans.

Significant Financing Activities

For more information on our financing activities, see Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, and Note 14, Long-Term Debt.

Cash Requirements

We require funds to support and grow our businesses. Our significant cash requirements primarily consist of capital and investment expenditures, payments to retire and pay interest on long-term debt, the payment of common stock dividends to our shareholders, and the funding of our ongoing operations. Our significant cash requirements are discussed in further detail below.

Significant Capital Projects

We have several capital projects that will require significant capital expenditures over the next three years and beyond. All projected capital requirements are subject to periodic review and may vary significantly from estimates, depending on a number of factors. These factors include environmental requirements, regulatory restraints and requirements, changes in tax laws and regulations, acquisition and development opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, supply chain disruptions, inflation, and interest rates. Our estimated capital expenditures and acquisitions for the next three years are reflected below. These amounts include anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and certain remediation issues. For a discussion of certain environmental matters affecting us, see Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies.

--------------------------------- ----- ------- ---- ----- ---- ------- ----- - -------
(in millions) 2023 2024 2025
Wisconsin $ 2,530.7 $ 2,432.8 $ 2,445.5
Illinois 557.1 659.5 614.0
Other states 111.8 115.0 104.7
Non-utility energy infrastructure 747.0 683.8 217.2
Corporate and other 28.1 17.0 2.7
Total $ 3,974.7 $ 3,908.1 $ 3,384.1

Our utilities continue to upgrade their electric and natural gas distribution systems to enhance reliability. These upgrades include addressing our aging infrastructure and system hardening and the AMI program. AMI is an integrated system of smart meters, communication networks, and data management systems that enable two-way communication between utilities and customers.

We are committed to investing in solar, wind, battery storage, and clean natural gas-fired generation. Below are examples of projects that are proposed or currently underway.

•We have received approval to invest in 100 MW of utility-scale solar within our Wisconsin segment. WE has partnered with an unaffiliated utility to construct a solar project, Badger Hollow II, that will be located in Iowa County, Wisconsin. Once constructed, WE will own 100 MW of this project. WE's share of the cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $151 million. Commercial operation of Badger Hollow II is targeted for 2023.

•WE and WPS, along with an unaffiliated utility, received PSCW approval to acquire and construct Paris, a utility-scale solar-powered electric generating facility with a battery energy storage system. The project will be located in Kenosha County, Wisconsin and once fully constructed, WE and WPS will collectively own 180 MW of solar generation and 99 MW of battery storage of this project. WE's and WPS's combined share of the cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $390 million, with construction of the solar portion expected to be completed in 2023.

•WE and WPS, along with an unaffiliated utility, received PSCW approval to acquire and construct Darien, a utility-scale solar-powered electric generating facility with a battery energy storage system. The project will be located in Rock and Walworth counties, Wisconsin and once fully constructed, WE and WPS will collectively own 225 MW of solar generation and 68 MW of battery storage of this project. WE's and WPS's combined share of the cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $400 million, with construction of the solar portion expected to be completed in 2024.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 64 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•WPS, along with an unaffiliated utility, received PSCW approval to acquire Red Barn, a utility-scale wind-powered electric generating facility. The project will be located in Grant County, Wisconsin and once constructed, WPS will own 82 MW of this project. WPS's share of the cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $160 million, with construction expected to be completed in the first half of 2023.

•In April 2021, WE and WPS, along with an unaffiliated utility, filed an application with the PSCW for approval to acquire the Koshkonong Solar-Battery Park, a utility-scale solar-powered electric generating facility with a battery energy storage system. The project will be located in Dane County, Wisconsin and once fully constructed, WE and WPS will collectively own 270 MW of solar generation and 149 MW of battery storage of this project. If approved, WE's and WPS's combined share of the cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $585 million, with construction of the solar portion expected to be completed in 2025.

•WE and WPS received PSCW approval to construct 128 MWs of natural gas-fired generation at WPS's existing Weston power plant site in northern Wisconsin. The new facility will consist of seven RICE units. We estimate the cost of this project to be approximately $170 million, with construction expected to be completed in 2023.

•Effective January 1, 2023, WE and WPS completed the acquisition of Whitewater, a commercially operational 236.5 MW dual fueled (natural gas and low sulfur fuel oil) combined cycle electrical generation facility in Whitewater, Wisconsin. The cost of this facility was approximately $75.0 million, which includes transaction costs and working capital. See Note 15, Leases, for more information.

•In January 2022, WPS, along with an unaffiliated utility, filed an application with the PSCW for approval to acquire a portion of West Riverside's nameplate capacity. WPS is also requesting approval to assign the option to purchase part of West Riverside to WE. If approved, WPS or WE would acquire 100 MW of capacity, in the first of two potential option exercises. West Riverside is a combined cycle natural gas plant recently completed by an unaffiliated utility in Rock County, Wisconsin. If approved, our share of the cost of this ownership interest is approximately $91 million, with the transaction expected to close in the second quarter of 2023. In addition, WPS could exercise a second option to acquire an additional 100 MW of capacity. If approved, our share of the cost of this ownership interest is expected to be approximately $90 million, with the transaction expected to close in 2024.

In March 2022, the DOC opened an investigation into whether new tariffs should be imposed on solar panels and cells imported from multiple southeast Asian countries. See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Regulatory, Legislative, and Legal Matters – United States Department of Commerce Complaints and Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Regulatory, Legislative, and Legal Matters – Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act for information on the potential impacts to our solar projects as a result of the DOC investigation and CBP actions related to solar panels, respectively. The expected in-service dates identified above already reflect some of these impacts.

WE and WG have received PSCW approval to each construct its own LNG facility. Each facility would provide approximately one Bcf of natural gas supply to meet anticipated peak demand without requiring the construction of additional interstate pipeline capacity. These facilities are expected to reduce the likelihood of constraints on WE's and WG's natural gas systems during the highest demand days of winter. The total cost of both projects is estimated to be approximately $370 million, with approximately half being invested by each utility. Commercial operation of the WE and WG LNG facilities are targeted for the end of 2023 and 2024, respectively.

PGL is continuing work on the SMP, a project under which PGL is replacing approximately 2,000 miles of Chicago's aging natural gas pipeline infrastructure. PGL currently recovers these costs through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an ICC approved QIP rider, which is in effect through 2023. After 2023, PGL will return to the traditional ratemaking process to recover the costs of necessary infrastructure improvements. PGL's projected average annual investment through 2025 is between $280 million and $300 million. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the SMP.

The non-utility energy infrastructure line item in the table above includes WECI's recent and planned investments in Sapphire Sky, Samson I, and Maple Flats. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information on these projects.

We expect to provide total capital contributions to ATC (not included in the above table) of approximately $244 million from 2023 through 2025. We do not expect to make any contributions to ATC Holdco during that period.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 65 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Long-Term Debt

A significant amount of cash is required to retire and pay interest on our long-term debt obligations. See Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information on our outstanding long-term debt, including a schedule of our long-term debt maturities over the next five years. The following table summarizes our required interest payments on long-term debt (excluding finance lease obligations) as of December 31, 2022:

--------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ------- ---------------- --------- ----- --------- ----------------- ------- - ----- - -------
 Interest Payments Due by Period
(in millions) Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years
Interest payments on long-term debt (1) $ 8,639.1 $ 578.2 $ 1,096.1 $ 940.4 $ 6,024.4

(1)    The interest due on our variable rate debt is based on the interest rates that were in effect on December 31, 2022.

Common Stock Dividends

On January 19, 2023, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.78 per share effective with the first quarter of 2023 dividend payment, an increase of 7.2%. This equates to an annual dividend of $3.12 per share. In addition, the Board of Directors affirmed our dividend policy that continues to target a dividend payout ratio of 65-70% of earnings.

We have been paying consecutive quarterly dividends dating back to 1942 and expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends in the future. Any payment of future dividends is subject to approval by our Board of Directors and is dependent upon future earnings, capital requirements, and financial and other business conditions. In addition, our ability as a holding company to pay common stock dividends primarily depends on the availability of funds received from our subsidiaries. Various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements impose certain restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances. We do not believe that these restrictions will materially affect our operations or limit any dividend payments in the foreseeable future. See Note 11, Common Equity, for more information related to these restrictions and our other common stock matters.

Other Significant Cash Requirements

Our utility and non-utility operations have purchase obligations under various contracts for the procurement of fuel, power, and gas supply, as well as the related storage and transportation. These costs are a significant component of funding our ongoing operations. See Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, for more information, including our minimum future commitments related to these purchase obligations.

In addition to our energy-related purchase obligations, we have commitments for other costs incurred in the normal course of business, including costs related to information technology services, meter reading services, maintenance and other service agreements for certain generating facilities, and various engineering agreements. Our estimated future cash requirements related to these purchase obligations are reflected below.

--------------- ---------------------- ----- ---------------- --------- ----- --------- ----------------- ----- - ---- - ----
 Payments Due by Period
(in millions) Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years
Purchase orders $ 526.2 $ 218.3 $ 223.8 $ 72.1 $ 12.0

We have various finance and operating lease obligations. Our finance lease obligations primarily relate to power purchase commitments and land leases for our solar projects. Our operating lease obligations are for office space and land. See Note 15, Leases, for more information, including an analysis of our minimum lease payments due in future years.

We make contributions to our pension and OPEB plans based upon various factors affecting us, including our liquidity position and tax law changes. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for our expected contributions in 2023 and our expected pension and OPEB payments for the next 10 years. We expect the majority of these future pension and OPEB payments to be paid from our outside trusts. See Sources of Cash–Investments in Outside Trusts below for more information.

In addition to the above, our balance sheet at December 31, 2022 included various other liabilities that, due to the nature of the liabilities, the amount and timing of future payments cannot be determined with certainty. These liabilities include AROs, liabilities

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 66 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
for the remediation of manufactured gas plant sites, and liabilities related to the accounting treatment for uncertainty in income taxes. For additional information on these liabilities, see Note 9, Asset Retirement Obligations, Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 16, Income Taxes, respectively.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are a party to various financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk as a part of our normal course of business, including financial guarantees and letters of credit that support construction projects, commodity contracts, and other payment obligations. We believe that these agreements do not have, and are not reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. For additional information, see Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, Note 19, Guarantees, and Note 23, Variable Interest Entities.

Sources of Cash

Liquidity

We anticipate meeting our short-term and long-term cash requirements to operate our businesses and implement our corporate strategy through internal generation of cash from operations and access to the capital markets, which allows us to obtain external short-term borrowings, including commercial paper and term loans, and intermediate or long-term debt securities. Cash generated from operations is primarily driven by sales of electricity and natural gas to our utility customers, reduced by costs of operations. Our access to the capital markets is critical to our overall strategic plan and allows us to supplement cash flows from operations with external borrowings to manage seasonal variations, working capital needs, commodity price fluctuations, unplanned expenses, and unanticipated events.

WEC Energy Group, WE, WPS, WG, and PGL maintain bank back-up credit facilities, which provide liquidity support for each company's obligations with respect to commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. We review our bank back-up credit facility needs on an ongoing basis and expect to be able to maintain adequate credit facilities to support our operations.

The amount, type, and timing of any financings in 2023, as well as in subsequent years, will be contingent on investment opportunities and our cash requirements and will depend upon prevailing market conditions, regulatory approvals for certain subsidiaries, and other factors. Our regulated utilities plan to maintain capital structures consistent with those approved by their respective regulators. For more information on our utilities approved capital structures, see Item 1. Business – E. Regulation.

The issuance of securities by our utility companies is subject to the approval of the applicable state commissions or FERC. Additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, we, WE, and WPS file registration statements with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (1933 Act). The amounts of securities authorized by the appropriate regulatory authorities, as well as the securities registered under the 1933 Act, are closely monitored and appropriate filings are made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets.

At December 31, 2022, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $1,423.3 million. We do not expect this to have an impact on our liquidity as we currently believe that our cash and cash equivalents, our available capacity of $1,454.2 million under existing revolving credit facilities, cash generated from ongoing operations, and access to the capital markets are adequate to meet our short-term and long-term cash requirements.

See Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, and Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information about our credit facilities and debt securities.

Investments in Outside Trusts

We maintain investments in outside trusts to fund the obligation to provide pension and certain OPEB benefits to current and future retirees. As of December 31, 2022, these trusts had investments of approximately $3.5 billion, consisting of fixed income and equity securities, that are subject to the volatility of the stock market and interest rates. The performance of existing plan assets, long-term discount rates, changes in assumptions, and other factors could affect our future contributions to the plans, our financial position if our accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the plan assets, and future results of operations related to changes in pension and OPEB expense and the assumed rate of return. For additional information, see Note 20, Employee Benefits.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 67 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Capitalization Structure

The following table shows our capitalization structure as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, as well as an adjusted capitalization structure that we believe is consistent with how a majority of the rating agencies currently view our 2007 Junior Notes:

------------------------------------------ -------- -------- -------- -------- ------ -------- -------- - - -------- - - --------
 2022 2021
(in millions) Actual Adjusted Actual Adjusted
Common shareholders' equity $ 11,376.9 $ 11,626.9 $ 10,913.2 $ 11,163.2
Preferred stock of subsidiary 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4
Long-term debt (including current portion) 15,647.4 15,397.4 13,693.1 13,443.1
Short-term debt 1,647.1 1,647.1 1,897.0 1,897.0
Total capitalization $ 28,701.8 $ 28,701.8 $ 26,533.7 $ 26,533.7

Total debt $ 17,294.5 $ 17,044.5 $ 15,590.1 $ 15,340.1

Ratio of debt to total capitalization 60.3 % 59.4 % 58.8 % 57.8 %

Included in long-term debt on our balance sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, is $500.0 million principal amount of the 2007 Junior Notes. The adjusted presentation attributes $250.0 million of the 2007 Junior Notes to common shareholders' equity and $250.0 million to long-term debt.

The adjusted presentation of our consolidated capitalization structure is included as a complement to our capitalization structure presented in accordance with GAAP. Management evaluates and manages our capitalization structure, including our total debt to total capitalization ratio, using the GAAP calculation as adjusted to reflect the treatment of the 2007 Junior Notes by the majority of rating agencies. Therefore, we believe the non-GAAP adjusted presentation reflecting this treatment is useful and relevant to investors in understanding how management and the rating agencies evaluate our capitalization structure.

Debt Covenants

Certain of our short-term and long-term debt agreements contain financial covenants that we must satisfy, including debt to capitalization ratios and debt service coverage ratios. At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all such covenants related to outstanding short-term and long-term debt. We expect to be in compliance with all such debt covenants for the foreseeable future. See Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, Note 14, Long-Term Debt, and Note 11, Common Equity, for more information.

Credit Rating Risk

Cash collateral postings and prepayments made with external parties, including postings related to exchange-traded contracts, and cash collateral posted by external parties were immaterial as of December 31, 2022. From time to time, we may enter into commodity contracts that could require collateral or a termination payment in the event of a credit rating change to below BBB- at S&P Global Ratings, a division of S&P Global Inc., and/or Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. If WE had a sub-investment grade credit rating at December 31, 2022, it could have been required to post $100 million of additional collateral or other assurances pursuant to the terms of a PPA. We also have other commodity contracts that, in the event of a credit rating downgrade, could result in a reduction of our unsecured credit granted by counterparties.

In addition, access to capital markets at a reasonable cost is determined in large part by credit quality. Any credit ratings downgrade could impact our ability to access capital markets.

In December 2022, Moody's changed the rating outlook for WG to stable from negative as a result of the rate case decision WG received in December 2022. Moody's affirmed WG's ratings including its A3 senior unsecured rating and its P-2 short term rating for commercial paper. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the rate case decision.

Subject to other factors affecting the credit markets as a whole, we believe our current ratings should provide a significant degree of flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. However, these security ratings reflect the views of the rating agency only. An

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 68 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
explanation of the significance of these ratings may be obtained from the rating agency. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. Any rating can be revised upward or downward or withdrawn at any time by a rating agency.

FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Competitive Markets

Electric Utility Industry

The FERC supports large RTOs, which directly impacts the structure of the wholesale electric market. Due to the FERC's support of RTOs, MISO uses the MISO Energy Markets to carry out its operations, including the use of LMP to value electric transmission congestion and losses. Increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant and adverse financial impact on us.

Wisconsin

Electric utility revenues in Wisconsin are regulated by the PSCW. The PSCW continues to maintain the position that the question of whether to implement electric retail competition in Wisconsin should ultimately be decided by the Wisconsin legislature. No such legislation has been introduced in Wisconsin to date. It is uncertain when, if at all, retail choice might be implemented in Wisconsin.

Michigan

Michigan has adopted a limited retail choice program. Under Michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. As a result, some of our small retail customers have switched to an alternative electric supplier. At December 31, 2022, Michigan law limited customer choice to 10% of an electric utility's Michigan retail load. Our iron ore mine customer, Tilden, is exempt from this 10% cap based on current law, but Tilden is required under a long-term agreement to purchase electric power from UMERC through March 2039. In addition, certain load increases by facilities already using an alternative electric supplier can still be serviced by their alternative electric supplier, when various conditions exist, even if the cap has already been met. When a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer.

Natural Gas Utility Industry

We offer natural gas transportation services to our customers that elect to purchase natural gas directly from a third-party supplier. Since these transportation customers continue to use our distribution systems to transport natural gas to their facilities, we earn distribution revenues from them. As such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is substantially offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs.

Wisconsin

Our Wisconsin utilities offer both natural gas transportation service and interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. Customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change.

Due to the PSCW's previous proceedings on natural gas industry regulation in a competitive environment, the PSCW currently provides all Wisconsin customer classes with competitive markets the option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier. All of our Wisconsin non-residential customer classes have competitive market choices and, therefore, can purchase natural gas directly from either a third-party supplier or their local natural gas utility. Since third-party suppliers can be used in Wisconsin, the PSCW has also adopted standards for transactions between a utility and its natural gas marketing affiliates.

We are currently unable to predict the impact, if any, of potential future industry restructuring on our results of operations or financial position.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 69 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Illinois

Absent extraordinary circumstances, potential competitors are not allowed to construct competing natural gas distribution systems in the service territories for PGL and NSG. A charter from the State of Illinois gives PGL the right to provide natural gas distribution service in the City of Chicago as a public utility. Further, the "first in the field" and public interest standards limit the ability of potential competitors to operate in an existing utility service territory. In addition, we believe it would be impractical to construct competing duplicate distribution facilities due to the high cost of installation.

Since 2002, PGL and NSG have, under ICC-approved tariffs, provided their customers with the option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier. There are no state laws requiring PGL and NSG to make this choice option available to customers, but since this option is currently provided to our Illinois customers under tariff, ICC approval would be needed to withdraw those tariffs.

An interstate pipeline may seek to provide transportation service directly to our Illinois end users, which would bypass our natural gas transportation service. However, PGL and NSG have anti-bypass tariffs approved by the ICC, which allow them to negotiate rates with customers that are potential bypass candidates to help ensure that such customers continue to use utility transportation service.

Minnesota

Natural gas utilities in the state of Minnesota do not have exclusive franchise service territories and, as a matter of law and policy, natural gas utilities may compete for new customers. However, natural gas utilities have customarily avoided competing for existing customers of other utilities, as there would be duplicative utility facilities and/or increased costs to customers. If this approach were to change, it could lead to a greater level of competition amongst utilities to obtain customers.

MERC offers both natural gas transportation service and interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. Customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. MERC has provided its commercial and industrial customers with the option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier since 2006. We are not required by the MPUC or state law to make this choice option available to customers, but since this option is currently provided to our Minnesota commercial and industrial customers, we would need MPUC approval to eliminate it.

Michigan

The option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier has been provided to UMERC’s natural gas customers (formerly WPS’s Michigan natural gas customers) since the late 1990s and MGU's customers since 2005. We are not required by the MPSC or state law to make this choice option available to customers, but since this option is currently provided to our Michigan customers, we would need MPSC approval to eliminate it.

Regulatory, Legislative, and Legal Matters

Regulatory Recovery

Our utilities account for their regulated operations in accordance with accounting guidance under the Regulated Operations Topic of the FASB ASC. Our rates are determined by various regulatory commissions. See Item 1. Business – E. Regulation for more information on these commissions.

Regulated entities are allowed to defer certain costs that would otherwise be charged to expense if the regulated entity believes the recovery of those costs is probable. We record regulatory assets pursuant to generic and/or specific orders issued by our regulators. Recovery of the deferred costs in future rates is subject to the review and approval by those regulators. We assume the risks and benefits of ultimate recovery of these items in future rates. If the recovery of the deferred costs, including those referenced below, is not approved by our regulators, the costs would be charged to income in the current period. Regulators can impose liabilities on a prospective basis for amounts previously collected from customers and for amounts that are expected to be refunded to customers. We record these items as regulatory liabilities. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, for more information on our regulatory assets and liabilities.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 70 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
In January 2014, the ICC approved PGL's use of the QIP rider as a recovery mechanism for costs incurred related to investments in QIP. This rider is subject to an annual reconciliation whereby costs are reviewed for accuracy and prudency. In March 2022, PGL filed its 2021 reconciliation with the ICC, which, along with the 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, and 2016 reconciliations, are still pending. In addition, costs incurred during 2022 under the QIP rider are also still subject to reconciliation and review. As of December 31, 2022, there can be no assurance that all costs incurred under the QIP rider during the open reconciliation years, which include 2016 through 2022, will be deemed recoverable by the ICC.

See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information regarding recent and pending rate proceedings, orders, and investigations involving our utilities.

Petitions Before PSCW Regarding Third-Party Financed Distributed Energy Resources

In May 2022, two petitions were filed with the PSCW requesting a declaratory ruling that the owner of a third-party financed DER is not a "public utility" as defined under Wisconsin law and, therefore, is not subject to the PSCW’s jurisdiction under any statute or rule regulating public utilities. The parties that filed the petitions provide financing to their customers for installation of DERs (including solar panels and energy storage) on the customer’s property. A DER is connected to the host customer’s utility meter and is used for the customer’s energy needs. It may also be connected to the grid for distribution.

In July 2022, the PSCW found that the specific facts and circumstances merited the opening of a docket for each petition to consider whether to grant all or part of the requested declaratory ruling.

On December 1, 2022, the PSCW granted one petitioner’s request for a declaratory ruling, finding that the owner of the third-party financed DER at issue in the petitioner’s brief is not a public utility under Wisconsin law. The ruling was limited to the specific facts and circumstances of the lease presented in that petition. A second petition is also being considered. Although the finding in the first petition was limited to the specific facts and circumstances of the lease presented in that petition, similar findings or a broader policy position could adversely impact our business operations.

Climate and Equitable Jobs Act

On September 15, 2021, the state of Illinois signed into law the Climate and Equitable Jobs Act. This new legislation includes, among other things, a path for Illinois to move towards 100% clean energy, expanded commitments to energy efficiency and renewable energy, additional consumer protections, and expanded ethics reform. The provisions in this legislation with the potential to have the most significant financial impact on PGL and NSG relate to the new consumer protection requirements.

Effective September 15, 2021, the new legislation prohibits utilities from charging customers a fee when they elect to pay for service with a credit card. Utilities are now required to incur these expenses and seek recovery through a rate proceeding or by establishing a recovery mechanism. In December 2021, the ICC approved the use of a TPTFA rider for PGL. The TPTFA rider allows PGL to recover the costs incurred for these third-party transaction fees. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the rider. NSG recovers costs related to these third-party transaction fees through its base rates, effective September 15, 2021.

In accordance with the new legislation, effective January 1, 2023, natural gas utilities are also no longer allowed to charge late payment fees to low-income residential customers. We are currently evaluating the impact this legislation may have on our future results of operations.

Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act

The CBP issued a WRO in June 2021, applicable to certain silica-based products originating from the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China (Xinjiang), such as polysilicon, included in the manufacturing of solar panels. In June 2022, the WRO was superseded by the implementation of the UFLPA, which was signed into law by President Biden in December 2021. The UFLPA establishes a rebuttable presumption that any imports wholly or partially manufactured in Xinjiang are prohibited from entering the United States. While our suppliers were able to provide the CBP sufficient documentation to meet WRO compliance requirements, and we expect the same will be true for UFLPA purposes, we cannot currently predict what, if any, impact the UFLPA will have on the overall supply of solar panels into the United States and the related impact to timing and cost of solar projects included in our capital plan.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 71 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
United States Department of Commerce Complaints

In August 2021, a group of anonymous domestic solar manufacturers filed a petition (AD/CVD) with the DOC seeking to impose new tariffs on solar panels and cells imported from several countries, including Malaysia, Vietnam, and Thailand. The petitioners claimed that Chinese solar manufacturers are shifting products to these countries to avoid the tariffs required on products imported from China. In November 2021, the DOC rejected this petition. In denying the petition, the DOC cited the anonymous group’s refusal of the DOC’s request to provide more detail and identify its members due to the members' concerns about retribution from the dominant Chinese solar industry.

In February 2022, a California based company filed a petition (AD/CVD) with the DOC seeking to impose new tariffs on solar panels and cells imported from multiple countries, including Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, and Cambodia. While the petition is similar to the one rejected by the DOC in November 2021, there are notable differences. The group added Cambodia to the petition and requested that the DOC conduct a country-wide inquiry into each of the four countries. In March 2022, the DOC decided to act on the February petition and investigate the claim. On December 2, 2022, the DOC announced its preliminary determination that certain companies are circumventing anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders on solar cells and modules from China. As the next step, the DOC will conduct in-person audits to verify the information that was the basis of the finding. If the DOC makes a final determination, which is currently expected in the second quarter of 2023, that such circumvention is occurring it would be able to apply any final tariffs retroactively to November 4, 2021. If imposed, the new tariffs could further disrupt the supply of solar modules to the United States, and could impact the cost and timing of our solar projects.

In June 2022, the Biden Administration used its executive powers to issue a 24-month tariff moratorium on solar panels manufactured in Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. The moratorium comes as a direct response to concerns raised about the adverse impact from the ongoing DOC complaint on the U.S. solar industry. As the DOC will continue its investigation discussed above, companies may still be subject to tariffs after the moratorium ends; however, U.S. companies will reportedly be exempt from any retroactive tariffs that previously could have applied. The Biden Administration also announced that it plans to invoke the Defense Production Act to accelerate the production of solar panels in the U.S. The Biden Administration's actions did not address whether WROs applied to panels under previous complaints would be affected.

Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act

In November 2021, President Biden signed into law the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which provides for approximately $1.2 trillion of federal spending over the next five years, including approximately $85 billion for investments in power, utilities, and renewables infrastructure across the United States. We expect funding from this Act will support the work we are doing to reduce GHG emissions, increase EV charging, and strengthen and protect the energy grid. Funding in the Act should also help to expand emerging technologies, like hydrogen and carbon management, as we continue the transition to a clean energy future. We believe the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will accelerate investment in projects that will help us meet our net zero emission goals to the benefit of our customers, the communities we serve, and our company.

Inflation Reduction Act

In August 2022, President Biden signed into law the IRA, which provides for $258 billion in energy-related provisions over a 10-year period. The provisions of the IRA are intended to, among other things, lower gasoline and electricity prices, incentivize domestic clean energy investment, manufacturing, and production, and promote reductions in carbon emissions. We believe that we and our customers can benefit from the IRA’s provisions that extend tax benefits for renewable technologies, increase or restore higher rates for PTCs, add an option to claim PTCs for solar projects, expand qualified ITC facilities to include standalone energy storage, and its provision to allow companies to transfer tax credits generated from renewable projects. The IRA also implements a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax and a 1% excise tax on stock repurchases. Although significant regulatory guidance is expected on the tax provisions in the IRA, we currently believe the provisions on alternative minimum tax and stock repurchases will not have a material impact on us. Overall, we believe the IRA will help reduce our cost of investing in projects that will support our commitment to reduce emissions and provide customers affordable, reliable, and clean energy over the longer term.

Return on Equity Incentive for Membership in a Transmission Organization

The FERC currently allows transmission utilities, including ATC, to increase their ROE by 50 basis points as an incentive for membership in a transmission organization, such as MISO. This incentive was established to stimulate infrastructure development and to support the evolving electric grid. However, a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking was issued by the FERC on April 15, 2021

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 72 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
proposing to limit the 50 basis point increase in ROE to only be available to transmission utilities initially joining a transmission organization for the first three years of membership. If this proposal becomes a final rule, ATC would be required to submit, within 30 days of the final rule's effective date, a compliance filing eliminating the 50 basis point incentive from its tariff. As a result, we estimate that this proposal, if adopted, would reduce our future after-tax equity earnings from ATC by approximately $7 million annually on a prospective basis. The transmission costs WE, WPS, and UMERC are required to pay ATC after the effective date would also be reduced by this proposal.

American Transmission Company Allowed Return on Equity Complaints

The ROE allowed by the FERC helps determine how much transmission owners, such as ATC, earn on their transmission assets as well as how much consumers pay for those assets. When two complaints were filed arguing the base ROE for MISO transmission owners, including ATC, was too high, the FERC started analyzing the base ROE for these transmission owners.

The base ROEs listed in the two ROE complaint sections below do not include the 50 basis point ROE incentive currently provided for membership in a transmission organization. See the Return on Equity Incentive for Membership in a Transmission Organization section above for more information on this incentive.

First Return on Equity Complaint

In November 2013, a group of MISO industrial customers filed a complaint with the FERC asking that the FERC order a reduction to the base ROE used by MISO transmission owners, including ATC, from 12.2% to 9.15%. Due to this complaint, the FERC and the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued the following orders and opinion. The refunds resulting from these orders and opinion are also described below.

•Orders Issued by the FERC

◦September 2016 Order – On September 28, 2016, the FERC issued an order reducing the base ROE for MISO transmission owners to 10.32% for the period covered by the first complaint, November 12, 2013 through February 11, 2015 and September 28, 2016 going forward.

◦November 2019 Order – On November 21, 2019, the FERC issued another order after directing MISO transmission owners and other stakeholders to provide briefs and comments on a proposed change to the methodology for calculating base ROE. In this order, the FERC expanded its base ROE methodology to include the capital-asset pricing model in addition to the discounted cash flow model to better reflect how investors make their investment decisions. The FERC also rejected the use of the risk premium model as part of its base ROE methodology in this order. The FERC's modified methodology further reduced the base ROE for all MISO transmission owners, including ATC, to 9.88% for the period covered by the first complaint. In response to this FERC decision, requests for the FERC to rehear the November 2019 Order in its entirety were filed by various parties.

◦May 2020 Order – On May 21, 2020, the FERC issued an order that granted in part and denied in part the requests to rehear the November 2019 Order. In this May 2020 Order, the FERC made additional revisions to its base ROE methodology, including reinstating the use of the risk premium model. The additional revisions made by the FERC increased the base ROE for all MISO transmission owners, including ATC, from the 9.88% authorized in the November 2019 Order to 10.02% for the period covered by the first complaint. Various parties then filed requests to rehear certain parts of the May 2020 Order with the FERC.

◦November 2020 Order – In response to the rehearing requests filed concerning certain parts of the May 2020 Order, the FERC issued an order in November 2020 that confirmed the ROE previously authorized in its May 2020 Order.

◦Refunds – Due to the base ROE changes resulting from these FERC orders, ATC was required to provide refunds, with interest, for the 15-month refund period from November 12, 2013 through February 11, 2015 and for the period from September 28, 2016 through November 19, 2020. In January 2022, ATC completed providing WE, WPS, and UMERC with the net refunds related to the transmission costs they paid during the period covered by the first complaint. The refunds were applied to WE's and WPS's PSCW-approved escrow accounting for transmission expense.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 73 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•Opinion Issued by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals

◦August 2022 Decision – Since several petitions for review were filed with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals concerning this ROE complaint, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued an opinion on August 9, 2022 addressing these petitions. In its August 2022 Decision, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled the FERC failed to adequately explain why it reinstated the use of the risk premium model as part of its ROE methodology in its May 2020 Order after previously rejecting the model in its November 2019 Order. Due to this ruling, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the FERC’s previous orders and remanded the issue of determining an appropriate base ROE for MISO transmission owners back to the FERC for additional proceedings. As of December 31, 2022, the FERC had not provided a ruling in response to the August 2022 Decision issued by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.

◦Refunds – Since the FERC is required to conduct more proceedings, additional refunds could still be required for the 15-month period from November 12, 2013 through February 11, 2015 and for the period from September 28, 2016 until the date of any future order. Therefore, ATC recorded a liability on its financials for these potential refunds, which reduced our equity earnings from ATC by $18.6 million during the third quarter of 2022. The liability recorded by ATC is based on a 9.88% base ROE for the first complaint period. If it is ultimately determined a refund is required for the first complaint period, we would not expect any such refund to have a material impact on our financial statements or results of operations in the future. In addition, WE, WPS, and UMERC would be entitled to receive a portion of the refund from ATC for the benefit of their customers.

Second Return on Equity Complaint

In February 2015, a second complaint was filed with the FERC requesting a reduction in the base ROE used by MISO transmission owners, including ATC, to 8.67%, with a refund effective date retroactive to February 12, 2015. To resolve this complaint, the following orders and opinion were issued by the FERC and the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. The orders and opinion discussed below are the same orders and opinion described above in the first complaint section.

•Orders Issued by the FERC

◦November 2019 Order – Similar to the first complaint, the November 2019 Order stated the newly calculated base ROE of 9.88% was also reasonable for the period covered by the second complaint, February 12, 2015 through May 10, 2016. However, in the November 2019 Order, the FERC relied on certain provisions of the Federal Power Act to dismiss the second complaint and to determine refunds were not allowed for this period.

◦May 2020 Order – In its May 2020 Order, the FERC stated the newly calculated base ROE of 10.02% was also reasonable for the period covered by the second complaint. However, the FERC relied on the same provisions of the Federal Power Act to again dismiss the complaint and to determine refunds were not allowed for this period. In addition, the FERC denied in its May 2020 Order the requests to rehear both the dismissal of the second complaint and the determination that no refunds are allowed for the second complaint period.

•Opinion Issued by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals

◦August 2022 Decision - The August 2022 Decision issued by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed both the FERC’s dismissal of the second complaint and the FERC’s finding that no refunds are allowed for the second complaint period. Therefore, during the third quarter of 2022, we reduced the liability previously recorded for the potential refunds related to the second complaint period by $39.1 million, which increased our equity earnings from ATC.

Environmental Matters

See Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, for a discussion of certain environmental matters affecting us, including rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, land quality, and climate change.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 74 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Market Risks and Other Significant Risks

We are exposed to market and other significant risks as a result of the nature of our businesses and the environments in which those businesses operate. These risks, described in further detail below, include but are not limited to:

Commodity Costs

In the normal course of providing energy, we are subject to market fluctuations in the costs of coal, natural gas, purchased power, and fuel oil used in the delivery of coal. We manage our fuel and natural gas supply costs through a portfolio of short and long-term procurement contracts with various suppliers for the purchase of coal, natural gas, and fuel oil. In addition, we manage the risk of price volatility through natural gas and electric hedging programs.

Embedded within our utilities' rates are amounts to recover fuel, natural gas, and purchased power costs. Our utilities have recovery mechanisms in place that generally allow them to recover or refund all or a portion of the changes in prudently incurred fuel, natural gas, and purchased power costs from rate case-approved amounts. See Item 1. Business – E. Regulation for more information on these mechanisms.

Higher commodity costs can increase our working capital requirements, result in higher gross receipts taxes, and lead to increased energy efficiency investments by our customers to reduce utility usage and/or fuel substitution. Higher commodity costs combined with slower economic conditions also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. See Note 5, Credit Losses, for more information on riders and other mechanisms that allow for cost recovery or refund of uncollectible expense.

Due to the cold temperatures, wind, snow and ice throughout the central part of the country during February 2021, the cost of gas purchased for our natural gas utility customers was temporarily driven higher than our normal winter weather expectations. As a result of this extreme weather event, we requested approval for the recovery of an additional $322 million of natural gas costs across our service territories, above what was either set as a benchmark in our respective GCRMs or included in rates. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on our recovery efforts associated with these costs.

Weather

Our utilities' rates are based upon estimated normal temperatures. Our electric utility margins are unfavorably sensitive to below normal temperatures during the summer cooling season and, to some extent, to above normal temperatures during the winter heating season. Our natural gas utility margins are unfavorably sensitive to above normal temperatures during the winter heating season. PGL, NSG, and MERC have decoupling mechanisms in place that help reduce the impacts of weather. Decoupling mechanisms differ by state and allow utilities to recover or refund certain differences between actual and authorized margins. A summary of actual weather information in our utilities' service territories during 2022 and 2021, as measured by degree days, can be found in Results of Operations.

Interest Rates

We are exposed to interest rate risk resulting from our short-term and long-term borrowings and projected near-term debt financing needs. We manage exposure to interest rate risk by limiting the amount of our variable rate obligations and continually monitoring the effects of market changes on interest rates. When it is advantageous to do so, we enter into long-term fixed rate debt. We may also enter into derivative financial instruments, such as swaps, to mitigate interest rate exposure.

Based on the variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2022 and 2021, a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of one percentage point would have increased annual interest expense by $21.4 million and $24.0 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. This sensitivity analysis was performed assuming a constant level of variable rate debt during the period and an immediate increase in interest rates, with no other changes for the remainder of the period.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 75 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Marketable Securities Return

We use various trusts to fund our pension and OPEB obligations. These trusts invest in debt and equity securities. Changes in the market prices of these assets can affect future pension and OPEB expenses. Additionally, future contributions can also be affected by the investment returns on trust fund assets. The financial risks associated with investment returns are mitigated at our Wisconsin utilities through the requirement that WE, WPS, and WG implement escrow accounting treatment for pension and OPEB costs in 2023 and 2024, as required by the December 2022 rate order issued by the PSCW. We also believe that the financial risks associated with investment returns would be partially mitigated at our other utilities through future rate actions by regulators. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on 2023 and 2024 rates at our Wisconsin utilities.

The fair value of our trust fund assets and expected long-term returns were approximately:

------------------- ----------------------- ------- --------------------------------- ---- -
(in millions) As of December 31, 2022 Expected Return on Assets in 2023
Pension trust funds $ 2,628.0 6.88 %
OPEB trust funds $ 835.3 7.00 %

Fiduciary oversight of the pension and OPEB trust fund investments is the responsibility of an Investment Trust Policy Committee. The Committee works with external actuaries and investment consultants on an ongoing basis to establish and monitor investment strategies and target asset allocations. Forecasted cash flows for plan liabilities are regularly updated based on annual valuation results. Target asset allocations are determined utilizing projected benefit payment cash flows and risk analyses of appropriate investments. The targeted asset allocations are intended to reduce risk, provide long-term financial stability for the plans, and maintain funded levels which meet long-term plan obligations while preserving sufficient liquidity for near-term benefit payments. Investment strategies utilize a wide diversification of asset types and qualified external investment managers.

We consult with our investment advisors on an annual basis to help us forecast expected long-term returns on plan assets by reviewing actual historical returns and calculating expected total trust returns using the weighted-average of long-term market returns for each of the major target asset categories utilized in the funds.

Economic Conditions

We have electric and natural gas utility operations that serve customers in Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Michigan. As such, we are exposed to market risks in the regional Midwest economy. In addition, any economic downturn or disruption of national or international markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products, which could affect their demand for our products.

Inflation and Supply Chain Disruptions

We continue to monitor the impact of inflation and supply chain disruptions. We monitor the costs of medical plans, fuel, transmission access, construction costs, regulatory and environmental compliance costs, and other costs in order to minimize inflationary effects in future years, to the extent possible, through pricing strategies, productivity improvements, and cost reductions. We monitor the global supply chain, and related disruptions, in order to ensure we are able to procure the necessary materials and other resources necessary to both maintain our energy services in a safe and reliable manner and to grow our infrastructure in accordance with our capital plan. For additional information concerning risks related to inflation and supply chain disruptions, see the three risk factors below.

•Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business – Our operations and corporate strategy may be adversely affected by supply chain disruptions and inflation.

•Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business – We are actively involved with multiple significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects.

•Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to Economic and Market Volatility – Fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 76 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
For additional information concerning other risk factors, including market risks, see the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information at the beginning of this report and Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies, as well as the use of estimates, assumptions, and judgments that could have a material impact on our financial statements and related disclosures. Judgments regarding future events may include the likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and regulatory challenges, and anticipated recovery of costs. Actual results may differ significantly from estimated amounts based on varying assumptions.

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The following is a list of accounting policies and estimates that require management's most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments and may change in subsequent periods.

Regulatory Accounting

Our utility operations follow the guidance under the Regulated Operations Topic of the FASB ASC (Topic 980). Our financial statements reflect the effects of the ratemaking principles followed by the various jurisdictions regulating us. Certain items that would otherwise be immediately recognized as revenues and expenses are deferred as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators.

Future recovery of regulatory assets, including the timeliness of recovery and our ability to earn a reasonable return, is not assured and is generally subject to review by regulators in rate proceedings for matters such as prudence and reasonableness. Once approved, the regulatory assets and liabilities are amortized into earnings over the rate recovery or refund period. If recovery or refund of costs is not approved or is no longer considered probable, these regulatory assets or liabilities are recognized in current period earnings. Management regularly assesses whether these regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of future recovery or refund by considering factors such as changes in the regulatory environment, earnings from our electric and natural gas utility operations, rate orders issued by our regulators, historical decisions by our regulators regarding regulatory assets and liabilities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation.

The application of the Regulated Operations Topic of the FASB ASC would be discontinued if all or a separable portion of our utility operations no longer met the criteria for application. Our regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off to income as an unusual or infrequently occurring item in the period in which discontinuation occurred. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, for more information on our regulatory assets and liabilities.

Goodwill

We completed our annual goodwill impairment tests for all of our reporting units that carried a goodwill balance as of July 1, 2022. No impairments were recorded as a result of these tests. For all of our reporting units, the fair values calculated in step one of the test were greater than their carrying values. The fair values for the reporting units were calculated using a combination of the income approach and the market approach. The income approach received a weighting of 60% while the market approach received a weighting of 40% to determine an overall valuation.

For the income approach, we used internal forecasts to project cash flows. Any forecast contains a degree of uncertainty, and changes in these cash flows could significantly increase or decrease the calculated fair value of a reporting unit. Since all of our reporting units are regulated, a fair recovery of and return on costs prudently incurred to serve customers is assumed. An unfavorable outcome in a rate case could cause the fair values of our reporting units to decrease.

Key assumptions used in the income approach include ROEs, the long-term growth rates used to determine terminal values at the end of the discrete forecast period, and the discount rates. The discount rate is applied to estimated future cash flows and is one of the most significant assumptions used to determine fair value under the income approach. As interest rates rise, the calculated fair values will decrease. The discount rate is based on the weighted-average cost of capital for each reporting unit, taking into account both the after-tax cost of debt and cost of equity. The terminal year ROE for each utility is driven by its current allowed ROE. The terminal growth rate is based primarily on a combination of historical and forecasted statistics for real gross domestic product and personal income for each utility service area.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 77 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
For the market approach, we used a higher weighting for the guideline public company method than the guideline merged and acquired company method due to a low number of mergers and acquisitions in recent years. The guideline public company method uses financial metrics from similar publicly traded companies to determine fair value. The guideline merged and acquired company method calculates fair value by analyzing the actual prices paid for recent mergers and acquisitions in the industry. We applied multiples derived from these two methods to the appropriate operating metrics for our reporting units to determine fair value.

The underlying assumptions and estimates used in the impairment tests were made as of a point in time. Subsequent changes in these assumptions and estimates could change the results of the tests.

For all of our reporting units that carried a goodwill balance at July 1, 2022, the fair value exceeded its carrying value by over 50%. Based on these results, our reporting units are not at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test.

See Note 10, Goodwill and Intangibles, for more information.

Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with ASC 980-360, Regulated Operations – Property, Plant, and Equipment, we periodically assess the recoverability of certain long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those long-lived assets may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the market price, a significant change in use, a regulatory decision related to recovery of assets from customers, adverse legal factors or a change in business climate, operating or cash flow losses, or an expectation that the asset might be sold or abandoned. See Note 1(k), Asset Impairment, for our policy on accounting for abandonments.

Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment by management in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets, and developing the undiscounted future cash flows. An impairment loss is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset in comparison to the fair value of the asset. The fair value of the asset is assessed using various methods, including recent comparable third-party sales for our nonregulated operations, internally developed discounted cash flow analysis, expected recovery of regulated assets, and analysis from outside advisors.

See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information on our generating units probable of being retired. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on our retired generating units, including various approvals we received from the FERC and the PSCW.

Pension and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits

The costs of providing non-contributory defined pension benefits and OPEB, described in Note 20, Employee Benefits, are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience.

Pension and OPEB costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels, and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plans, and earnings on plan assets. Pension and OPEB costs may also be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets, mortality and discount rates, and expected health care cost trends. Changes made to the plan provisions may also impact current and future pension and OPEB costs.

Pension and OPEB plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity and fixed income market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates, may result in increased or decreased benefit costs in future periods. Changes in benefit costs are mitigated at our Wisconsin utilities through the requirement that WE, WPS, and WG implement escrow accounting treatment for pension and OPEB costs in 2023 and 2024, as required by the December 2022 rate orders issued by the PSCW. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on 2023 and 2024 rates at our Wisconsin utilities. We believe that changes to benefit costs at our other utilities would be recovered or refunded through the ratemaking process.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 78 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
The following table shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the projected benefit obligation and the reported net periodic pension cost (including amounts capitalized to our balance sheets). Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only.

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ----- -------------------------- ------ - ----
Actuarial Assumption(in millions, except percentages) Percentage-Point Change in Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation Impact on 2022Pension Cost
Discount rate (0.5) $ 114.5 $ 17.8
Discount rate 0.5 (101.6) (11.1)
Rate of return on plan assets (0.5) N/A 14.8
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (14.8)

The following table shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the accumulated OPEB obligation and the reported net periodic OPEB cost (including amounts capitalized to our balance sheets). Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only.

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ---- ----------------------------------------- ----- - ---
Actuarial Assumption(in millions, except percentages) Percentage-Point Change in Assumption Impact on PostretirementBenefit Obligation Impact on 2022 PostretirementBenefit Cost
Discount rate (0.5) $ 19.2 $ 2.6
Discount rate 0.5 (17.2) (2.6)
Health care cost trend rate (0.5) (10.4) (3.8)
Health care cost trend rate 0.5 11.6 4.3
Rate of return on plan assets (0.5) N/A 4.9
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (4.9)

The discount rates are selected based on hypothetical bond portfolios consisting of noncallable, high-quality corporate bonds across the full maturity spectrum. From the hypothetical bond portfolios, a single rate is determined that equates the market value of the bonds purchased to the discounted value of the plans' expected future benefit payments.

We establish our expected return on assets based on consideration of historical and projected asset class returns, as well as the target allocations of the benefit trust portfolios. The assumed long-term rate of return on pension plan assets was 6.88% in 2022 and 2021, and 6.87% in 2020. The actual rate of return on pension plan assets, net of fees, was (14.03)%, 9.5%, and 12.65%, in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.

In selecting assumed health care cost trend rates, past performance and forecasts of health care costs are considered. For more information on health care cost trend rates and a table showing future payments that we expect to make for our pension and OPEB, see Note 20, Employee Benefits.

Unbilled Revenues

We record utility operating revenues when energy is delivered to our customers. However, the determination of energy sales to individual customers is based upon the reading of their meters, which occurs on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of their last meter reading are estimated and corresponding unbilled revenues are calculated.

Unbilled revenues are estimated each month based upon actual generation and throughput volumes, recorded sales, estimated customer usage by class, weather factors, estimated line losses, and applicable customer rates. Energy demand for the unbilled period or changes in rate mix due to fluctuations in usage patterns of customer classes could impact the accuracy of the unbilled revenue estimate. Total unbilled utility revenues were $663.1 million and $531.7 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The changes in unbilled revenues are primarily due to changes in the cost of natural gas, weather, and customer rates.

Income Tax Expense

Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred income tax assets. The assumptions involved are supported by historical data, reasonable projections, and interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations across multiple taxing jurisdictions. Significant changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on our

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 79 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
financial condition and results of operations. See Note 1(q), Income Taxes, and Note 16, Income Taxes, for a discussion of accounting for income taxes.

We are required to estimate income taxes for each of our applicable tax jurisdictions as part of the process of preparing consolidated financial statements. This process involves estimating current income tax liabilities together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, for income tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our balance sheets. We also assess the likelihood that our deferred income tax assets will be recovered through future taxable income. To the extent we believe that realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance, which is offset by an adjustment to income tax expense in our income statements.

Uncertainty associated with the application of tax statutes and regulations, the outcomes of tax audits and appeals, changes in income tax law, enacted tax rates or amounts subject to income tax, and changes in the regulatory treatment of any tax reform benefits requires that judgments and estimates be made in the accrual process and in the calculation of effective tax rates. Only income tax benefits that meet the "more likely than not" recognition threshold may be recognized or continue to be recognized. Unrecognized tax benefits are re-evaluated quarterly and changes are recorded based on new information, including the issuance of relevant guidance by the courts or tax authorities and developments occurring in the examinations of our tax returns.

We expect our 2023 annual effective tax rate to be between 13.0% and 14.0%. Our effective tax rate calculations are revised every quarter based on the best available year-end tax assumptions, adjusted in the following year after returns are filed. Tax accrual estimates are trued-up to the actual amounts claimed on the tax returns and further adjusted after examinations by taxing authorities, as needed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[see Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 21]:
NOTE 21: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company conducts its operations through three reportable operating segments: HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. In accordance with ASC 280 - Segment Reporting, the Company's segments maintain separate financial information for which results of operations are evaluated on a regular basis by the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Inter-company sales between segments are immaterial. *The HVAC segment provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating, cooling and ventilation needs of residential and commercial customers while enhancing building performance, health, energy efficiency and sustainability. *The Refrigeration segment includes transport refrigeration and monitoring products, services and digital solutions for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail, as well as commercial refrigeration products. *The Fire & Security segment provides a wide range of residential, commercial and industrial technologies designed to help protect people and property. 82 Table of Content The Company's customers are in both the public and private sectors and its businesses reflect extensive geographic diversification. Inter-company sales between segments are immaterial. Net sales and Operating profit by segment are as follows: -------------------------- --------- ------ ---------------- ------ ---- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- Net Sales Operating Profit (In millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 HVAC $ 13,408 $ 11,390 $ 9,478 $ 2,610 $ 1,738 $ 2,462 Refrigeration 3,883 4,127 3,333 483 476 357 Fire & Security 3,570 5,515 4,985 1,630 662 584 Total segment 20,861 21,032 17,796 4,723 2,876 3,403 Eliminations and other (440) (419) (340) (80) (96) (184) General corporate expenses -- -- -- (128) (135) (136) Consolidated $ 20,421 $ 20,613 $ 17,456 $ 4,515 $ 2,645 $ 3,083 Total assets are not presented for...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 21]:
NOTE 21: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company conducts its operations through three reportable operating segments: HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. In accordance with ASC 280 - Segment Reporting, the Company's segments maintain separate financial information for which results of operations are evaluated on a regular basis by the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Inter-company sales between segments are immaterial. *The HVAC segment provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating, cooling and ventilation needs of residential and commercial customers while enhancing building performance, health, energy efficiency and sustainability. *The Refrigeration segment includes transport refrigeration and monitoring products, services and digital solutions for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail, as well as commercial refrigeration products. *The Fire & Security segment provides a wide range of residential, commercial and industrial technologies designed to help protect people and property. 82 Table of Content The Company's customers are in both the public and private sectors and its businesses reflect extensive geographic diversification. Inter-company sales between segments are immaterial. Net sales and Operating profit by segment are as follows: -------------------------- --------- ------ ---------------- ------ ---- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- Net Sales Operating Profit (In millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 HVAC $ 13,408 $ 11,390 $ 9,478 $ 2,610 $ 1,738 $ 2,462 Refrigeration 3,883 4,127 3,333 483 476 357 Fire & Security 3,570 5,515 4,985 1,630 662 584 Total segment 20,861 21,032 17,796 4,723 2,876 3,403 Eliminations and other (440) (419) (340) (80) (96) (184) General corporate expenses -- -- -- (128) (135) (136) Consolidated $ 20,421 $ 20,613 $ 17,456 $ 4,515 $ 2,645 $ 3,083 Total assets are not presented for...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 88

[See Note 11]:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[See Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150

[See Note 15]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[See Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[see Note 9]:
Note 9. Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements mostly for certain of our offices, data centers, colocations, and land. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements mostly for certain network infrastructure. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2023 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Finance lease cost: Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 380 $ 344 $ 259 Interest 16 15 14 Operating lease cost 1,857 1,540 1,391 Variable lease cost and other, net 363 272 269 Total lease cost $ 2,616 $ 2,171 $ 1,933 During the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded $1.71 billion impairment loss for operating lease ROU assets as a part of our facilities consolidation restructuring efforts. For additional information, see Note 3 -- Restructuring. Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2022 2021 Weighted-average remaining lease term: Finance leases 14.4 years 13.9 years Operating leases 12.5 years 13.0 years Weighted-average discount rate: Finance leases 3.1 % 2.7 % Operating leases 3.2 % 2.8 % 106  The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): -------------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2023 $ 1,739 $ 146 2024 2,034 57 2025 1,771 57 2026 1,723 53 2027 1,699 52 Thereafter 11,801 ...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[see Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Includes 9605, 9645, 9675, 9685, 9725, 9735, 9808, 9855, and 9868 Scranton Road and 10055, 10065, and 10075 Barnes Canyon Road. (8)Includes 9965, 9975, 9985, and 9995 Summers Ridge Road. (9)In addition to the unconsolidated real estate joint ventures listed, we hold an interest in one other insignificant unconsolidated real estate joint venture in North America. (10)Represents our ownership interest; our voting interest is limited to 50%. (11)Represents a joint venture with a distinguished retail real estate developer for a retail shopping center aggregating 84,837 RSF. (12)Represents a joint venture with a local real estate operator in which our partner manages the day-to-day activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the joint venture. 127 The following table presents key terms related to our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures' secured loans as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ---------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- -------------------- ---------------- --------------- ------- - --------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ----- ----- Maturity Date Stated Rate Interest Rate(1) At 100% Our Share Unconsolidated Joint Venture Aggregate Commitment Debt Balance(2) 1401/1413 Research Boulevard 12/23/24 2.70% 3.33 % $ 28,500 $ 28,146 65.0% 1655 and 1725 Third Street 3/10/25 4.50% 4.57 % 600,000 599,081 10.0% 101 West Dickman Street 11/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.38 % 26,750 11,575 57.9% 1450 Research Boulevard 12/10/26 SOFR+1.95% (3) 6.44 % 13,000 3,802 73.2% $ 668,250 $ 642,604 (1)Includes interest expense and amortization of loan fees. (2)Represents outstanding principal, net of unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2022. (3)This loan is subject to a fixed SOFR floor rate of 0.75%. The following tables present information related to the operating results and financial positions of our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate joint ventures (in thousands): ---------------------------...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26. OPERATING SEGMENTS The Companies are organized primarily on the basis of products and services sold in the U.S. A description of the operations included in the Companies' primary operating segments is as follows: ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- --------------- -------------- Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet(1) X X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage(2) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Assets Nonregulated electric generation fleet(3) X Noncontrolling interest in Cove Point X (1) Includes Virginia Power's non-jurisdictional solar generation operations. (2) Includes renewable natural gas operations as well as Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations. (3) Includes solar generation facility development operations. In addition to the operating segments above, the Companies also report a Corporate and Other segment. Dominion Energy The Corporate and Other Segment of Dominion Energy includes its corporate, service company and other functions (including unallocated debt) as well as its noncontrolling interest in Dominion Privatization and its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations (prior to December 2021), including its noncontrolling interest in Wrangler (through March 2022). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy's operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments' performance or in allocating resources, as well as the net impact of the gas transmission and storage operations, including its noncontrolling interest in Atlantic...

[see Note 20]:
NOTE 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company is involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to the bankruptcy proceedings for Aldrich and Murray and environmental and product liability matters. The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when it is both probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Amounts recorded for identified contingent liabilities are estimates, which are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information when it becomes available. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities, except as expressly set forth in this note, management believes that any liability which may result from these legal matters would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows of the Company. Asbestos-Related Matters Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and former companies of the Company have been named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims were filed against predecessors of Aldrich and Murray and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by predecessors of Aldrich or Murray, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of the Company's existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos. On June 18, 2020, Aldrich and Murray filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to resolve equitably and permanently all current and future asbestos related claims in a manner beneficial to claimants and to Aldrich and Murray. As a result of the Chapter 11 filings, all asbestos-related lawsuits against Aldrich and Murray have been stayed due to th...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

[described in Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements.

F. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Our operations, especially as they relate to our coal-fired generating facilities, are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. Costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. Additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation related to GHG emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, water use, or wastewater discharges and other climate change issues, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs.

Anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and certain remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in Item 7. Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

['s carrying value may not be recoverable.

If goodwill or other long-lived assets are deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur a non-cash charge to earnings that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.

We may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses.

Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers and our contractors that are required to acquire and maintain insurance for our benefit. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 37 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We own our principal properties outright. However, the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains, and natural gas utility distribution mains and services are located on or under streets and highways, on land owned by others, and are generally subject to granted easements, consents, or permits.

A. REGULATED

Electric Facilities

The following table summarizes information on our electric generation facilities, including owned and jointly owned facilities, as of December 31, 2022:

------------------------------ ------------------- --------------- -------------------------- ------------------ ----- -------
Name Location Fuel Number of Generating Units Capacity In MW (1)
Coal-fired plants
Columbia Portage, WI Coal 2 311 (2)
ERGS Oak Creek, WI Coal 2 1,061 (3) (4)
OCPP Oak Creek, WI Coal 4 1,086
Weston Rothschild, WI Coal 2 720 (2)
Total coal-fired plants 10 3,178
Natural gas-fired plants
Concord Watertown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 366
De Pere Energy Center De Pere, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 165
Fox Energy Center Wrightstown, WI Natural Gas 3 577
Germantown Germantown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 5 273

F. D. Kuester Negaunee, MI Natural Gas 7 132
A. J. Mihm Baraga, MI Natural Gas 3 57
Paris Union Grove, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 359
PWGS Port Washington, WI Natural Gas 2 1,228 (4)
Pulliam Green Bay, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 81
VAPP Milwaukee, WI Natural Gas 2 267
West Marinette Marinette, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 147
Weston Rothschild, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 65
Total natural gas-fired plants 38 3,717 (5)
Renewables
Hydro plants (30 in number) WI and MI Hydro 81 97 (6) (7)
Rothschild Biomass Plant Rothschild, WI Biomass 1 46 (8)
Badger Hollow I WI Solar 41 100 (2)
Two Creeks WI Solar 48 100 (2)
Wind sites (5 in number) WI and IA Wind 350 498 (2)
Total renewables 521 841
Total system 569 7,736

(1)    Capacity for our electric generation facilities, other than wind and solar generating facilities, is based on rated capacity, which is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. Values are primarily based on the net dependable expected capacity ratings for summer 2023 established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. The summer period is the most relevant for capacity planning purposes. This is a result of continually reaching demand peaks in the summer months, primarily due to air conditioning demand. Capacity for wind generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds. Capacity for solar generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the maximum output that a generator should produce at continuous full power.

(2)    Certain of these facilities are jointly owned by WPS and various other utilities. The capacity indicated for each of these units is equal to WPS']:
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39

['s wind generating facilities as of December 31, 2022:

-------------------------------- --------------------------------------- -------------------------- ---------------------------- -------
Name Location Number of Generating Units Nameplate Capacity In MW (1)
Wind generating facilities
Bishop Hill III Henry County, Illinois 53 132.1
Upstream Antelope County, Nebraska 81 202.5
Coyote Ridge Brookings County, South Dakota 39 96.7
Blooming Grove McLean County, Illinois 94 250.0
Tatanka Ridge Deuel County, South Dakota 56 155.0
Jayhawk Bourbon and Crawford Counties, Kansas 70 197.4
Thunderhead Antelope and Wheeler Counties, Nebraska 108 300.0
Total wind generating facilities 501 1,333.7

(1)    Nameplate capacity is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds.

In February 2023, WECI completed the acquisition of a 90% ownership interest in Sapphire Sky, a commercially operational 250 MW wind generating facility in McLean County, Illinois.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The following should be read in conjunction with Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, in this report for additional information on material legal proceedings and matters related to us and our subsidiaries.

In addition to those legal proceedings discussed in Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, Note 26, Regulatory Environment, and below, we are currently, and from time to time, subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the results of these additional legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will not have a material impact on our financial statements.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 40 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Employee Retirement Savings Plan Matter

In May 2022, a putative class action, Munt, et al. v. WEC Energy Group, Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin - Milwaukee Division. The plaintiffs allege that WEC Energy Group, members of its Board of Directors, and others breached their fiduciary duties with respect to the operation and oversight of the Employee Retirement Saving Plan (the “Plan”) in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The class is alleged to be participants in the Plan from May 10, 2016 through the date of judgment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, interest, costs, and attorneys']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s other significant subsidiaries.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 43 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT']:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35

['s regulatory liabilities associated with transmission escrow balances, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

•A $19.3 million decrease in expense related to the earnings sharing mechanisms in place at our Wisconsin utilities, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•A $14.5 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense due to increases to certain regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2022 Wisconsin rate orders.

•An $8.6 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense during 2022, compared with 2021, related to certain COVID-19 expenditures.

•A $6.8 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense related to the We Power leases, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

•A $3.1 million decrease in other operating and maintenance expense related to our power plants, driven by increases to certain plant-related regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2022 Wisconsin rate orders. This decrease in expense was partially offset by increased maintenance at our plants, including a planned outage at the Weston power plant, and reductions in refined coal credits during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $2.8 million decrease in expense related to higher gains on land sales during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $2.4 million decrease in expense related to charitable projects supporting our customers and the communities within our service territories.

These decreases in other operating expenses were partially offset by:

•A $31.7 million increase in property and revenue taxes, driven by higher gross receipt and property taxes.

•A $29.3 million increase in electric and natural gas distribution expenses, primarily driven by higher costs to manage system reliability, for storm restoration, and for overall maintenance of our distribution system during 2022.

•A $27.8 million net increase in depreciation and amortization, driven by assets being placed into service as we continue to execute on our capital plan and an increase related to the We Power leases. These increases were partially offset by $10.2 million of deferred depreciation related to capital investments made by WG since it']:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

['s gas storage field.

•An $11.4 million increase in expenses associated with the settlement of legal claims.

•A $9.8 million increase in benefit costs, primarily due to higher pension and stock-based compensation costs.

•A $7.4 million increase in property and revenue taxes, primarily driven by an increase in the invested capital tax related to continued capital investment. This increase was offset in natural gas utility margins.

•A $6.9 million increase in customer service expense, primarily driven by higher call volumes.

These increases in operating expenses were partially offset by a $54.5 million pre-tax gain on the sale of certain real estate in Chicago. See Note 3, Dispositions, for more information.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the Illinois segment increased $6.8 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Illinois segment increased $7.2 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven primarily by $225.0 million and $100.0 million of long-term debt issuances in November 2021 and December 2022, respectively, and increased short-term debt interest rates.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Illinois segment increased $3.8 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by an increase in pre-tax income and a $1.3 million negative impact associated with previously unrecognized tax benefits recorded in 2021. See Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

Other States Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The other states segment']:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

['s CIP program, which has an offsetting increase in margins.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the other states segment increased $1.4 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the other states segment increased $7.7 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven primarily by the deferral of $4.9 million of interest expense during 2021, as approved by the MPSC to mitigate the impacts from delaying the filing of
MGU']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

['s traditional footprint.

Continued capital investment by ATC also contributed to the year-over-year increase in equity earnings.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the electric transmission segment increased $13.5 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by an increase in pre-tax income and a $3.3 million negative impact associated with a previously recorded reversal of a tax remeasurement in 2021.

Non-Utility Energy Infrastructure Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

-------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- - ----- ----- ----- - ----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operating income $ 372.8 $ 350.3 $ 22.5

Interest expense 68.9 71.0 2.1
Income before income taxes 303.9 279.3 24.6

Income tax expense (benefit) (20.9) 3.1 24.0
Net (income) loss attributed to noncontrolling interests (0.4) 3.0 (3.4)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 324.4 $ 279.2 $ 45.2

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 59 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Operating Income

Operating income at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment increased $22.5 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by:

•A $15.2 million positive impact from recognition of revenue related to our Upstream wind park in 2022 that was associated with market settlements received from SPP in February 2021. These settlements were subject to a FERC complaint, so we were not able to recognize them as revenue until the FERC issued an order denying that complaint in 2022.

•A $13.4 million positive impact from a sharing arrangement with one of our Blooming Grove customers resulting from strong energy prices.

These increases in operating income were partially offset by:

•A $5.1 million negative impact from higher operating losses at our Jayhawk wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2021. The site experienced operating losses in 2022 due to SPP reliability curtailments reducing output and transmission congestion reducing energy market prices.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment decreased $2.1 million during 2022, compared with 2021, primarily due to a lower principal balance as a result of the semi-annual principal payments on long-term debt.

Income Tax Expense (Benefit)

At the non-utility energy infrastructure segment, $20.9 million of income tax benefit was recorded during 2022, compared with $3.1 million of income tax expense recorded during 2021. The change was primarily due to a $30.3 million increase in PTCs in 2022, driven by the Jayhawk wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2021, higher generation at our other wind parks, and an increase in the PTC rate related to the PTC inflation adjustment issued by the IRS. This favorable change in the income tax benefit was partially offset by higher pre-tax earnings in 2022.

Corporate and Other Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ------ ---- ------ - ------ ----- ------ - ------
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operating loss $ (11.7) $ (18.9) $ 7.2

Other income, net 14.6 51.7 (37.1)
Interest expense 119.4 92.8 (26.6)
Loss on debt extinguishment — 36.3 36.3
Loss before income taxes (116.5) (96.3) (20.2)

Income tax benefit (45.7) (45.8) (0.1)
Net loss attributed to common shareholders $ (70.8) $ (50.5) $ (20.3)

Operating Loss

The operating loss at the corporate and other segment decreased $7.2 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by the resolution of a previously recorded liability as certain outstanding matters reached a favorable outcome in 2022.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the corporate and other segment decreased $37.1 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The decrease was driven by a $12.6 million net loss from the investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2022, compared with an $18.6 million net gain during 2021. The gains and losses from the investments held in the rabbi trust partially offset the changes in benefit costs related to deferred compensation, which are included in other operation and maintenance expense in our operating segments. See

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 60 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Note 17, Fair Value Measurements, for more information on our investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust. An $11.9 million decrease in earnings from our equity method investments in technology and energy-focused investment funds also contributed to the lower other income, net.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the corporate and other segment increased $26.6 million during 2022, compared with 2021, due to a $900.0 million long-term debt issuance in September 2022. See Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information. Also contributing to the increase was higher short-term debt interest rates.

Loss on Debt Extinguishment

There was no loss on debt extinguishment during 2022, as we did not refinance any debt obligations prior to maturity during 2022.

Income Tax Benefit

The income tax benefit at the corporate and other segment decreased $0.1 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by $10.3 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits recorded during 2021. This decrease in income tax benefit was offset by higher pre-tax loss and a $3.9 million increase in excess tax benefits recognized related to stock option exercises during 2022, compared with 2021.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

We expect to maintain adequate liquidity to meet our cash requirements for operation of our businesses and implementation of our corporate strategy through internal generation of cash from operations and access to the capital markets.

The following discussion and analysis of our Liquidity and Capital Resources includes comparisons of our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2022 with the year ended December 31, 2021. For a similar discussion that compares our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2021 with the year ended December 31, 2020, see Item 7. Management']:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 83

['s recent and planned investments in Sapphire Sky, Samson I, and Maple Flats. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information on these projects.

We expect to provide total capital contributions to ATC (not included in the above table) of approximately $244 million from 2023 through 2025. We do not expect to make any contributions to ATC Holdco during that period.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 65 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Long-Term Debt

A significant amount of cash is required to retire and pay interest on our long-term debt obligations. See Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information on our outstanding long-term debt, including a schedule of our long-term debt maturities over the next five years. The following table summarizes our required interest payments on long-term debt (excluding finance lease obligations) as of December 31, 2022:

--------------------------------------- ------------------------------- ------- ---------------- --------- ----- --------- ----------------- ------- - ----- - -------
 Interest Payments Due by Period
(in millions) Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years
Interest payments on long-term debt (1) $ 8,639.1 $ 578.2 $ 1,096.1 $ 940.4 $ 6,024.4

(1)    The interest due on our variable rate debt is based on the interest rates that were in effect on December 31, 2022.

Common Stock Dividends

On January 19, 2023, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.78 per share effective with the first quarter of 2023 dividend payment, an increase of 7.2%. This equates to an annual dividend of $3.12 per share. In addition, the Board of Directors affirmed our dividend policy that continues to target a dividend payout ratio of 65-70% of earnings.

We have been paying consecutive quarterly dividends dating back to 1942 and expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends in the future. Any payment of future dividends is subject to approval by our Board of Directors and is dependent upon future earnings, capital requirements, and financial and other business conditions. In addition, our ability as a holding company to pay common stock dividends primarily depends on the availability of funds received from our subsidiaries. Various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements impose certain restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances. We do not believe that these restrictions will materially affect our operations or limit any dividend payments in the foreseeable future. See Note 11, Common Equity, for more information related to these restrictions and our other common stock matters.

Other Significant Cash Requirements

Our utility and non-utility operations have purchase obligations under various contracts for the procurement of fuel, power, and gas supply, as well as the related storage and transportation. These costs are a significant component of funding our ongoing operations. See Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, for more information, including our minimum future commitments related to these purchase obligations.

In addition to our energy-related purchase obligations, we have commitments for other costs incurred in the normal course of business, including costs related to information technology services, meter reading services, maintenance and other service agreements for certain generating facilities, and various engineering agreements. Our estimated future cash requirements related to these purchase obligations are reflected below.

--------------- ---------------------- ----- ---------------- --------- ----- --------- ----------------- ----- - ---- - ----
 Payments Due by Period
(in millions) Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years
Purchase orders $ 526.2 $ 218.3 $ 223.8 $ 72.1 $ 12.0

We have various finance and operating lease obligations. Our finance lease obligations primarily relate to power purchase commitments and land leases for our solar projects. Our operating lease obligations are for office space and land. See Note 15, Leases, for more information, including an analysis of our minimum lease payments due in future years.

We make contributions to our pension and OPEB plans based upon various factors affecting us, including our liquidity position and tax law changes. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for our expected contributions in 2023 and our expected pension and OPEB payments for the next 10 years. We expect the majority of these future pension and OPEB payments to be paid from our outside trusts. See Sources of Cash–Investments in Outside Trusts below for more information.

In addition to the above, our balance sheet at December 31, 2022 included various other liabilities that, due to the nature of the liabilities, the amount and timing of future payments cannot be determined with certainty. These liabilities include AROs, liabilities

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 66 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
for the remediation of manufactured gas plant sites, and liabilities related to the accounting treatment for uncertainty in income taxes. For additional information on these liabilities, see Note 9, Asset Retirement Obligations, Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 16, Income Taxes, respectively.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are a party to various financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk as a part of our normal course of business, including financial guarantees and letters of credit that support construction projects, commodity contracts, and other payment obligations. We believe that these agreements do not have, and are not reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. For additional information, see Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, Note 19, Guarantees, and Note 23, Variable Interest Entities.

Sources of Cash

Liquidity

We anticipate meeting our short-term and long-term cash requirements to operate our businesses and implement our corporate strategy through internal generation of cash from operations and access to the capital markets, which allows us to obtain external short-term borrowings, including commercial paper and term loans, and intermediate or long-term debt securities. Cash generated from operations is primarily driven by sales of electricity and natural gas to our utility customers, reduced by costs of operations. Our access to the capital markets is critical to our overall strategic plan and allows us to supplement cash flows from operations with external borrowings to manage seasonal variations, working capital needs, commodity price fluctuations, unplanned expenses, and unanticipated events.

WEC Energy Group, WE, WPS, WG, and PGL maintain bank back-up credit facilities, which provide liquidity support for each company']:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[' equity $ 11,376.9 $ 11,626.9 $ 10,913.2 $ 11,163.2
Preferred stock of subsidiary 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4
Long-term debt (including current portion) 15,647.4 15,397.4 13,693.1 13,443.1
Short-term debt 1,647.1 1,647.1 1,897.0 1,897.0
Total capitalization $ 28,701.8 $ 28,701.8 $ 26,533.7 $ 26,533.7

Total debt $ 17,294.5 $ 17,044.5 $ 15,590.1 $ 15,340.1

Ratio of debt to total capitalization 60.3 % 59.4 % 58.8 % 57.8 %

Included in long-term debt on our balance sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, is $500.0 million principal amount of the 2007 Junior Notes. The adjusted presentation attributes $250.0 million of the 2007 Junior Notes to common shareholders']:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

['s ratings including its A3 senior unsecured rating and its P-2 short term rating for commercial paper. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the rate case decision.

Subject to other factors affecting the credit markets as a whole, we believe our current ratings should provide a significant degree of flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. However, these security ratings reflect the views of the rating agency only. An

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 68 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
explanation of the significance of these ratings may be obtained from the rating agency. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. Any rating can be revised upward or downward or withdrawn at any time by a rating agency.

FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Competitive Markets

Electric Utility Industry

The FERC supports large RTOs, which directly impacts the structure of the wholesale electric market. Due to the FERC']:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Figma On September 15, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we intend to acquire Figma, Inc. ("Figma") for approximately $20 billion, comprised of approximately half cash and half stock, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Approximately 6 million additional restricted stock units will be granted to Figma's Chief Executive Officer and employees that will vest over four years subsequent to closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions, and is expected to close in 2023. We will be required to pay Figma a reverse termination fee of $1 billion if the transaction fails to receive regulatory clearance, assuming all other closing conditions have been satisfied or waived, or if it fails to close within 18 months from September 15, 2022. Figma is a privately held company that provides a web-first collaborative product design platform. Following the closing, we intend to integrate Figma into our Digital Media reportable segment for financial reporting purposes. Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.24 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2022, we recorded purchase accounting adjustments that were not material based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions primarily in regards to the total purchase price and its related impact to goodwill. The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- --------------------...

[' rates are amounts to recover fuel, natural gas, and purchased power costs. Our utilities have recovery mechanisms in place that generally allow them to recover or refund all or a portion of the changes in prudently incurred fuel, natural gas, and purchased power costs from rate case-approved amounts. See Item 1. Business – E. Regulation for more information on these mechanisms.

Higher commodity costs can increase our working capital requirements, result in higher gross receipts taxes, and lead to increased energy efficiency investments by our customers to reduce utility usage and/or fuel substitution. Higher commodity costs combined with slower economic conditions also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. See Note 5, Credit Losses, for more information on riders and other mechanisms that allow for cost recovery or refund of uncollectible expense.

Due to the cold temperatures, wind, snow and ice throughout the central part of the country during February 2021, the cost of gas purchased for our natural gas utility customers was temporarily driven higher than our normal winter weather expectations. As a result of this extreme weather event, we requested approval for the recovery of an additional $322 million of natural gas costs across our service territories, above what was either set as a benchmark in our respective GCRMs or included in rates. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on our recovery efforts associated with these costs.

Weather

Our utilities']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[' expected future benefit payments.

We establish our expected return on assets based on consideration of historical and projected asset class returns, as well as the target allocations of the benefit trust portfolios. The assumed long-term rate of return on pension plan assets was 6.88% in 2022 and 2021, and 6.87% in 2020. The actual rate of return on pension plan assets, net of fees, was (14.03)%, 9.5%, and 12.65%, in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.

In selecting assumed health care cost trend rates, past performance and forecasts of health care costs are considered. For more information on health care cost trend rates and a table showing future payments that we expect to make for our pension and OPEB, see Note 20, Employee Benefits.

Unbilled Revenues

We record utility operating revenues when energy is delivered to our customers. However, the determination of energy sales to individual customers is based upon the reading of their meters, which occurs on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of their last meter reading are estimated and corresponding unbilled revenues are calculated.

Unbilled revenues are estimated each month based upon actual generation and throughput volumes, recorded sales, estimated customer usage by class, weather factors, estimated line losses, and applicable customer rates. Energy demand for the unbilled period or changes in rate mix due to fluctuations in usage patterns of customer classes could impact the accuracy of the unbilled revenue estimate. Total unbilled utility revenues were $663.1 million and $531.7 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The changes in unbilled revenues are primarily due to changes in the cost of natural gas, weather, and customer rates.

Income Tax Expense

Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred income tax assets. The assumptions involved are supported by historical data, reasonable projections, and interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations across multiple taxing jurisdictions. Significant changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on our

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 79 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
financial condition and results of operations. See Note 1(q), Income Taxes, and Note 16, Income Taxes, for a discussion of accounting for income taxes.

We are required to estimate income taxes for each of our applicable tax jurisdictions as part of the process of preparing consolidated financial statements. This process involves estimating current income tax liabilities together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, for income tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our balance sheets. We also assess the likelihood that our deferred income tax assets will be recovered through future taxable income. To the extent we believe that realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance, which is offset by an adjustment to income tax expense in our income statements.

Uncertainty associated with the application of tax statutes and regulations, the outcomes of tax audits and appeals, changes in income tax law, enacted tax rates or amounts subject to income tax, and changes in the regulatory treatment of any tax reform benefits requires that judgments and estimates be made in the accrual process and in the calculation of effective tax rates. Only income tax benefits that meet the "]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

["

Common Stock Dividends of WEC Energy Group

We review our dividend policy on a regular basis. Subject to any regulatory restrictions or other limitations on the payment of dividends, future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other factors, earnings, financial condition, and other requirements. For more information on our dividends, including restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends, see Note 11, Common Equity.

ITEM 6. RESERVED

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 44 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT']:
Note 11 - Debt The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------- ------ - --------- ------ ----------- ----------- -------------- ------------- ----- -------------- - -------------- ---------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2024 Notes $ -- $ 37 $ 37 $ -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- -- -- 2,266 Not applicable July 2023 Solar Bonds -- 7 7 -- 4.70-5.75 % March 2025 - January 2031 Total recourse debt -- 44 44 2,266 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 984 613 1,603 -- 0.36-4.64 % December 2023-September 2025 Solar Asset-backed Notes 4 13 17 -- 4.80 % December 2026 Cash Equity Debt 28 359 397 -- 5.25-5.81 % July 2033-January 2035 Automotive Lease-backed Credit Facilities -- -- -- 151 Not applicable September 2024 Total non-recourse debt 1,016 985 2,017 151 Total debt 1,016 1,029 $ 2,061 $ 2,417 Finance leases 486 568 Total debt and finance leases $ 1,502 $ 1,597 The following is a summary of our debt and finance leases as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): ----------------------------------------- ------------------ - ----- --------- ------ - - --------- ------ ----------- - ----------- -------------- ------------- - ----- --------- -------------- - ------------------------- ----------------------------- Unpaid Unused Net Carrying Value Principal Committed Contractual Contractual Current Long-Term Balance Amount (1) Interest Rates Maturity Date Recourse debt: 2022 Notes $ 29 $ -- $ 29 $ -- 2.375 % March 2022 2024 Notes 1 89 91 -- 2.00 % May 2024 Credit Agreement -- 1,250 1,250 920 3.25 % July 2023 Solar Bonds 0 7 7 -- 4.00-5.75 % January 2022-January 2031 Total recourse debt 30 1,346 1,377 920 Non-recourse debt: Automotive Asset-backed Notes 1,007 1,706 2,723 -- 0.12-5.48 % September 2022-September 2025 So...

[" mission, we have an ultimate goal of zero incidents, accidents, and injuries. Management and union leadership work together to reinforce the Target Zero culture. We set annual goals for safety results as well as measurable leading indicators, in order to raise awareness of at-risk behaviors and situations and guide injury-prevention activities. All employees are encouraged to report unsafe conditions or incidents that could have led to an injury. Injuries and tasks with high levels of risk are assessed, and findings and best practices are shared across our companies.

Our corporate safety program provides a forum for addressing employee concerns, training employees and contractors on current safety standards, and recognizing those who demonstrate a safety focus.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations includes comparisons of our results for the year ended December 31, 2022 with the year ended December 31, 2021. For a similar discussion that compares our results for the year ended December 31, 2021 with the year ended December 31, 2020, see Item 7. Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

['s contribution to net income attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $39.7 million, representing a $3.9 million, or 10.9%, increase over the prior year. The increase was driven by higher natural gas margins due to a rate increase at MGU, effective January 1, 2022, and higher sales volumes during 2022, compared with 2021. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in operating expenses, as well as interest expense, as discussed below.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 56 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Since the majority of MERC and MGU customers use natural gas for heating, net income attributed to common shareholders is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months.

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---- ----- - ----- ----- ------ - ----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Natural gas revenues $ 618.5 $ 519.0 $ 99.5
Cost of natural gas sold 391.6 319.3 (72.3)
Total natural gas margins 226.9 199.7 27.2

Other operation and maintenance 98.5 90.4 (8.1)
Depreciation and amortization 40.9 38.1 (2.8)
Property and revenue taxes 23.3 18.8 (4.5)
Operating income 64.2 52.4 11.8

Other income, net 2.5 1.1 1.4
Interest expense 13.9 6.2 (7.7)
Income before income taxes 52.8 47.3 5.5

Income tax expense 13.1 11.5 (1.6)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 39.7 $ 35.8 $ 3.9

The following table shows a breakdown of other operation and maintenance:

------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---- ---- ---- - ---- ----- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31
(in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Operation and maintenance not included in line items below $ 77.8 $ 70.5 $ (7.3)
Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses (1) 20.7 19.8 (0.9)
Other — 0.1 0.1
Total other operation and maintenance $ 98.5 $ 90.4 $ (8.1)

(1)    Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses are substantially offset in margins and therefore do not have a significant impact on net income.

The following tables provide information on delivered sales volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---- ------- ----- -----
 Year Ended December 31

Natural Gas Sales Volumes (Therms - in millions) 2022 2021 B (W)
Customer Class
Residential 353.1 301.1 52.0
Commercial and industrial 227.6 188.5 39.1
Total retail 580.7 489.6 91.1
Transportation 794.8 801.6 (6.8)
Total sales in therms 1,375.5 1,291.2 84.3

------------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- ----- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31

Weather (Degree Days) (1) 2022 2021 B (W)
MERC
Heating (7,973 Normal) 8,585 7,440 15.4 %

MGU
Heating (6,177 Normal) 6,277 5,755 9.1 %

(1)    Normal heating degree days for MERC and MGU are based on a 20-year moving average and 15-year moving average, respectively, of monthly temperatures from various weather stations throughout their respective territories.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 57 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Natural Gas Revenues

Natural gas revenues increased $99.5 million during 2022, compared with 2021. Because prudently incurred natural gas costs are passed through to our customers in current rates, the changes are offset by comparable changes in revenues. The average per-unit cost of natural gas sold increased approximately 4.0% during 2022, compared with 2021. The remaining drivers of changes in natural gas revenues are described in the discussion of margins below.

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins increased $27.2 million during 2022, compared with 2021. The increase in margins was primarily driven by:

•A $13.0 million increase related to the new rates at MGU that went into effect in 2022. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•A $9.3 million increase related to higher sales volumes due to both continued economic recovery and colder weather during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $2.6 million increase related to MERC']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s ERGS units. See Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, for more information on the wastewater treatment system modifications.

See Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Requirements – Significant Capital Projects below for more information.

Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities increased $382.4 million during 2022, compared with 2021, driven by:

•A $1,168.3 million increase in cash due to a decrease in retirements of long-term debt during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $340.0 million increase in cash due to a repayment of a 364-day term loan during 2021.

•A $51.6 million increase in cash due to a decrease in payments for debt extinguishment and issuance costs during 2022, compared with 2021.

•A $17.9 million increase in cash received from the exercise of stock options during 2022, compared with 2021.

These increases in net cash provided by financing activities were partially offset by:

•A $711.8 million decrease in cash due to $252.6 million of net repayments of commercial paper during 2022, compared with $459.2 million of net borrowings of commercial paper during 2021.

•A $384.5 million decrease in cash due to lower issuances of long-term debt during 2022, compared with the same period in 2021.

•A $63.1 million decrease in cash due to higher dividends paid on our common stock during 2022, compared with 2021. In January 2022, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by $0.05 per share (7.4%) effective with the March 2022 dividend payment.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2022 Form 10-K 63 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•A $36.1 million decrease in cash due to an increase in common stock purchased during 2022, compared with 2021, to satisfy requirements of our stock-based compensation plans.

Significant Financing Activities

For more information on our financing activities, see Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, and Note 14, Long-Term Debt.

Cash Requirements

We require funds to support and grow our businesses. Our significant cash requirements primarily consist of capital and investment expenditures, payments to retire and pay interest on long-term debt, the payment of common stock dividends to our shareholders, and the funding of our ongoing operations. Our significant cash requirements are discussed in further detail below.

Significant Capital Projects

We have several capital projects that will require significant capital expenditures over the next three years and beyond. All projected capital requirements are subject to periodic review and may vary significantly from estimates, depending on a number of factors. These factors include environmental requirements, regulatory restraints and requirements, changes in tax laws and regulations, acquisition and development opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, supply chain disruptions, inflation, and interest rates. Our estimated capital expenditures and acquisitions for the next three years are reflected below. These amounts include anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and certain remediation issues. For a discussion of certain environmental matters affecting us, see Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies.

--------------------------------- ----- ------- ---- ----- ---- ------- ----- - -------
(in millions) 2023 2024 2025
Wisconsin $ 2,530.7 $ 2,432.8 $ 2,445.5
Illinois 557.1 659.5 614.0
Other states 111.8 115.0 104.7
Non-utility energy infrastructure 747.0 683.8 217.2
Corporate and other 28.1 17.0 2.7
Total $ 3,974.7 $ 3,908.1 $ 3,384.1

Our utilities continue to upgrade their electric and natural gas distribution systems to enhance reliability. These upgrades include addressing our aging infrastructure and system hardening and the AMI program. AMI is an integrated system of smart meters, communication networks, and data management systems that enable two-way communication between utilities and customers.

We are committed to investing in solar, wind, battery storage, and clean natural gas-fired generation. Below are examples of projects that are proposed or currently underway.

•We have received approval to invest in 100 MW of utility-scale solar within our Wisconsin segment. WE has partnered with an unaffiliated utility to construct a solar project, Badger Hollow II, that will be located in Iowa County, Wisconsin. Once constructed, WE will own 100 MW of this project. WE']:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 150
