================================================================================
CIK: 0001075531
Company Name: Booking Holdings Inc
Filing Date: 2023-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-03 11:43:58
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes to those statements, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in any forward-looking statements, which may be due to factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates.

Overview

Our mission is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. We connect consumers who wish to make travel reservations with travel service providers around the world through our online platforms. We offer these services through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, Priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK, and OpenTable. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our operating segments. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to revenue by geographic area.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from enabling consumers to make travel service reservations. We also earn revenues from advertising services, restaurant reservations and restaurant management services, and various other services, such as travel-related insurance revenues.

Trends

The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of travel restrictions by governments around the world resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services. Accommodation room nights, which include the impact of cancellations, declined rapidly as the COVID-19 pandemic spread in 2020. Since the beginning of the second quarter of 2020 and through 2022, changes in accommodation room nights versus the comparable period in 2019 have generally improved as government-imposed travel restrictions have eased, vaccines and other medical interventions have become more widespread, and consumer demand for travel has generally rebounded. In 2021, room nights were 66% higher than in 2020 but still 30% lower than in 2019. On a regional basis, considering where the traveler is booking from, North America was the only region in 2021 to have room nights increase versus 2019. In 2022, global room nights were 52% higher than in 2021 and 6% higher than in 2019. The year-over-year growth in room nights in 2022 was driven primarily by the continued recovery in Europe, Asia, and Rest of World, as well as by continued growth in North America.

37

The comparison of room nights in 2021 and 2022 to the comparable period in 2019 avoids the distortion created from comparing to a prior year period that was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Quarterly Room Nights and Change versus 2019

In early March 2022, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we suspended the booking of travel services in Russia and Belarus. This led to the loss of new bookings from bookers in these countries. Excluding room nights from bookers in Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus in both 2022 and 2019, our overall room nights in 2022 were up about 10% versus 2019.

We have observed an improvement in cancellation rates since the high in April 2020, though we have seen periods of elevated cancellation rates typically coinciding with significant increases in COVID-19 cases and newly imposed travel restrictions. The cancellation rate in 2022 improved compared to the cancellation rates in 2021 and 2019. In 2022, a higher share of our room nights were booked with flexible cancellation policies, as compared to 2019 and 2021, which could result in higher cancellation rates in future periods.

Because we recognize revenue from bookings when the traveler checks in, our reported revenue is not at risk of being reversed due to cancellations. Increases in cancellation rates can negatively impact our marketing efficiency as a result of incurring performance marketing expense at the time a booking is made even though that booking could be canceled in the future if it was booked under a flexible cancellation policy. There are many factors in addition to cancellation rates that contribute to marketing efficiency including average daily rates ("ADRs"), costs per click, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking consumers, the timing and effectiveness of our brand marketing campaigns, and the extent to which consumers come directly to our platforms for bookings. Significant increases in cancellation rates such as those experienced during the second quarter of 2020 may increase our customer service costs.

38

Since the second quarter of 2020, government-imposed travel restrictions have generally limited international travel (travelers booking a stay at a property located outside their own country) more than domestic travel (travelers booking a stay within their own country). We believe the continued easing of government-imposed travel restrictions in many countries throughout the world in 2022 helped drive an increase in the mix of our room nights booked for international travel versus 2021, however, the mix remained below 2019 levels.

We saw an increase in the mix of our room nights booked on a mobile device in 2022 compared to 2019. When comparing 2022 to 2021, we saw a decrease in the mix of our room nights booked on a mobile device in 2022 due to a year-over-year increase in the mix of our room nights booked for international travel and a year-over-year expansion of the booking window. Room nights booked on a mobile device generally have a lower mix of international travel and a shorter booking window than room nights booked on a desktop. The mix of our room nights booked on a mobile app in 2022 was above 2019 and 2021. We continue to see favorable repeat direct booking behavior from consumers in our mobile apps, which allow us more opportunities to engage directly with consumers. The revenue earned on a transaction from a mobile device may be less than a typical desktop transaction as we see different consumer purchasing patterns across devices. For example, accommodation reservations made on a mobile device typically are for shorter lengths of stay and have lower accommodation ADRs.

Our global ADRs increased approximately 25%, on a constant currency basis, in 2022 as compared to 2019, driven primarily by higher ADRs for accommodations located in Europe as well as increases in ADRs across all other regions as compared to 2019. In addition, we estimate that our global ADRs in 2022, as compared to 2019, benefited by approximately two percentage points from changes in the geographical mix of our business driven primarily by slower room night recovery in Asia, which is a low ADR region, and stronger room night performance in North America, which is a high ADR region. Our global ADRs increased approximately 15%, on a constant currency basis, in 2022 as compared to 2021, driven primarily by higher ADRs in Europe as well as increases in ADRs across all other regions as compared to 2021. The increase in our global ADRs in 2022, as compared to 2021, was negatively impacted by approximately three percentage points from changes in geographical mix in our business driven primarily by stronger year-over-year room night growth in Asia and lower year-over-year room night growth in North America.

Prior to the COVID-19 outbreak, we observed a trend of declining constant-currency accommodation ADRs partially driven by the negative impact of the changing geographical mix of our business (e.g., lower ADR regions like Asia were generally growing faster than higher ADR regions like Western Europe and North America) as well as pricing pressures within local markets from time to time. Those declining ADR trends resulted in accommodation gross bookings growing less than room nights. As the travel market continues to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and with all regions experiencing general inflation in prices, we have seen travel industry ADRs generally increasing from pandemic lows in 2020. While our ADRs have continued to increase in 2022 as compared to 2019, it remains highly uncertain what the trend in industry ADRs will look like going forward.

We focus on relentless innovation to grow our business by, among other things, providing a best-in-class user experience with intuitive, easy-to-use online platforms to ensure that we are meeting the needs of online consumers while aiming to exceed their expectations. As part of these ongoing efforts, we have a long-term strategy to build a seamless offering of multiple elements of travel, allowing us to provide a more tailored and flexible consumer experience, which we refer to as the "Connected Trip," and we expect these efforts to increase room night growth and revenue growth over time. We may see a negative impact on our operating margins in the near term as we incur the expenses associated with Connected Trip-related investments. Further, to the extent our non-accommodation services (e.g., airline ticket reservation services) have lower margins and increase as a percentage of our total business, our operating margins may be negatively affected.

As part of our strategy to provide more payment options to consumers and travel service providers, increase the number and variety of accommodations available on Booking.com, and enable our long-term Connected Trip strategy, Booking.com increasingly processes transactions on a merchant basis, where it facilitates payments from travelers for the services provided. This allows Booking.com to process transactions for travel service providers and to increase its ability to offer secure and flexible transaction terms to consumers, such as the form and timing of payment. We believe that expanding these types of service offerings will benefit consumers and travel service providers, as well as our gross bookings, room night, and earnings growth rates. However, this results in additional expenses for personnel, payment processing, chargebacks (including those related to fraud), and other expenses related to these transactions, which are recorded in "Personnel" and "Sales and other expenses" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, as well as associated incremental revenues (e.g., credit card rebates), which are recorded in "Merchant revenues." To the extent more of our business is generated on a merchant basis, we incur a greater level of these merchant-related expenses, which negatively impacts our operating margins despite increases in associated incremental revenues. The mix of our gross bookings generated on a merchant basis was 44% in 2022, an increase from 34% in 2021 and 27% in 2019.

39

We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns. Our total marketing expenses, which are comprised of performance and brand marketing expenses that are substantially variable in nature, were $6.0 billion in 2022, up 58% versus 2021 and up 21% versus 2019 as a result of the improving demand environment and our efforts to invest in marketing. Our performance marketing expense, which represents a substantial majority of our marketing expense, is primarily related to the use of online search engines (primarily Google), meta-search and travel research services, and affiliate marketing to generate traffic to our platforms. Our brand marketing expense is primarily related to costs associated with producing and airing television advertising, online video advertising (for example, on YouTube and Facebook), and online display advertising.

Marketing efficiency, expressed as marketing expense as a percentage of gross bookings, and performance marketing returns on investment ("ROIs") are impacted by a number of factors that are subject to variability and are in some cases outside of our control, including ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign currency exchange rates, our ability to convert paid traffic to booking customers, and the timing and effectiveness of our brand marketing campaigns. In recent years, we observed periods of stable or increasing ROIs. Although it is difficult to predict how performance marketing ROIs will change in the future, ROIs could be negatively impacted by increased levels of competition and other factors. When evaluating our performance marketing spend, we typically consider several factors for each channel, such as the customer experience on the advertising platform, the incremental traffic we receive, and anticipated repeat rates.

Marketing efficiency can also be impacted by the extent to which consumers come directly to our platforms for bookings. Marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross bookings in 2022 were lower than 2019 despite lower performance marketing ROIs due to an increase in the share of room nights booked by consumers coming directly to our platforms. Performance marketing ROIs were lower in 2022 versus 2019 due to our efforts to invest in marketing during the recovery in the travel industry in 2022. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our platforms and grow our business," and "Our business could be negatively affected by changes in online search and meta-search algorithms and dynamics or traffic-generating arrangements."

Historically, our growth has primarily been generated by the worldwide accommodation reservation business of Booking.com due in part to the availability of a large number of properties through Booking.com. Booking.com included over 2.7 million properties on its website at December 31, 2022, consisting of over 400,000 hotels, motels, and resorts and approximately 2.3 million alternative accommodation properties (including homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay), and representing an increase from approximately 2.4 million properties at December 31, 2021. The year-over-year increase in total properties was driven primarily by an increase in alternative accommodation properties.

The mix of Booking.com’s room nights booked for alternative accommodation properties in 2022 was approximately 30%, up slightly versus 2019 and 2021. We have observed an overall longer-term trend of an increasing mix of room nights booked for alternative accommodation properties as consumer demand for these types of properties has grown, and as we have increased the number and variety of alternative accommodation properties available to consumers on Booking.com. We may experience lower profit margins due to additional costs, such as increased customer service costs, related to offering alternative accommodations on our platforms. As our alternative accommodation business has grown, these different characteristics have negatively impacted our profit margins and this trend may continue.

Although we believe that providing an extensive collection of properties, excellent customer service, and an intuitive, easy-to-use consumer experience are important factors influencing a consumer's decision to make a reservation, for many consumers, the price of the travel service is the primary factor determining whether a consumer will book a reservation. Discounting and couponing (i.e., merchandising) occurs across all of the major regions in which we operate, particularly in Asia. In some cases, our competitors are willing to make little or no profit on a transaction, or offer travel services at a loss, in order to gain market share. As a result, it is increasingly important to offer travel services, such as accommodation reservations, at a competitive price, whether through discounts, coupons, closed-user group rates or loyalty programs, increased flexibility in cancellation policies, or otherwise. These initiatives have resulted and, in the future, may result in lower ADRs and lower revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Total revenue as a percentage of gross bookings was negatively impacted by investments in merchandising in 2022 compared to 2021 and 2019.

Many taxing authorities are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues and have targeted large multinational technology companies in these efforts. As a result, many countries and some U.S. states have implemented or are considering the adoption of a digital services tax or similar tax that imposes a tax on revenue earned from digital advertisements or the use of online platforms, even when there is no physical presence in the jurisdiction. Currently, rates for this tax range from 1.5% to 10% of revenue deemed generated in the jurisdiction. The digital services taxes currently in effect, which we record in "General and administrative" expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, have negatively impacted our

40

results of operations. While the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has been working on multinational tax changes that could require all member parties to remove all digital services taxes, the timing for completion of that project has been delayed and many details remain uncertain. If that project is significantly delayed or not completed more countries could implement digital services taxes, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities."

Increased regulatory focus on online businesses, including online travel businesses like ours, could result in increased compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, the Digital Markets Act ("DMA") and Digital Services Act ("DSA") give regulators in the EU more instruments to investigate and regulate digital businesses and impose new rules and requirements on platforms designated as "gatekeepers" under the DMA and online platforms more generally, with separate rules for "Very Large Online Platforms" under the DSA. For more information on the impacts of regulations on our business, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "Our business is subject to various competition/anti-trust, consumer protection, and online commerce laws, rules, and regulations around the world, and as the size of our business grows, scrutiny of our business by legislators and regulators in these areas may intensify."

Our businesses outside of the U.S. (see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements) represent a substantial majority of our financial results, but because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our businesses outside of the U.S. are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. For example, the U.S. Dollar strengthened in 2022 versus both the Euro and British Pound Sterling by 11% and 10%, respectively, as compared to 2021. As a
result of the movements in foreign currency exchange rates, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our    foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected. Our total revenues increased by 56% in 2022 as compared to 2021, but without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates our total revenue increased year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 71%. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. We designate certain portions of the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in certain Euro functional currency subsidiaries. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes are recognized in "Other income (expense), net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Notes 12 and 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Such foreign currency transaction gains or losses are dependent on the amount of net assets of the Euro functional currency subsidiaries, the amount of the Euro-denominated debt that is designated as a hedge, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates."

We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our derivative contracts.

Other Factors

Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology, and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. In recent years, we have experienced pressure on operating margins as we invested in initiatives to drive future growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, including exploring strategic alternatives such as acquisitions.

The competition for technology talent in our industry is intense, including among established technology companies, startups, and companies transitioning to digital, and this level of competition could continue in the future. As a result of the competitive labor market and inflationary pressure on compensation, our personnel expenses to attract and retain key talent are increasing, which may adversely affect our results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We rely on the performance of highly skilled employees; and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key employees or hire, retain, and motivate well-qualified employees, our business would be harmed."

41

Outlook

In January 2023, we saw an improvement in the monthly room night growth rate versus 2019 relative to the fourth quarter of 2022, with room nights growing about 26% versus January 2019, driven primarily by improvements in Europe, Rest of World, and Asia. On a year-over-year basis, room night growth in January 2023 was 60%, due in part to the negative impact of the Omicron variant on January 2022 room nights. While there continues to be uncertainty around the month to month trends, we assume that room night growth in the first quarter of 2023 will grow by over 30% relative to the first quarter of 2022. Given that assumption for room night growth, we expect the following for the first quarter of 2023:
•the year-over-year growth in gross bookings will be about four percentage points better than the year-over-year growth in room nights;
•revenues as a percentage of gross bookings will be higher than it was in the first quarter of 2022; and
•operating profit will be higher than in the first quarter of 2022.

For the full year, assuming gross bookings increase in 2023 compared to 2022 by a low teens percentage, we expect the following for full-year 2023:
•revenues as a percentage of gross bookings will be higher than it was in 2022; and
•operating profit will be higher than in 2019 and 2022.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. We use our judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of `certain estimates and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Estimates are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Matters that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following:

Valuation of Investments in Private Companies

See Notes 2, 5, and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the investments in private companies and information on fair value measurements, including the three levels of inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value. When inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly (observable market data), are available at the measurement date and are not significantly adjusted using unobservable inputs, the observable inputs would be classified as Level 2 inputs. When little or no market data is available, the fair value of these investments are measured using unobservable inputs ("Level 3 inputs").

Our investments measured using Level 3 inputs primarily consist of investments in privately-held companies that were classified as either debt securities or equity securities without readily determinable fair values. Fair values of privately held securities are estimated using a variety of valuation methodologies, including both market and income approaches. We use valuation techniques appropriate for the type of investment and the information available about the investee as of the valuation date to determine fair value. Recent financing transactions in the investee are generally considered the best indication of the enterprise value and therefore used as a basis to estimate fair value. However, based on a number of factors, such as the proximity to the valuation date or the volume or other terms of these financing transactions, we may also use other valuation techniques to supplement this data, including the income approach. When a recent financing transaction occurs and represents fair value, we also use the calibration process, as appropriate, when estimating fair value on subsequent measurement dates. Calibration is the process of using observed transactions in the investee company's own instruments to ensure that the valuation techniques that will be employed to value the investee company investment on subsequent measurement dates begin with assumptions that are consistent with the original observed transaction as well as any more recent observed transactions in the instruments issued by the investee company.

In July 2021, Yanolja announced a new round of funding which was completed in October 2021 along with certain other transactions. As a result of these observable transactions, we increased the carrying value of our investment in Yanolja to

42

$306 million as of December 31, 2021. During the three months ended June 30, 2022, considering the significant adverse changes in the market valuations of companies in the travel and technology industries, we evaluated our investment in Yanolja for impairment and recognized an impairment charge of $184 million resulting in an adjusted carrying value of $122 million at June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2022. As discussed below, we used unobservable inputs to determine fair value. We used a combination of the market approach and the income approach in estimating the fair value of our investment in Yanolja as of June 30, 2022. The market approach estimates value using prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable companies. The income approach estimates value based on the expectation of future cash flows that a company will generate. These future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a discount rate based on a company’s weighted-average cost of capital, and is adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in its cash flows. The key unobservable inputs and ranges used in estimating the fair value of our investment in Yanolja as of June 30, 2022 include, for the market approach, percentage decrease in the calibrated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") multiple (36%) and for the income approach, the weighted average cost of capital (10%-14%) and terminal EBITDA multiple (14x-16x). Significant changes in any of these inputs in isolation would result in significantly different fair value measurements. Generally, a change in the assumption used for EBITDA multiples would result in a directionally similar change in the fair value and a change in the assumption used for weighted average cost of capital would result in a directionally opposite change in the fair value.

The determination of the fair values of investments in private companies, where we are a minority shareholder and have access to limited information from the investee, reflects numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including key assumptions regarding the investee’s expected growth rates and operating margin, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates and market comparables. It requires significant judgments and estimates and actual results could be materially different than those judgments and estimates used. Future events and changing market conditions may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions reflected in our valuation, which may result in a need to recognize additional impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Valuation of Goodwill and other Long-lived Assets

The application of the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Our estimates of the fair value are based upon assumptions that we believe are reasonable. When we deem appropriate, we utilize assistance from third-party valuation firms. The consideration transferred is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective values at the acquisition date. The excess of the consideration transferred over the net of the amounts allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.

A substantial portion of our intangible assets and goodwill relates to the acquisitions of OpenTable, KAYAK, and Getaroom. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the acquisition of Getaroom in December 2021.

We review long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based upon the ability to recover the carrying value of the assets from the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, before interest and taxes, of the related asset group.

We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We test goodwill at a reporting unit level and our annual goodwill impairment tests are performed as of September 30. As of September 30, 2022, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and concluded that there was no impairment of goodwill.

The estimation of fair values of our reporting units reflect numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including key assumptions regarding each reporting unit’s expected growth rates and operating margin and the competitive environment, as well as other key assumptions with respect to matters outside of our control, such as discount rates and market comparables. Generally, changes in the assumptions used for comparable company multiples would result in directionally similar changes in the fair value and changes in the assumptions used for discount rates would result in directionally opposite changes in the fair value. The estimation of fair value requires significant judgments and estimates and actual results could be materially different than the judgments and estimates used. During 2022, there have been significant adverse changes in the market valuation of companies in the travel and technology industries. Discount rates have also been impacted during the period due to rising interest rates and adverse changes in the macroeconomic environment. Future events and changing market conditions, including economic uncertainties such as inflation, rising interest rates and risks of a potential

43

recession, may lead us to re-evaluate the assumptions used to estimate the fair values of our reporting units, which may result in a need to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

During the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of the deterioration of the Company’s business due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company recorded significant goodwill impairment charges (described below) related to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit. For the 2020 annual goodwill impairment test and subsequent annual tests, including as of September 30, 2022, the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying comparable company multiples). The carrying value of goodwill assigned to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit was $973 million as of September 30, 2022. Future events and changing market conditions, including adverse changes in discount rates and market comparables, may require us to revise our assumptions and estimate a lower fair value for the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit at a future date, which may result in a need to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If the discount rate used in the income approach as of September 30, 2022 increases or decreases by 0.5%, the impact to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK, at September 30, 2022, would have ranged from a decrease of approximately $98 million to an increase of approximately $111 million. If the comparable company multiple used in the market approach as of September 30, 2022 increases or decreases by 1x, the impact to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK, at September 30, 2022, would have ranged from an increase of approximately $159 million to a decrease of approximately $159 million.

2020 Interim Goodwill Impairment Test

Due to the significant and negative financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (see Note 2), we performed an interim period goodwill impairment test at March 31, 2020 and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $489 million related to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which is not tax-deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of goodwill for OpenTable and KAYAK of $1.5 billion at March 31, 2020. The goodwill impairment was primarily driven by a significant reduction in the forecasted near-term cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK as well as the significant decline in comparable companies' market values as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying the recent decline in enterprise values of comparable publicly-traded companies to the recently calculated fair value for OpenTable and KAYAK as well as applying comparable company multiples). The income approach estimates fair value utilizing long-term growth rates and discount rates applied to the cash flow projections. In the cash flow projections, we assumed at the time that OpenTable and KAYAK would experience a significant decline in near-term cash flows with a recovery to 2019 levels of financial performance (including profitability) occurring in 2023. The shape and timing of the recovery was a key assumption in our fair value calculation (both in the income and market approaches).

2020 Annual Goodwill Impairment Test

As of September 30, 2020, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $573 million for the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit for the three months ended September 30, 2020, which is not tax-deductible, resulting in an adjusted carrying value of goodwill for OpenTable and KAYAK of $1.0 billion at September 30, 2020. The goodwill impairment was primarily driven by a significant reduction in the forecasted cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK, reflecting a longer assumed recovery period to 2019 levels of profitability, mainly due to the continued material adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including its impact on the flight vertical at KAYAK, and the lowered outlook for monetization opportunities in restaurant reservation services.

The estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK was determined using a combination of standard valuation techniques, including an income approach (discounted cash flows) and a market approach (applying comparable company multiples). The income approach, applied as of September 30, 2020, reflected a reduction in the forecasted cash flows of OpenTable and KAYAK and a longer assumed recovery period to 2019 levels of profitability, driven primarily by a lowered outlook for monetization opportunities in restaurant reservation services and slower than previously expected recovery trends for airline travel, which is a key vertical for KAYAK. For the interim goodwill impairment test at March 31, 2020, we assumed a recovery to 2019 levels of financial performance would occur in 2023 for OpenTable and KAYAK. Based on our evaluation of all relevant information available as of September 30, 2020 for the annual goodwill impairment test, we expected at the time that OpenTable and KAYAK would not return to the 2019 level of profitability within five years from that date, and that it was uncertain whether the shape of the recovery would ultimately match our expectations. An increase or decrease of one percentage point to the profitability growth rates used in the cash flow projections would have resulted in an increase or

44

decrease of approximately $100 million to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK as of September 30, 2020. The discount rate is determined based on the reporting unit’s estimated weighted-average cost of capital and adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in its cash flows, which requires significant judgments. The discount rate used for the annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2020 was higher than the discount rate used for the interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2020. If the discount rate used in the income approach increases or decreases by 0.5%, the impact to the estimated fair value of OpenTable and KAYAK, at September 30, 2020, would have ranged from a decrease of approximately $65 million to an increase of approximately $70 million.

Income Taxes

We determine our tax expense based on our income and statutory tax rates applicable in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Due to the complex nature of tax legislation and frequent changes with such associated legislation, significant judgment is required in computing our tax expense and determining our tax positions. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") enacted in December 2017 made significant changes to U.S. federal tax law, including a one-time deemed repatriation tax imposed on accumulated unremitted international earnings, to be paid over eight years. We do not intend to indefinitely reinvest our international earnings that were subject to U.S. taxation pursuant to the mandatory deemed repatriation or subject to U.S. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI").

We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of temporary differences, and tax planning strategies and record valuation allowances as required.

We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. We have been audited in many jurisdictions and from time to time face challenges regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions that we have taken on our tax returns. Although we believe that our tax filing positions are reasonable and comply with applicable law, we regularly review our tax filing positions, especially in light of tax law or business practice changes, and we may change our positions or determine that previous positions should be amended, either of which could result in additional tax liabilities. The final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.

The evaluation of tax positions and recognition of income tax benefits require significant judgment and we consult with external tax and legal counsel as appropriate. We consider the technical merits of our tax positions along with the applicable tax statutes, related interpretations and precedents, and our expectation of the outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with tax authorities. We recognize liabilities when we believe that uncertain positions may not be fully sustained upon audit by the tax authorities, including any related appeals or litigation processes. Liabilities recognized for uncertain tax positions are based on a two-step approach for recognition and measurement. First, we evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained based on its technical merits. Second, we measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties attributable to uncertain tax positions, if any, are recognized as a component of income tax expense. The tax benefits ultimately realized by us may be different than what is recorded in the financial statements due to future events such as our settling the matter with the tax authorities and our success in sustaining our tax positions.

See Notes 15 and 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Contingencies

Loss contingencies (other than income tax-related contingencies disclosed above) arise from actual or possible claims and assessments and pending or threatened litigation that may be brought against us. Based on our assessment of loss contingencies at each balance sheet date, a loss is recorded in the financial statements if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose information about the contingency in the financial statements. We also disclose information in our financial statements about reasonably possible loss contingencies.

The determination of whether a loss is probable and whether the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated requires significant judgment and evaluation of all the underlying facts and circumstances, including judgments about the potential actions of third-party claimants, regulatory authorities, and courts. Claims, assessments, and litigations involve significant uncertainties such as the complexity of the facts, the legal theories involved, the nature of the claims, the judgment of the courts, the applicable methodology for determining potential damages, and, in the case of class actions, whether a class action can be certified and the extent to which members of a class would or would not file a claim.

45

On a quarterly basis, we update our analysis and estimates considering all available information, including the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, and advice of legal counsel. Changes in our assessment of whether a loss is probable, our estimate of the loss, or our determination of whether the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Changes in our assumptions regarding a particular matter or the effectiveness of our strategies related to legal and other proceedings could also have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. For all loss contingencies, until a matter is finally resolved, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the liability accrued for the matter and such amounts could be material.

See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details, which is incorporated into this Item 7 by reference thereto.

46

Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2022 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021

We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations negatively impacted our year-over-year growth in gross bookings, revenues, and operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations.

Operating and Statistical Metrics

Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking and other business activity generated by our travel and travel-related services. Specifically, reservations of room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets capture the volume of units booked through our online travel companies' ("OTC") brands by our travel reservation services customers. Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked through our OTC brands by our customers, net of cancellations, and is widely used in the travel business. Our non-OTC brands (KAYAK and OpenTable) have different business metrics from those of our OTC brands, so search queries through KAYAK and restaurant reservations through OpenTable do not contribute to our gross bookings.

Room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets reserved through our services for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows:

--------------- ----------------------- ------------------- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Room nights 896 591 51.6 %
Rental car days 62 47 30.7 %
Airline tickets 23 15 49.9 %

Room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets reserved through our services increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021.

Gross bookings resulting from reservations of room nights, rental car days, and airline tickets made through our agency and merchant categories for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding):

----------------------- ----------------------- ------- ------------------- ------ - ------ ----- - ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Agency gross bookings $ 67,379 $ 50,741 32.8 %
Merchant gross bookings 53,873 25,845 108.4 %
Total gross bookings $ 121,253 $ 76,586 58.3 %

Agency gross bookings are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, while merchant gross bookings are derived from services where we facilitate payments. Agency and merchant gross bookings increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand trends. Merchant gross bookings increased more than agency gross bookings due to the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com.

The year-over-year increase in gross bookings in 2022 was due primarily to the increase in room nights and the increase in accommodation ADRs of approximately 15% on a constant-currency basis, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of airline tickets increased 86% year-over-year in 2022 due to higher unit growth and ticket price increases. Gross bookings resulting from reservations of rental car days increased 26% year-over-year in 2022 due primarily to higher unit growth.

47

Revenues

Online travel reservation services

Substantially all of our revenues are generated by providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers and travelers.

Revenues from online travel reservation services are classified into two categories:

•Agency. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions from our accommodation, rental car, and airline reservation services. Substantially all of our agency revenue is from Booking.com's accommodation reservations.

•Merchant. Merchant revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, generally at the time of booking. Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where travelers book accommodation, rental car, airline reservations, and other travel related services. The majority of our merchant revenue is from Booking.com's accommodation reservations. Merchant revenues include:

◦travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers, including the impact of merchandising, less the amount owed to travel service providers) in connection with our merchant reservation services;

◦revenues from facilitating payments, such as credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees; and

◦ancillary fees, including travel-related insurance revenues.

Advertising and other revenues

Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from:

•revenues earned by KAYAK for (a) sending referrals to OTCs and travel service providers and (b) advertising placements on its platforms; and

•revenues earned by OpenTable for (a) restaurant reservation services (fees paid by restaurants for diners seated through OpenTable's online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees for restaurant management services.

------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ ------------------- ----- - ------ ---- - ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Agency revenues $ 9,003 $ 6,663 35.1 %
Merchant revenues 7,193 3,696 94.6 %
Advertising and other revenues 894 599 49.4 %
Total revenues $ 17,090 $ 10,958 56.0 %

Agency, merchant, and advertising and other revenues increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to the continued improvement in gross bookings as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Merchant revenues in 2022 increased more than agency revenues due to the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com.

Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 14.1% in 2022, down from 14.3% in 2021 due to investments in merchandising and an increase in the mix of airline ticket gross bookings, partially offset by increased revenues from facilitating payments.

48

Operating Expenses

Marketing Expenses

------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- ---- - ----- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Marketing expenses $ 5,993 $ 3,801 57.6 %
% of Total gross bookings 4.9 % 5.0 %
% of Total revenues 35.1 % 34.7 %

Marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of:
•search engine keyword purchases;
•referrals from meta-search and travel research websites;
•affiliate programs;
•offline and online brand marketing; and
•other performance-based marketing and incentives.

We adjust our marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives, as well as the travel demand and expected ROIs in our marketing channels. We rely on our marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Our marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021. Marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross bookings decreased slightly in 2022 compared to 2021 due to year-over-year increases in the mix of direct traffic, partially offset by year-over-year decreases in performance marketing ROIs. Performance marketing ROIs were lower in 2022 versus 2021 due to our efforts to invest in marketing during the recovery in the travel industry in 2022.

Sales and Other Expenses

------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- --- - --- ----- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Sales and other expenses $ 1,818 $ 881 106.3 %
% of Total gross bookings 1.5 % 1.2 %
% of Total revenues 10.6 % 8.0 %

Sales and other expenses consist primarily of:
•credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions;
•fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations, and other services;
•chargeback provisions and fraud prevention expenses associated with merchant transactions;
•provisions for expected credit losses, primarily related to accommodation commission receivables and prepayments to certain customers; and
•customer relations costs.

Sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to an increase in merchant transaction costs of $573 million, and an increase in third-party call center costs of $235 million. Merchant transactions increased year-over-year in 2022 due to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021, as well as the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. The year-over-year increase in third-party call center costs in 2022 was due in part to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel, which shifted costs from personnel expenses to sales and other expenses.

49

Personnel

------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- ---- - ----- --- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Personnel $ 2,465 $ 2,314 6.5 %
% of Total revenues 14.4 % 21.1 %

Personnel expenses consist primarily of:
•salaries;
•bonuses;
•stock-based compensation;
•payroll taxes; and
•employee health and other benefits.

Personnel expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, increased 6% in 2022 compared to 2021, due to an increase in salary expense of $139 million and an increase in bonus expense accruals of $66 million, partially offset by the $136 million expense, recorded in 2021, associated with the return of government assistance received through various government aid programs. Employee headcount of approximately 21,600 as of December 31, 2022 increased by 6% as compared to December 31, 2021. Personnel expenses in 2022 and employee headcount as of December 31, 2022 were reduced due to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel which shifted costs from personnel expenses to sales and other expenses. Stock-based compensation expense was $404 million in 2022 compared to $370 million in 2021.

General and Administrative

-------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- --- - --- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
General and administrative $ 934 $ 620 50.9 %
% of Total revenues 5.5 % 5.7 %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:
•indirect taxes such as digital services taxes and travel transaction taxes;
•fees for outside professionals;
•occupancy and office expenses; and
•personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting, and training expenses.

General and administrative expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to an increase of $167 million in indirect taxes driven by higher digital services taxes, as well as the $46 million accrual related to the potential settlement of an Italian indirect tax matter. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The year-over-year increase in general and administrative expenses was also driven by an increase of $75 million in personnel-related expenses and an increase of $53 million in fees for professional services. The year-over-year increase in digital services taxes was driven by the improvement in revenue.

Information Technology

---------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- --- - --- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Information technology $ 526 $ 412 27.6 %
% of Total revenues 3.1 % 3.8 %

Information technology expenses consist primarily of:
•software license and system maintenance fees;
•cloud computing costs and outsourced data center costs;
•payments to contractors; and
•data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services.

50

Information technology expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to increased cloud computing costs, payments to contractors, and software license fees.

Depreciation and Amortization

----------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- --- - --- --- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Depreciation and amortization $ 451 $ 421 6.9 %
% of Total revenues 2.6 % 3.8 %

Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of:
•amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives;
•amortization of internally-developed and purchased software;
•depreciation of computer equipment; and
•depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, and office equipment.

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to increased amortization expense related to the acquisition of Getaroom, partially offset by decreased depreciation of computer equipment and leasehold improvements.

Restructuring, Disposal, and Other Exit Activities

-------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- --- - -- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities $ (199) $ 13 *
% of Total revenues (1.2) % 0.1 %

* Not meaningful

Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities in 2022 includes the gain of $240 million on the sale and leaseback transaction related to Booking.com's future headquarters building (see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by a loss of $41 million related to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel. Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 principally relate to the restructuring charges as a result of restructuring actions taken in 2020 and are primarily related to employee severance and other termination benefits at Booking.com (see Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Interest Expense

---------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- - --- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Interest expense $ 391 $ 334 16.9 %

Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher interest rates relating to our cash management activities (with related income recorded in interest income) and the issuance of senior notes in November 2022. This was offset in part by the impact of the adoption on January 1, 2022 of the new accounting standards update for convertible instruments, the redemption of senior notes with higher interest rates in April 2021, and the maturity in September 2021 of convertible senior notes. The amortization of debt discount on convertible debt was recorded in Interest expense. With the adoption of the new accounting standards update, such amortization is not recorded in the financial statements for periods after January 1, 2022 (see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Other Income (Expense), Net

--------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- - ----- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021

Other income (expense), net $ (788) $ (697) 13.1 %

51

The following table sets forth the composition of "Other income (expense), net" for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021:

------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021
Interest and dividend income $ 219 $ 16
Net losses on equity securities (963) (569)

Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains (43) 111
Loss on early extinguishment of debt — (242)
Other (1) (13)
Other income (expense), net $ (788) $ (697)

See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Interest and dividend income increased for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to the impact of higher interest rates on cash management activities (with related expenses recorded in interest expense) and investment activities.

See Notes 5 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to net losses on equity securities and the impairment of an investment in equity securities.

Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes gains of $46 million related to our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that were not designated as net investment hedges and losses of $52 million on derivative contracts. Foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes gains of $135 million related to our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that were not designated as net investment hedges and losses of $30 million on derivative contracts.

Loss on early extinguishment of debt is related to our Senior Notes due April 2025 and our Senior Notes due April 2027 that were redeemed in April 2021 (see Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Income Taxes

------------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- ---- - --- ----- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Income tax expense $ 865 $ 300 188.6 %
% of Income before income taxes 22.1 % 20.5 %

Our 2022 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to higher international tax rates, a valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets related to certain unrealized losses on equity securities, certain non-deductible expenses, and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax (discussed below). Our 2021 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax, partially offset by higher international tax rates and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits.

Our effective tax rate was higher for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to lower benefit resulting from the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax and higher valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets related to certain unrealized losses on equity securities, partially offset by lower international tax rates.

Under Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 9% ("Innovation Box Tax") for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2021 rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%. Previously, the Innovation Box Tax rate was 7%. Effective January 1, 2022, the Netherlands corporate income tax rate increased from 25% to 25.8%. A portion of Booking.com's earnings during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 qualified for Innovation Box Tax treatment, which had a significant beneficial impact on our effective tax rates for these periods. For more information regarding the Innovation Box Tax, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We may not be able to maintain our 'Innovation Box Tax' benefit."

52

Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2021 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020

For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022.

53

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on facilitating the sale of travel-related services. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of restrictive measures resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services, in 2020 in particular. For more information, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "The COVID-19 pandemic has materially adversely affected, and may further adversely impact, our business and financial performance."

Marketing expenses and personnel expenses are the most significant operating expenses for our business. We rely on marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. See our Consolidated Statements of Operations and "Trends" and "Results of Operations" above for additional information on marketing expenses and personnel expenses including stock-based compensation expenses.

Our continued access to sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including global economic conditions, the condition of global financial markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our ability to meet debt covenant requirements, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or financing sources were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels, our industry or us, our access to capital and the cost of any financing would be negatively impacted. There is no guarantee that additional debt financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on commercially reasonable terms, in which case we may need to seek other sources of funding. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants than those we are currently subject to, which could restrict our business operations. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "Our liquidity, credit ratings, and ongoing access to capital could be materially and negatively affected by global financial conditions and events."

At December 31, 2022, we had $15.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments, of which approximately $9.3 billion is held by our international subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents, and long-term investments held by our international subsidiaries are denominated primarily in Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, and British Pounds Sterling. Cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments are principally comprised of money market fund investments, time deposits and certificates of deposit, government and corporate debt securities, equity securities of Meituan, Grab Holdings Limited ("Grab") and DiDi Global Inc. ("DiDi"), and our investments in private companies. We completed the sale of our investment in equity securities of Meituan in February 2023 and received gross proceeds of $1.7 billion. See Notes 5 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Deferred merchant bookings of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2022 represents cash payments received from travelers in advance of us completing our performance obligations and are comprised principally of amounts estimated to be payable to travel service providers as well as our estimated future revenue for our commission or margin and fees. The amounts are mostly subject to refunds for cancellations.

At December 31, 2022, we had a remaining transition tax liability of $811 million as a result of the Tax Act, which included $711 million reported as "Long-term U.S. transition tax liability" and $100 million included in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This liability will be paid over the next four years. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally, future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes, which have been accrued by us. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was enacted into law in the United States. The key provisions applicable to us include a 15% corporate minimum tax on book income. In addition, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities."

In August 2019, we entered into a $2.0 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders. The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $80 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $100 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans. The proceeds of loans made under the facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayments. At December 31, 2022, there were no borrowings outstanding and $14 million of letters of credit issued under this revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility contains a maximum leverage ratio covenant. After a 2020 amendment to the revolving credit facility, the permitted maximum leverage ratio is increased through and including the three months ending March 31, 2023 and we may not declare or make any cash distribution or repurchase any of our shares (with certain exceptions including in connection with tax withholding related to shares issued to employees) unless we are in compliance on a pro forma basis with the maximum leverage ratio covenant then in effect. Such restriction ends upon delivery of financial statements required for the three months ending June 30, 2023, or we have the ability to terminate this restriction earlier if we demonstrate compliance with the original maximum leverage ratio covenant in the revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2022, we were

54

in compliance with the relevant maximum leverage ratio covenant. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the maximum leverage ratio covenant at any particular time, and our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility depends on compliance with the covenant. Further, the lenders have the right to require repayment of any amounts borrowed under the facility if we are not in compliance with the covenant.

In November 2022, the Company issued senior notes for an aggregate principal amount of 3.5 billion Euros with interest rates ranging from 4.0% to 4.75% and with maturity dates ranging from November 2026 to November 2034. The Company paid $19 million in debt issuance costs during the year ended December 31, 2022 related to the issuance of these senior notes. A portion of the proceeds from the issuance of these senior notes were used to repay the Senior Notes due November 2022 (the "November 2022 Notes"). In addition, we intend to repay the Senior Notes due March 2023 from these proceeds upon maturity. The remaining proceeds from the issuance of these senior notes are available to be used for general corporate purposes.

In November 2022, we repaid $778 million on the maturity of the November 2022 Notes. In March 2022, the Company repaid $1.1 billion on the maturity of Senior Notes due March 2022. In addition, the Company paid the applicable accrued and unpaid interest relating to these senior notes.

At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding senior notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $12.5 billion, with $500 million payable within the next twelve months. The senior notes had a cumulative interest to maturity of $2.4 billion, with $365 million payable within the next twelve months. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our debt arrangements, including principal amounts, interest rates and maturity dates.

During the year ended December 31, 2022, we repurchased shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $6.7 billion. At December 31, 2022, we had a total remaining amount of $3.9 billion authorized by our Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock. In February 2023, our Board authorized a program to repurchase up to an additional $20.0 billion of our common stock. We expect to complete repurchases under the two authorizations within the next four years, assuming we remain in compliance with the applicable maximum leverage ratio covenant under the credit facility amendment. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 has mandated a 1% excise tax on stock repurchases effective from January 1, 2023. See Notes 12 and 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Stock repurchases subsequent to December 31, 2022 were approximately $542 million as of February 22, 2023.

In November 2021, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire global flight booking provider Etraveli Group for approximately 1.6 billion Euros ($1.7 billion). Completion of the acquisition is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.

In December 2022, we entered into a sale and leaseback transaction for Booking.com’s future headquarters building. The building was sold for an aggregate consideration of approximately 566 million Euros ($601 million) and we concurrently entered into an agreement to lease the building from the purchaser for an initial term of 16.5 years, with up to five renewal options of five years each. The annual base rent under the lease is 24 million Euros ($26 million) and will increase annually based on the consumer price index, subject to a specified ceiling. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

At December 31, 2022, we had lease obligations of $867 million. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our obligations related to operating and financing leases. Additionally, at December 31, 2022, we had, in the aggregate, $378 million of non-cancellable purchase obligations individually greater than $10 million payable over the next five years, of which $143 million is payable within the next twelve months. Such purchase obligations relate to agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding, that specify all significant terms, including the quantities to be purchased, price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction.

At December 31, 2022 there were $452 million of standby letters of credit and bank guarantees issued on our behalf. These are obtained primarily for regulatory purposes.

See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our commitments and contingencies.

We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, and other obligations through at least the next twelve months. However, if we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plans,

55

either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to compete or our future growth prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, revenue growth or sustained profitability may not be realized, and future borrowings or equity sales may not be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies, or repay our indebtedness.

Cash Flow Analysis

Year Ended December 31, 2022 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021

Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $6.6 billion, resulting from net income of $3.1 billion, a favorable net impact of $1.7 billion from adjustments for non-cash items and the gain on the sale and leaseback transaction, and a favorable net change in working capital and long-term assets and liabilities of $1.8 billion. Non-cash items were principally associated with net losses on equity securities, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, deferred income tax benefit, provision for expected credit losses and chargebacks, and operating lease amortization. For the year ended December 31, 2022, deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $3.7 billion, and accounts receivable increased by $1.2 billion, primarily due to increases in business volumes.

Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $2.8 billion, resulting from net income of $1.2 billion, a favorable impact of $1.4 billion from adjustments for non-cash items and the loss on early extinguishment of debt, and a favorable net change in working capital and other long-term assets and liabilities of $269 million. Non-cash items were principally associated with net losses on equity securities, deferred income tax benefit, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other stock-based payments, and operating lease amortization. For the year ended December 31, 2021, accounts receivable increased by $1.0 billion and deferred merchant bookings and other current liabilities increased by $1.5 billion, primarily due to increases in business volumes.

Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $518 million, principally resulting from purchases of investments of $768 million, primarily in various corporate and government debt securities (see Note 5), as well as from purchases of property and equipment of $368 million. This was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and leaseback transaction of $601 million and proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments of $32 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1.0 billion, principally resulting from the acquisition of Getaroom of $1.2 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $304 million. This was partially offset by proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments of $508 million, net of purchases of $17 million.

Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $4.9 billion, almost entirely resulting from payments for the repurchase of common stock of $6.6 billion and payments on the maturity of debt of $1.9 billion. This was partially offset by the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $3.6 billion. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1.2 billion, almost entirely resulting from payments on the redemption and conversion of debt of $3.1 billion and payments for the repurchase of common stock of $163 million, partially offset by the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $2.0 billion.

Year Ended December 31, 2021 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020

    For a comparison of our cash flow activities for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022.

Contingencies

For information related to the French and other tax assessments and other tax matters, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors - "We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities."

For information related to the pension matter and our other contingent liabilities, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

56

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[see Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[see Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2032. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $121 million for fiscal 2022 and $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense includes variable lease costs and is net of sublease income, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - -- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 107 $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 59 $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 2, 2022 were 7 years and 2.37%, respectively. As of December 2, 2022, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2023 $ 95 2024 78 2025 74 2026 67 2027 67 Thereafter 167 Total lease liabilities $ 548 Less: Imputed interest 44 Present value of lease liabilities $ 504 _________________________________________ (1) Legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced as of December 2, 2022 were not material. 88  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[see Note 19]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 129 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 21]:
NOTE 21: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company conducts its operations through three reportable operating segments: HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. In accordance with ASC 280 - Segment Reporting, the Company's segments maintain separate financial information for which results of operations are evaluated on a regular basis by the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Inter-company sales between segments are immaterial. *The HVAC segment provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating, cooling and ventilation needs of residential and commercial customers while enhancing building performance, health, energy efficiency and sustainability. *The Refrigeration segment includes transport refrigeration and monitoring products, services and digital solutions for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail, as well as commercial refrigeration products. *The Fire & Security segment provides a wide range of residential, commercial and industrial technologies designed to help protect people and property. 82 Table of Content The Company's customers are in both the public and private sectors and its businesses reflect extensive geographic diversification. Inter-company sales between segments are immaterial. Net sales and Operating profit by segment are as follows: -------------------------- --------- ------ ---------------- ------ ---- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - ----- Net Sales Operating Profit (In millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 HVAC $ 13,408 $ 11,390 $ 9,478 $ 2,610 $ 1,738 $ 2,462 Refrigeration 3,883 4,127 3,333 483 476 357 Fire & Security 3,570 5,515 4,985 1,630 662 584 Total segment 20,861 21,032 17,796 4,723 2,876 3,403 Eliminations and other (440) (419) (340) (80) (96) (184) General corporate expenses -- -- -- (128) (135) (136) Consolidated $ 20,421 $ 20,613 $ 17,456 $ 4,515 $ 2,645 $ 3,083 Total assets are not presented for...

[see Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[see Note 5]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[see Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[see Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

[Notes 12 and 21]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[Notes 15 and 16]:
Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Arrangement in Buffalo, New York We have an operating lease through the Research Foundation for the SUNY Foundation with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to further develop the facility. Under this agreement, we are obligated to, among other things, meet employment targets as well as specified minimum numbers of personnel in the State of New York and in Buffalo, New York and spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York during the 10-year period beginning April 30, 2018. On an annual basis during the initial lease term, as measured on each anniversary of such date, if we fail to meet these specified investment and job creation requirements, then we would be obligated to pay a $41 million "program payment" to the SUNY Foundation for each year that we fail to meet these requirements. Furthermore, if the arrangement is terminated due to a material breach by us, then additional amounts may become payable by us. In 2021, an amendment was executed to extend our overall agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029. On February 1, 2022, we reported to the State of New York that we had met and exceeded our annual requirements for jobs and investment in Buffalo and New York State. As of December 31, 2022, we are currently in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo and do not currently expect any issues meeting our applicable obligations in the years beyond. However, if our expectations as to the costs and timelines of our investment and operations at Buffalo or our production ramp of the Solar Roof prove incorrect, we may incur additional expenses or be required to make s...

[Notes 5 and 6]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[Notes 5 and 6]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). As discussed above, we completed the acquisition of Ahern Rentals in December 2022. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2022 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rentals. Estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 does not include the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental because the acquisition was completed in 2022. If the pre-acquisition revenue of Ahern Rental was included for 2021, estimated North American market share as of December 31, 2021 would have been approximately 16 percent. Global Economic Conditions and COVID-19 Our operations are impacted by global economic conditions, including inflation, increased interest rates and supply chain constraints, and we take actions to modify our plans to address such economic conditions. In 2022, for example, we intentionally held back on sales of rental equipment to ensure we had sufficient capacity for our customers. In 2022, revenue from sales of rental equipment was largely flat year-over-year, however the number of units sold decreased approximately 17 percent year-over-year, as we held on to fleet to serve strong customer demand and to ensure greater fleet availability in the event industry supply chain challenges persist or worsen. While the volume of sales of rental equipment decreased year-over-year, gross margin from sales of rental equipment increased 14.2 percentage points, which primarily reflected strong pricing and improved channel mix. To date, our supply chain disruptions have been limited, but we may experience more severe supply chain disruptions in the future. Interest rates on our debt instruments have increased recently. For example, in November 2022, URNA issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at a 6 percent i...

[Notes 12 and 13]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[see Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[see Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[See Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[see Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[see Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[see Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period operating and financial results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates.

Overview

Our mission is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. We connect consumers who wish to make travel reservations with travel service providers around the world through our online platforms. We offer these services through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, Priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK, and OpenTable. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our operating segments. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to revenue by geographic area.

We derive substantially all of our revenues from enabling consumers to make travel service reservations. We also earn revenues from advertising services, restaurant reservations and restaurant management services, and various other services, such as travel-related insurance revenues.

Trends

The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of travel restrictions by governments around the world resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services. Accommodation room nights, which include the impact of cancellations, declined rapidly as the COVID-19 pandemic spread in 2020. Since the beginning of the second quarter of 2020 and through 2022, changes in accommodation room nights versus the comparable period in 2019 have generally improved as government-imposed travel restrictions have eased, vaccines and other medical interventions have become more widespread, and consumer demand for travel has generally rebounded. In 2021, room nights were 66% higher than in 2020 but still 30% lower than in 2019. On a regional basis, considering where the traveler is booking from, North America was the only region in 2021 to have room nights increase versus 2019. In 2022, global room nights were 52% higher than in 2021 and 6% higher than in 2019. The year-over-year growth in room nights in 2022 was driven primarily by the continued recovery in Europe, Asia, and Rest of World, as well as by continued growth in North America.

37

The comparison of room nights in 2021 and 2022 to the comparable period in 2019 avoids the distortion created from comparing to a prior year period that was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Quarterly Room Nights and Change versus 2019

In early March 2022, following Russia']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[" expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, have negatively impacted our

40

results of operations. While the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has been working on multinational tax changes that could require all member parties to remove all digital services taxes, the timing for completion of that project has been delayed and many details remain uncertain. If that project is significantly delayed or not completed more countries could implement digital services taxes, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" under the DSA. For more information on the impacts of regulations on our business, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 2, 2022, primarily relating to contracts with vendors for third-party hosting and data center services: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2023 $ 1,632 2024 921 2025 775 2026 753 2027 783 Thereafter 1,226 Total $ 6,090 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $228 million, $202 million and $176 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments w...

["

Our businesses outside of the U.S. (see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements) represent a substantial majority of our financial results, but because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our businesses outside of the U.S. are translated from local currency (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. For example, the U.S. Dollar strengthened in 2022 versus both the Euro and British Pound Sterling by 11% and 10%, respectively, as compared to 2021. As a
result of the movements in foreign currency exchange rates, both the absolute amounts of and percentage changes in our    foreign-currency-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars are affected. Our total revenues increased by 56% in 2022 as compared to 2021, but without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates our total revenue increased year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 71%. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. We designate certain portions of the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in certain Euro functional currency subsidiaries. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes are recognized in "]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 2, 2022 and December 3, 2021 were as follows: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2022 2021 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt (500) -- Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (21) (27) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 3,629 $ 4,123 Carrying value of current debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs $ 500 $ -- 86  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022...

[" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Notes 12 and 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Such foreign currency transaction gains or losses are dependent on the amount of net assets of the Euro functional currency subsidiaries, the amount of the Euro-denominated debt that is designated as a hedge, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "]:
Note 12 - Leases 81

["

We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our derivative contracts.

Other Factors

Over the long term, we intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology, and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results, even if those expenditures create pressure on operating margins. In recent years, we have experienced pressure on operating margins as we invested in initiatives to drive future growth. We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, including exploring strategic alternatives such as acquisitions.

The competition for technology talent in our industry is intense, including among established technology companies, startups, and companies transitioning to digital, and this level of competition could continue in the future. As a result of the competitive labor market and inflationary pressure on compensation, our personnel expenses to attract and retain key talent are increasing, which may adversely affect our results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. The 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity u...

['s future headquarters building (see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by a loss of $41 million related to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel. Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 principally relate to the restructuring charges as a result of restructuring actions taken in 2020 and are primarily related to employee severance and other termination benefits at Booking.com (see Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Interest Expense

---------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- - --- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Interest expense $ 391 $ 334 16.9 %

Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher interest rates relating to our cash management activities (with related income recorded in interest income) and the issuance of senior notes in November 2022. This was offset in part by the impact of the adoption on January 1, 2022 of the new accounting standards update for convertible instruments, the redemption of senior notes with higher interest rates in April 2021, and the maturity in September 2021 of convertible senior notes. The amortization of debt discount on convertible debt was recorded in Interest expense. With the adoption of the new accounting standards update, such amortization is not recorded in the financial statements for periods after January 1, 2022 (see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Other Income (Expense), Net

--------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- - ----- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021

Other income (expense), net $ (788) $ (697) 13.1 %

51

The following table sets forth the composition of "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[" for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021:

------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
(in millions) 2022 2021
Interest and dividend income $ 219 $ 16
Net losses on equity securities (963) (569)

Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains (43) 111
Loss on early extinguishment of debt — (242)
Other (1) (13)
Other income (expense), net $ (788) $ (697)

See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Interest and dividend income increased for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to the impact of higher interest rates on cash management activities (with related expenses recorded in interest expense) and investment activities.

See Notes 5 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to net losses on equity securities and the impairment of an investment in equity securities.

Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes gains of $46 million related to our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that were not designated as net investment hedges and losses of $52 million on derivative contracts. Foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes gains of $135 million related to our Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that were not designated as net investment hedges and losses of $30 million on derivative contracts.

Loss on early extinguishment of debt is related to our Senior Notes due April 2025 and our Senior Notes due April 2027 that were redeemed in April 2021 (see Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements).

Income Taxes

------------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- ---- - --- ----- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Income tax expense $ 865 $ 300 188.6 %
% of Income before income taxes 22.1 % 20.5 %

Our 2022 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to higher international tax rates, a valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets related to certain unrealized losses on equity securities, certain non-deductible expenses, and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax (discussed below). Our 2021 effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to the benefit of the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax, partially offset by higher international tax rates and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits.

Our effective tax rate was higher for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to lower benefit resulting from the Netherlands Innovation Box Tax and higher valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets related to certain unrealized losses on equity securities, partially offset by lower international tax rates.

Under Dutch corporate income tax law, income generated from qualifying innovative activities is taxed at a rate of 9% ("]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022.

53

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our financial results and prospects are almost entirely dependent on facilitating the sale of travel-related services. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting implementation of restrictive measures resulted in a significant decline in travel activities and consumer demand for related services, in 2020 in particular. For more information, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Domestic $ 1,958 $ 1,736 $ 1,090 Foreign 4,050 3,969 3,086 Income before income taxes $ 6,008 $ 5,705 $ 4,176 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ------- - ------- (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Current: United States federal $ 465 $ 391 $ 119 Foreign 329 197 222 State and local 132 103 79 Total current 926 691 420 Deferred: United States federal (45) (148) (123) Foreign 360 359 (1,313) State and local 11 (19) (68) Total deferred 326 192 (1,504) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 1,252 $ 883 $ (1,084) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the income tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of the following: ---------------------------------------...

[" above for additional information on marketing expenses and personnel expenses including stock-based compensation expenses.

Our continued access to sources of liquidity depends on multiple factors, including global economic conditions, the condition of global financial markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our ability to meet debt covenant requirements, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or financing sources were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels, our industry or us, our access to capital and the cost of any financing would be negatively impacted. There is no guarantee that additional debt financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on commercially reasonable terms, in which case we may need to seek other sources of funding. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants than those we are currently subject to, which could restrict our business operations. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

[" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This liability will be paid over the next four years. In accordance with the Tax Act, generally, future repatriation of our international cash will not be subject to a U.S. federal income tax liability as a dividend, but will be subject to U.S. state income taxes and international withholding taxes, which have been accrued by us. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was enacted into law in the United States. The key provisions applicable to us include a 15% corporate minimum tax on book income. In addition, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 20

["). Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. We use our judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of `certain estimates and we evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. Estimates are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Matters that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following:

Valuation of Investments in Private Companies

See Notes 2, 5, and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the investments in private companies and information on fair value measurements, including the three levels of inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value. When inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly (observable market data), are available at the measurement date and are not significantly adjusted using unobservable inputs, the observable inputs would be classified as Level 2 inputs. When little or no market data is available, the fair value of these investments are measured using unobservable inputs ("]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cl...

['s online reservation service) and (b) subscription fees for restaurant management services.

------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ ------------------- ----- - ------ ---- - ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Agency revenues $ 9,003 $ 6,663 35.1 %
Merchant revenues 7,193 3,696 94.6 %
Advertising and other revenues 894 599 49.4 %
Total revenues $ 17,090 $ 10,958 56.0 %

Agency, merchant, and advertising and other revenues increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to the continued improvement in gross bookings as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Merchant revenues in 2022 increased more than agency revenues due to the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com.

Total revenues as a percentage of gross bookings was 14.1% in 2022, down from 14.3% in 2021 due to investments in merchandising and an increase in the mix of airline ticket gross bookings, partially offset by increased revenues from facilitating payments.

48

Operating Expenses

Marketing Expenses

------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- ---- - ----- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Marketing expenses $ 5,993 $ 3,801 57.6 %
% of Total gross bookings 4.9 % 5.0 %
% of Total revenues 35.1 % 34.7 %

Marketing expenses consist primarily of the costs of:
•search engine keyword purchases;
•referrals from meta-search and travel research websites;
•affiliate programs;
•offline and online brand marketing; and
•other performance-based marketing and incentives.

We adjust our marketing spend based on our growth and profitability objectives, as well as the travel demand and expected ROIs in our marketing channels. We rely on our marketing channels to generate a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Our marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to the continued improvement in travel demand as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021. Marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross bookings decreased slightly in 2022 compared to 2021 due to year-over-year increases in the mix of direct traffic, partially offset by year-over-year decreases in performance marketing ROIs. Performance marketing ROIs were lower in 2022 versus 2021 due to our efforts to invest in marketing during the recovery in the travel industry in 2022.

Sales and Other Expenses

------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- --- - --- ----- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Sales and other expenses $ 1,818 $ 881 106.3 %
% of Total gross bookings 1.5 % 1.2 %
% of Total revenues 10.6 % 8.0 %

Sales and other expenses consist primarily of:
•credit card and other payment processing fees associated with merchant transactions;
•fees paid to third parties that provide call center, website content translations, and other services;
•chargeback provisions and fraud prevention expenses associated with merchant transactions;
•provisions for expected credit losses, primarily related to accommodation commission receivables and prepayments to certain customers; and
•customer relations costs.

Sales and other expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased significantly in 2022 compared to 2021, due primarily to an increase in merchant transaction costs of $573 million, and an increase in third-party call center costs of $235 million. Merchant transactions increased year-over-year in 2022 due to the continued improvement in travel demand trends as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022 versus 2021, as well as the expansion of merchant accommodation reservation services at Booking.com. The year-over-year increase in third-party call center costs in 2022 was due in part to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel, which shifted costs from personnel expenses to sales and other expenses.

49

Personnel

------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- ---- - ----- --- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Personnel $ 2,465 $ 2,314 6.5 %
% of Total revenues 14.4 % 21.1 %

Personnel expenses consist primarily of:
•salaries;
•bonuses;
•stock-based compensation;
•payroll taxes; and
•employee health and other benefits.

Personnel expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, increased 6% in 2022 compared to 2021, due to an increase in salary expense of $139 million and an increase in bonus expense accruals of $66 million, partially offset by the $136 million expense, recorded in 2021, associated with the return of government assistance received through various government aid programs. Employee headcount of approximately 21,600 as of December 31, 2022 increased by 6% as compared to December 31, 2021. Personnel expenses in 2022 and employee headcount as of December 31, 2022 were reduced due to the transfer of certain customer service operations of Booking.com to Majorel which shifted costs from personnel expenses to sales and other expenses. Stock-based compensation expense was $404 million in 2022 compared to $370 million in 2021.

General and Administrative

-------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- --- - --- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
General and administrative $ 934 $ 620 50.9 %
% of Total revenues 5.5 % 5.7 %

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:
•indirect taxes such as digital services taxes and travel transaction taxes;
•fees for outside professionals;
•occupancy and office expenses; and
•personnel-related expenses such as travel, relocation, recruiting, and training expenses.

General and administrative expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to an increase of $167 million in indirect taxes driven by higher digital services taxes, as well as the $46 million accrual related to the potential settlement of an Italian indirect tax matter. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The year-over-year increase in general and administrative expenses was also driven by an increase of $75 million in personnel-related expenses and an increase of $53 million in fees for professional services. The year-over-year increase in digital services taxes was driven by the improvement in revenue.

Information Technology

---------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- --- - --- ---- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Information technology $ 526 $ 412 27.6 %
% of Total revenues 3.1 % 3.8 %

Information technology expenses consist primarily of:
•software license and system maintenance fees;
•cloud computing costs and outsourced data center costs;
•payments to contractors; and
•data communications and other expenses associated with operating our services.

50

Information technology expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to increased cloud computing costs, payments to contractors, and software license fees.

Depreciation and Amortization

----------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------- --- - --- --- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Depreciation and amortization $ 451 $ 421 6.9 %
% of Total revenues 2.6 % 3.8 %

Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of:
•amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives;
•amortization of internally-developed and purchased software;
•depreciation of computer equipment; and
•depreciation of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, and office equipment.

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to increased amortization expense related to the acquisition of Getaroom, partially offset by decreased depreciation of computer equipment and leasehold improvements.

Restructuring, Disposal, and Other Exit Activities

-------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------------- --- - -- -
 Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
(in millions) 2022 2021
Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities $ (199) $ 13 *
% of Total revenues (1.2) % 0.1 %

* Not meaningful

Restructuring, disposal, and other exit activities in 2022 includes the gain of $240 million on the sale and leaseback transaction related to Booking.com']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

["

52

Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2021 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020

For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, see Item 7. Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17
