================================================================================
CIK: 0000012208
Company Name: BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC
Filing Date: 2020-03-02
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 15:04:56
================================================================================

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion should be read in conjunction with the information contained in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes which are an integral part of the statements.

Overview.  We are a multinational manufacturer and worldwide distributor of our own life science research and clinical diagnostics products.  Our business is organized into two primary segments, Life Science and Clinical Diagnostics, with the mission to provide scientists with specialized tools needed for biological research and clinical diagnostics.

We sell more than 9,000 products and services to a diverse client base comprised of scientific research, healthcare, education and government customers worldwide. We do not disclose quantitative information about our different products and services as it is impractical to do so based primarily on the numerous products and services that we sell and the global markets that we serve.

We manufacture and supply our customers with a range of reagents, apparatus and equipment to separate complex chemical and biological materials and to identify, analyze and purify components.  Because our customers require standardization for their experiments and test results, much of our revenues are recurring.

26

We are impacted by the support of many governments for both research and healthcare. The current global economic outlook is still uncertain as the need to control government social spending by many governments limits opportunities for growth. Adding to this uncertainty was the referendum in the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union. Approximately 39% of our 2019 consolidated net sales are derived from the United States and approximately 61% are derived from international locations, with Europe being our largest international region. The international sales are largely denominated in local currencies such as the Euro, Swiss Franc, Japanese Yen, Chinese Yuan and British Sterling. As a result, our consolidated net sales expressed in dollars benefit when the U.S. dollar weakens and suffer when the dollar strengthens.  When the U.S. dollar strengthens, we benefit from lower cost of sales from our own international manufacturing sites as well as non-U.S. suppliers, and from lower international operating expenses. We regularly discuss our changes in revenue and expense categories in terms of both changing foreign exchange rates and in terms of a currency neutral basis, if notable, to explain the impact currency has on our results.

Cyberattack

As we previously disclosed on December 9, 2019 on a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we detected a cyberattack on our network on the evening of December 5, 2019 PST and immediately took affected systems offline as part of our comprehensive response to contain the activity (“December 2019 Cyberattack”). The virus was targeted at Windows-based systems and did not attack our global ERP system (SAP) and other non-Windows-based systems.  Critical systems were back online within a few days of the incident. As part of our in-depth investigation into this incident, we engaged outside cyber security experts to assist us with investigation and remediation efforts.  To date, we have found no evidence of unauthorized transfer or misuse of personal data, and there is no indication at this point that customer systems were affected. We anticipate some ongoing expenses relating to this incident will continue into the first half of 2020.

We have insurance coverage for costs resulting from cyberattacks. At this time, we expect that our losses from this incident will exceed our insurance coverage.  We have not recorded any estimated proceeds resulting from an insurance claim regarding this incident since covered expenses as a result of this incident are still not yet quantified and, in any case, disputes over the extent of insurance coverage for claims are not uncommon. We did not pay a ransom in connection with this incident.

Acquisitions

In October 2019, we acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of a foreign distributor for approximately $4.2 million, which included cash payments at closing, net of closing cash, of $3.6 million, and $0.6 million in contingent consideration potentially payable to the sellers. In addition, we recorded a net gain of $0.4 million for the settlement of preexisting conditions concurrent with the acquisition that was recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense. The acquisition was included in our Clinical Diagnostics segment's results of operations from the acquisition date and was accounted for as a business combination. As of December 31, 2019, the preliminary allocation of the payments was $3.4 million to customer relationships, a definite-lived intangible, $0.2 million to deferred tax asset, $0.8 million to deferred tax liability related to the purchased intangible and $1.4 million to acquired net assets.

In August 2019, we acquired all the issued and outstanding membership interests of Exact Diagnostics, LLC for approximately $60.0 million. Cash payments at closing, net of closing cash, were $59.7 million. The acquisition was included in our Clinical Diagnostics segment's results of operations from the acquisition date and was accounted for as a business combination. The final allocation of the payments was $26.8 million to purchased intangibles consisting primarily of customer relationships, developed product technology and tradenames, $4.2 million to acquired net assets, and $28.7 million to goodwill. We believe that the acquisition will accelerate market penetration in the areas of quality controls and assay verification panels in our Clinical Diagnostics operations.

27

In March 2019, we completed the acquisition of all the issued and outstanding stock of a small U.S. private company for approximately $20.0 million. Cash payments, net of closing cash, consisted of $4.0 million paid in November 2018 and the remaining $16.0 million paid in March 2019. The acquisition was included in our Life Science segment's results of operations from the acquisition date and was accounted for as a business combination. The final allocation of the payments was $15.6 million to goodwill that included workforce and time-to-market advantage, $5.5 million to definite-lived intangibles, $0.2 million to in-process research and development, an indefinite-lived intangible asset, and a deferred tax liability of $1.3 million related to the purchased intangibles. We believe that the acquisition will expand our reagents suite of offerings in our Life Science operations.

The above acquisitions are immaterial to Bio-Rad taken as a whole for the periods presented.

Restructuring Costs for European and North American Reorganization

In November 2019, we announced our strategy-driven restructuring plan. We expect that a significant portion of the net savings resulting from this restructuring plan will be repurposed in alignment with our portfolio strategy. The restructuring plan includes a workforce reduction in Europe, United States and Canada, and is expected to be incurred through 2020. We recorded $25.3 million of expense in restructuring charges related to severance and employee benefits for the year ended December 31, 2019. The liability of $25.3 million as of December 31, 2019 was recorded in Accrued payroll and employee benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The amounts recorded were reflected in Cost of goods sold of $4.8 million, in Selling, general and administrative expense of $14.4 million and in Research and development expense of $6.1 million in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2019.

Restructuring Costs for Termination of a Diagnostics Research and Development Project and Facility Closures

In December 2018, we announced the closure of a small manufacturing facility outside Paris, France. We recorded restructuring charges and adjustments related to severance and employee benefits of $(0.1) million and $3.9 million and exit costs of zero and $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. From December 2018 to December 31, 2019, total expenses were $4.0 million.

In June 2018, we announced the closure of a small manufacturing operation in Munich, Germany. We recorded restructuring charges and adjustments related to severance and employee benefits of $(0.3) million and $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. From June 2018 to December 31, 2019, total expenses were $1.4 million. This restructuring plan was completed in November 2019.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The accompanying discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.  We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis.  We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, future events may cause us to change our assumptions and estimates, which may require adjustment. Actual results could differ from these estimates. We have determined that for the periods reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K the following accounting policies and estimates are critical in understanding our financial condition and results of operations.

28

Accounting for Income Taxes.  Management is required to make estimates related to our income tax provision in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.  This process involves estimating our current tax exposures, as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets in each jurisdiction. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax effects of net operating losses, tax credits, and temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Management assesses the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent management believes that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance must be established.  To the extent management establishes a valuation allowance or increases this allowance in a period, an increase to expense within the Provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income may result.

As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded a valuation allowance of $67.2 million and $70.8 million, respectively, due to uncertainties related to our ability to utilize deferred tax assets in some jurisdictions. The valuation allowance is based on management’s current estimates of taxable income for the jurisdictions in which we operate and the period over which the deferred tax assets will be recoverable.  In the event that actual results differ from these estimates, or these estimates are adjusted in future periods, an additional valuation allowance may need to be established, which would increase the tax provision, lowering income and impacting our financial position. Should realization of these deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been provided occur, the provision for income taxes may decrease, raising income and positively impacting Bio-Rad’s financial position.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements on a particular tax position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement.  The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted as appropriate for changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing tax law, new regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination.  We recognize both accrued interest and penalties, where appropriate, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Our overall effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations because of changes in the geographic mix of earnings, changes to statutory tax rates and tax laws, and because of the impact of various tax audits and assessments, as well as generation of tax credits.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation (the “Tax Act”). The Tax Act made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including the imposition of a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax (“Transition Tax”) on certain earnings accumulated offshore since 1986 and the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for U.S. taxable income, resulting in a one-time remeasurement of U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities. In 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $70 million related to the Transition Tax and remeasurement of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities. We completed our accounting for the Tax Act under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“SAB 118”) in 2018, which resulted in an additional income tax benefit of $49 million.

Valuation of Business Acquisitions, Goodwill and Long-lived Assets.  Upon the consummation of a business combination, we use multiple analyses to determine the fair market value of the consideration of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Once the fair market value of the acquired business is determined, any residual value between fair market value and the consideration is defined as goodwill.

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses, which could include contingent consideration. Contingent consideration is an obligation of the acquirer to transfer additional assets or equity interest to the former owners of an acquiree as part of the exchange for control of the acquiree if specified future events occur or conditions are met. Contingent consideration is reported at fair value each reporting period until the contingency is resolved. Any changes in fair value are recognized in earnings, which could become volatile over time depending on the facts and circumstances.

29

Goodwill amounts are assigned to reporting units at the time of acquisition and are adjusted for any subsequent significant transfers of business between reporting units. We assess the impairment of goodwill annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We perform the impairment tests of goodwill at our reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments. A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.

We use a projected discounted cash flow model to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. This discounted cash flow method for determining goodwill may be different from the fair value that would result from an actual transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller. Projections such as discounted cash flow models are inherently uncertain and accordingly, actual future cash flows may differ materially from projected cash flows. Management judgment is required in developing the assumptions for the discounted cash flow model. These assumptions include revenue growth rates, profit margins and discount rates. In addition, for some diagnostic units where they supply reagent rental equipment, capital expenditures can have a significant impact. We estimate future cash flows using current and longer-term financial forecasts. These forecasts take into account the current economic environment. The discount rates used are compiled using independent sources, current trends in similar businesses and other observable market data. Changes to these rates might result in material changes in the valuation and determination of the recoverability of goodwill. For example, an increase in the discount rate used to discount cash flows will decrease the computed fair value.

Impairment tests are highly sensitive to changes in assumptions and minor changes to assumptions could result in impairment losses. Our forecasts utilized in our 2019 impairment test assumed, among other things, sales growth from executing our sales and marketing programs, new product introductions, successful product development and timely registration of our products when required, while controlling costs to manufacture and service our equipment at the customer site. In addition, external factors, such as competitive pricing in the market, currency, inflation rates, cost of capital, and forecasted tax rates could affect the determination of fair value of our reporting units. Our impairment tests resulted in excessive fair value over book value ranging from 75% to more than 400% for our various reporting units. If the initiatives mentioned above do not achieve the desired results, or external factors change detrimentally, future impairment losses may occur.

To validate the reasonableness of the reporting unit fair values, we reconcile the aggregate fair values of the reporting units to the enterprise market capitalization. In performing the reconciliation we may, depending on the volatility of the market value of our stock price, use either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date.

For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, a long-lived asset or assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets (including identifiable intangibles) whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In addition to the required quantitative review, we also review quarterly qualitative factors that we consider important, which could trigger an impairment review and include:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• significant reporting unit under-performance relative to expected, historical or projected future operating results;

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• significant changes in the manner of use of the long-lived assets, intangible assets or the strategy for our overall business;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life; and

- --------------------------------------------------------------------
• significant negative industry, legal, regulatory or economic trends.

30

When management determines that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, we test for any impairment based on a projected undiscounted cash flow method. Projected future operating results and cash flows of the asset or asset group are used to establish the fair value used in evaluating the carrying value of long-lived and intangible assets. We estimate the future cash flows of the long-lived assets using current and long-term financial forecasts. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If this is the case, an impairment loss would be recognized. The impairment loss recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value.

In conjunction with our annual valuation of goodwill, there were no impairment losses in 2019. In 2018, we impaired goodwill associated with our 1999 acquisition of Pasteur Sanofi Diagnostics S.A., 2007 through 2012 acquisitions of DiaMed Holding AG, DiaMed Fennica Oy, DiaMed (G.B.) Limited, and DiaMed Benelux (collectively DiaMed), 2010 acquisition of Biotest AG, and 2013 acquisition of AbD Serotec in the amounts of $18.1 million, $247.2 million, $10.8 million and $5.9 million, respectively. Goodwill for DiaMed, Biotest AG and AbD Serotec was fully impaired at December 31, 2018. In 2018, we impaired developed product technology and fully impaired covenants not to compete in the amounts of $8.8 million and $1.7 million, respectively, associated with our 2012 acquisition of a cell sorting system from Propel Labs, Inc.

In 2017, we impaired goodwill associated with our 1999 acquisition of Pasteur Sanofi Diagnostics S.A. and with our 2013 acquisition of AbD Serotec in the amounts of $2.8 million and $8.7 million, respectively.

All the impairments above were based upon a revision of our Level 3 valuation inputs, i.e., expected future cash flows.

Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue from operations through the sale of products, services, and rental of instruments. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally accounted for as distinct performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of any taxes collected from customers (sales tax, value added tax, etc.), which are subsequently remitted to government authorities.

Our contracts from customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment, and may or may not impact the timing of revenue recognition. Revenue associated with equipment that requires factory installation is not recorded until installation is complete and customer acceptance, if required, has occurred. Certain equipment requires installation due to the fact that the instruments are being operated in a clinical/laboratory environment, and the installation services could result in modification of the equipment in order to ensure that the instruments are working according to specifications of the customer which are subject to validation tests upon completion of the installation. In these arrangements, which require factory installation, the delivery of the equipment and the installation are separate performance obligations. We will recognize the transaction price allocated to the equipment only upon customer acceptance, as the transfer of control has occurred in relation to the equipment at that point in time as the customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from the asset. The transaction price allocated to the installation services is also recognized upon completion of the services because without the completion of the installation services and related customer acceptance the customer cannot receive any of the benefits of the service.

At the time revenue is recognized, a provision is recognized for estimated product returns as this right is considered variable consideration. Accordingly, when product revenues are recognized, the transaction price is reduced by the estimated amount of product returns.

31

Service revenues on extended warranty contracts are recognized ratably over the life of the service agreement as a stand-ready performance obligation. For arrangements that include a combination of products and services, transaction prices are allocated to performance obligations based on stand-alone selling prices. The method used to determine the stand-alone selling prices for service revenues is based on the observable prices when the services have been sold separately.

Reagent rental agreements are a diagnostic industry sales method that provides use of an instrument and consumables (reagents) to a customer on a per test basis. These agreements may also include maintenance of the underlying instruments retained at customer locations as well as initial training. We initially determine if a reagent rental arrangement contains a lease at lease commencement. Where we have determined that such an arrangement contains a lease, we next must ascertain its lease classification for purposes of applying appropriate accounting treatment as an operating, sales-type or direct financing lease. In addition, for purposes of determining the lease term used in performing the lease classification test, we include the noncancellable period of the lease together with those periods covered by the option to extend the lease if the customer is reasonably certain to exercise that option, the periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the customer is reasonably certain not to exercise that option, and the periods covered by the option to extend (or not to terminate) the lease in which exercise of the option is controlled by the company. While most of our reagent rental arrangements contain either the option for a lessee to extend and/or cancel, the period in which the contract is enforceable is a very short period and therefore the lease term has been limited to the noncancellable period. Furthermore, it has historically been very rare for these arrangements to contain an option for the lessee to purchase the underlying asset.

Valuation of Inventories.   We value inventory at the lower of the actual cost to purchase and/or manufacture the inventory, or the current estimated net realizable value of the inventory.  We review inventory quantities on hand and reduce the cost basis of excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on an estimated forecast of product demand, production requirements and the quality, efficacy and potency of raw materials.  This review is done on a quarterly basis or, if warranted by the circumstances, more frequently.  In addition, our industry is characterized by technological change, frequent new product development and product obsolescence that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand.  Our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, and if too high, we may have overstated the carrying value of our inventory. In the future, if inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to write down the value of inventory to market and recognize such costs in our cost of goods sold at the time of such determination.  Therefore, although we make efforts to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand and perform procedures to safeguard overall inventory quality, any significant unanticipated changes in demand, technological developments, regulations, storage conditions, or other economic or environmental factors affecting biological materials, could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and reported results of operations.

32

Results of Operations - Sales, Gross Margins and Expenses - Incorporating by Reference the Results of Operations - Sales, Gross Margins and Expenses from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018

The following shows cost of goods sold, gross profit, expense items and net income as a percentage of net sales:

--------------------------------------------------- ----- - ---- ----- -

 2019 2018
Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 %
Cost of goods sold 45.6 46.6
Gross profit 54.4 53.4
Selling, general and administrative expense 35.7 36.5
Research and development expense 8.8 8.7
Impairment losses on goodwill and long-lived assets — 12.8
Net income 76.1 16.0

Net sales

Net sales (sales) in 2019 were $2.31 billion, an increase of 1.0% compared to $2.29 billion in 2018. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, 2019 sales increased by approximately 3.3% compared to 2018. Currency neutral sales increased in all regions.

The Life Science segment sales in 2019 were $885.9 million, an increase of 2.8% compared to 2018.  On a currency neutral basis, sales increased 4.6% compared to 2018. The currency neutral sales increase was primarily driven by growth in our Droplet Digital™ PCR, Food Safety and Process Media product lines. Currency neutral sales increases occurred mostly in the Americas and Europe. Sales in Asia were most impacted by the December 2019 Cyberattack .

The Clinical Diagnostics segment sales in 2019 were $1.41 billion, relatively flat compared to 2018. On a currency neutral basis, sales increased 2.8% compared to 2018. The currency neutral sales in 2018 benefited from a one-time $6.0 million receipt for the resolution of a dispute involving a licensed patent. Excluding the one-time receipt last year, we saw currency neutral sales growth across all three regions, primarily in the Americas and Asia. Product lines that contributed to the growth included Quality Controls, Blood Typing, Immunology and Diabetes. Management expects sales growth in Europe to continue to be challenging due to government initiatives to contain healthcare spending, along with increased competition.

Gross margin

Consolidated gross margins were 54.4% in 2019 compared to 53.4% in 2018. Life Science segment gross margins in 2019 increased when compared to 2018 by approximately 2.7 percentage points primarily due to $7.4 million and $1.5 million of cost of sales benefits in 2019 from escrow releases related to 2011 and 2017 acquisitions within the Life Science group, respectively, and product mix, as well as a decrease in service costs. Clinical Diagnostics segment gross margins in 2019 were flat compared to 2018. Unfavorable manufacturing costs included restructuring costs, lower absorption, and higher service costs primarily associated with a larger installed base. These costs were primarily offset by lower excess and obsolete inventory related costs, logistics costs, and royalty expenses. The gross margin in 2018 benefited from a one-time receipt of $6.0 million for the resolution of a dispute involving a licensed patent, partially offset by a restructuring charge related to a manufacturing facility closure.

33

Selling, general and administrative expense

Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) decreased to $824.6 million or 35.7% of sales in 2019 compared to $834.8 million or 36.5% of sales in 2018, an overall decrease of $10.2 million.  Decreases to SG&A primarily were related to lower professional fees of $27.7 million, lower bad debt of $14.6 million and lower travel of $8.6 million. Decreases in SG&A were partially offset primarily by increases in employee related expenses of $40.8 million, which included higher expenses associated with the restructuring plans in 2019 compared to those in 2018.

Research and development expense

Research and development expense increased to $202.7 million or 8.8% of sales in 2019 compared to $199.2 million or 8.7% of sales in 2018.  Life Science segment research and development expense increased in 2019 from 2018, primarily driven by additional spending for personnel, outside consultants and supplies that were related to new product innovation within the Droplet Digital PCR product line. Clinical Diagnostics segment research and development expense decreased in 2019 from 2018 primarily from lower spending due to the timing of projects that led to lower outside professional services expense and lower supplies expense, partially offset by the restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of 2019.

Impairment losses on goodwill and long-lived assets

In conjunction with our annual valuation of goodwill, there were no impairment losses in 2019. In 2018, we impaired goodwill associated with our 1999 acquisition of Pasteur Sanofi Diagnostics S.A., 2007 through 2012 acquisitions of DiaMed Holding AG, DiaMed Fennica Oy, DiaMed (G.B.) Limited, and DiaMed Benelux (collectively DiaMed), 2010 acquisition of Biotest AG, and 2013 acquisition of AbD Serotec in the amounts of $18.1 million, $247.2 million, $10.8 million and $5.9 million, respectively. Goodwill for DiaMed, Biotest AG and AbD Serotec was fully impaired at December 31, 2018. Impairments for the Pasteur Sanofi Diagnostics S.A., DiaMed and Biotest AG were included in our Clinical Diagnostics segment's results of operations, and the impairment for AbD Serotec was included in our Life Science segment's results of operations.

In 2018, we impaired developed product technology and fully impaired covenants not to compete in the amounts of $8.8 million and $1.7 million, respectively, associated with our 2012 acquisition of a cell sorting system from Propel Labs, Inc. These impairments were included in our Life Science segment's results of operations.

Results of Operations – Non-operating

Interest expense

Interest expense in 2019 was $23.4 million, a slight decrease compared to 2018 of $24.0 million.

Foreign currency exchange gains and losses

Foreign currency exchange gains and losses consist primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses on intercompany net receivables and payables and the change in fair value of our forward foreign exchange contracts used to manage our foreign currency exchange risk.  Net foreign currency exchange losses for 2019 and 2018 were $2.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively.  The 2019 and 2018 net foreign currency exchange losses were attributable to market volatility, the result of the estimating process inherent in the timing of shipments and payments of intercompany debt, and the cost of hedging. All years are affected by the economic hedging program we employ to hedge our intercompany receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.

34

Change in fair market value of equity securities

Change in fair market value of equity securities were gains of $2,031.0 million for 2019 compared to $606.2 million for 2018, primarily resulting from the recognition of holding gains on our investment in Sartorius AG.

Other (income) expense, net

Other (income) expense, net includes investment and dividend income, interest income on our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and long term marketable securities.  Other (income) expense, net in 2019 decreased to $26.1 million of income compared to $36.6 million of income in 2018. Other income, net decreased primarily due to a land sale of $4.1 million and a divestiture of a product line of $5.1 million that both occurred in 2018, and higher other-than-temporary impairment losses on equity method investments that were recorded in light of the investees' financial condition in 2019.

Effective tax rate

Our effective tax rate was 22.2% and 28.7% in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2018 was driven by detriments due to non-deductible impairment charges and the taxation of our foreign operations, partially offset by a $49 million benefit recorded as a result of the completion of our accounting for the Tax Act under SAB 118. Our effective tax rate may be impacted in the future, either favorably or unfavorably, by many factors including, but not limited to, changes in the geographic mix of earnings, changes to statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or regulations, tax audits and settlements, and generation of tax credits.

Our income tax returns are routinely audited by U.S. federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by many of these tax authorities. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We do not believe any currently pending uncertain tax positions will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these uncertain tax positions in any period may have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.

We record liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions. We do not believe the resolution of our uncertain tax positions the results of operations for that period.

As of December 31, 2019, based on the expected outcome of certain examinations or as a result of the expiration of statutes of limitation for certain jurisdictions, we believe that within the next twelve months it is reasonably possible that our previously unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by approximately $2.8 million. Substantially all such amounts will impact our effective income tax rate.

Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2018 to the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed on April 16, 2019, for the discussion of the comparison of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the earliest of the three fiscal years presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

35

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Bio-Rad operates and conducts business globally, primarily through subsidiary companies established in the markets in which we trade.  Goods are manufactured in a small number of locations, and are then shipped to local distribution facilities around the world.  Our product mix is diversified, and certain products compete largely on product efficacy, while others compete on price.  Gross margins are generally sufficient to exceed normal operating costs, and funding for research and development of new products, as well as routine outflows of capital expenditures, interest and taxes.  In addition to the annual positive cash flow from operating activities, additional liquidity is readily available via the sale of short-term investments and access to our domestic $200.0 million unsecured Credit Agreement that we entered into in April 2019, and to a lesser extent international lines of credit. Borrowings under the 2019 Credit Agreement are available on a revolving basis and can be used to make permitted acquisitions, for working capital and for other general corporate purposes. We had no outstanding borrowings under the 2019 Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2019; however, $0.2 million was utilized for domestic standby letters of credit that reduced our borrowing availability.  The 2019 Credit Agreement matures in April 2024. In total under domestic and international lines of credit, standby letters of credit and guarantee arrangements, we had approximately $207.5 million available for borrowing and usage as of December 31, 2019, which was reduced by approximately $4.2 million that was utilized for standby letters of credit and guarantee arrangements issued by our banks to support our obligations. Management believes that this availability, together with cash flow from operations, will be adequate to meet our current objectives for operations, research and development, capital additions for manufacturing and distribution, plant and equipment, information technology systems and an acquisition of reasonable proportion to our existing total available capital. However, we have outstanding $425.0 million principal amount of Senior Notes that are due in December 2020 (4.875% Notes). We are currently assessing the repayment of the 4.875% Notes and believe we have adequate resources to repay or finance this obligation.

At December 31, 2019, we had available $1,114.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately 21% was held in our foreign subsidiaries. We believe that our holdings of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in the U.S. and in our foreign subsidiaries are sufficient to meet both the current and long-term needs of our global operations. The amount of funds held in the United States can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and foreign cash flows (both inflows and outflows).

It is generally our intention to repatriate certain foreign earnings to the extent that such repatriations are not restricted by local laws or accounting rules, and there are no substantial incremental costs.

Demand for our products and services could change more dramatically than in previous years based on activity, funding, reimbursement constraints and support levels from government, universities, hospitals and private industry, including diagnostic laboratories.  The need for certain sovereign nations with large annual deficits to curtail spending, and international trade disputes and increased regulation, could lead to slower growth of, or even a decline in, our business. Sovereign nations either delaying payment for goods and services or renegotiating their debts could impact our liquidity.

36

Cash Flows from Operations

Net cash provided by operations was $457.9 million and $285.5 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The net increase between 2019 and 2018 of $172.4 million primarily resulted from:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• lower cash paid to suppliers that included value added tax refunds of approximately $53 million in 2019,

- -------------------------------------------------------
• lower income tax payments in 2019 compared to 2018, and

- ------------------------------------------------------
• higher investment income received, partially offset by

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• lower comparative cash received from customers in 2019 was primarily due to higher collections in 2018 subsequent to the ERP implementation in 2017, and

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• forward foreign exchange contracts had lower net proceeds in 2019 compared to 2018.

Cash flows from operations during the first quarter have historically had larger payments for royalties, fourth quarter sales commissions to third parties and annual employee bonuses, and we expect this pattern to recur in the first quarter of 2020.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $208.9 million and $187.0 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively. The net increase between 2019 and 2018 of $21.9 million was primarily due to payments for acquisitions in 2019, and to a lesser extent proceeds for a divestiture of a product line in 2018 as discussed below. These were partially offset primarily by lower capital expenditures in 2019 than in 2018 as discussed below, and for sales of marketable securities and investments that increased by $27.6 million in 2019 compared to 2018. Other items that affected cash flows from investing activities are further discussed below.

Our investment objective is to maintain liquidity to meet anticipated operational and other corporate requirements in which capital is preserved and increased through investing in low risk, high quality securities with commensurate returns, consistent with our risk tolerance level.

During the first quarter of 2019, we received $7.4 million from an escrow release related to an acquisition from 2011 within the Life Science Group. During the first quarter of 2018, we received $7.0 million for a divestiture of a product line and $4.1 million for a land sale.

In October 2019, we acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of a foreign distributor for approximately $4.2 million, which included cash payments at closing, net of closing cash, of $3.6 million, and $0.6 million in contingent consideration potentially payable to the sellers. The acquisition does not meet the significant or material subsidiary test. The purchase price allocation is preliminary as additional time is required to complete the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.

In August 2019, we acquired all the issued and outstanding membership interests of Exact Diagnostics, LLC for approximately $60.0 million. Cash payments at closing, net of closing cash, were $59.7 million. The acquisition does not meet the significant or material subsidiary test.

In March 2019, we completed the acquisition of all the issued and outstanding stock of a small U.S. private company for approximately $20.0 million. Cash payments, net of closing cash, consisted of $4.0 million paid in November 2018 and the remaining $16.0 million paid in March 2019. The acquisition does not meet the significant or material subsidiary test.

The above acquisitions are immaterial to Bio-Rad taken as a whole for the periods presented.

37

We continue to review possible acquisitions, including early stage businesses, to expand both our Life Science and Clinical Diagnostics segments. We routinely meet with the principals or brokers of the subject companies.  However, it is not certain at this time that any of these discussions will advance to completion.

Capital expenditures in 2019 totaled $98.5 million, compared to $129.8 million in 2018. Capital expenditures represent the addition and replacement of production machinery and research equipment, ongoing manufacturing and facility additions for expansion, regulatory, environmental and compliance. Also included in capital expenditures are investments in business systems and data communication upgrades and enhancements, including the remaining phases of the global enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform.  All periods include equipment placed with Clinical Diagnostics segment customers who then contract to purchase our reagents for use. Capital expenditures were lower in 2019 than in 2018 primarily due to implementing smaller phases of the ERP platform. In addition in 2018, we made an investment in two office buildings and adjacent land in the greater San Francisco Bay Area, California.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $22.8 million compared to $48.7 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was lower in 2019 than 2018 primarily due to lower repurchases of our common stock in 2019 than in 2018 of $20.9 million.

We have outstanding 4.875% Notes of $425.0 million, which are due in December 2020. We are currently assessing the repayment of the 4.875% Notes and believe we have adequate resources to repay or finance this obligation.
We believe the current cash is sufficient to meet normal operating costs, and funding for research and development of new products, as well as routine outflows of capital expenditures, interest and taxes.

Treasury Shares

During 2019, 137,748 shares of our Class A treasury stock and 917 shares of our Class B treasury stock, with an aggregate total cost of $38.7 million, were reissued to fulfill annual grants to employees under our restricted stock program, and to fulfill our Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchases.  Upon reissuing the Class A and B treasury stock under our restricted stock program, a loss of $8.4 million was incurred as they were reissued at a lower price than their average cost, which reduced Retained earnings while $24.9 million reduced Additional paid-in-capital.  These reissuances for the restricted stock program did not require cash payments or receipts and therefore did not affect liquidity.  Upon fulfilling our Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchases, a loss of $1.6 million was incurred as they were issued at a lower price than the average cost, which reduced Retained earnings and resulted in net proceeds of $3.8 million.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have had or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Contractual Obligations
The following summarizes certain of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our cash flows in future periods (in millions):

38

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------- ---- ----- ----- ----- -------- ---- ----- --- - ---

 Payments Due by Period
 LessThan 1-3 3-5 Morethan
Contractual Obligations Total One Year Years Years 5 Years
Long-term debt, including current portion (1) $ 440.4 $ 426.8 $ 3.1 $ 0.8 $ 9.7
Interest payments (1) 28.8 20.1 1.7 1.4 5.6
Operating lease obligations (2) 255.4 41.0 64.4 46.3 103.7
Purchase obligations (3) 35.8 34.0 1.3 0.3 0.2
Long-term liabilities (4) 118.4 5.2 17.3 7.6 88.3

(1) These amounts represent expected cash payments, including finance lease obligations, which are included in our December 31, 2019 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our debt is fixed and primarily consists of the 4.875% Notes. See Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our debt.

(2) Operating lease obligations are described in Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding to Bio-Rad and that specify all significant terms. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. Recognition of purchase obligations occurs when products or services are delivered to Bio-Rad.

(4) These amounts primarily represent recognized long-term obligations for other post-employment benefits mostly due in more than 5 years, and long-term deferred revenue. Excluded from this table are tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions and contingencies in the amount of $47.6 million. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows of these tax liabilities, therefore, our income tax obligations are excluded from the table above. See Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our income taxes.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and to be Adopted

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for recent accounting pronouncements adopted and to be adopted.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 5]:
(5) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. Strategy For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2020, we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single point of contact; - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * The further optimization of our customer mix and fleet mix, with a dual objective: to enhance our performance in serving our current customer base, and to focus on the accounts and customer types that are best suited to our strategy for profitable growth. We believe these efforts will lead to even better service of our target accounts, primarily large construction and industrial customers, as well as select l...

[See Note 6]:
NOTE 6. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS We may use derivatives to partially offset our business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows, and certain existing assets and liabilities. We do not use any of our derivative instruments for trading purposes. We enter into master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. We do not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. We also enter into collateral security agreements with certain of our counterparties to exchange cash collateral when the net fair value of certain derivative instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. Collateral posted is included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and collateral received is included in accrued expenses on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Cash Flow Hedges In countries outside the United States, we transact business in U.S. Dollars and in various other currencies. We may use foreign exchange option contracts or forward contracts to hedge a portion of our forecasted foreign currency denominated revenue. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, have maturities of up to twelve months. As of November 29, 2019, total notional amounts of outstanding cash flow hedges were $1.20 billion, hedging exposures denominated in Euros, British Pounds and Japanese Yen. In June 2019, in anticipation of refinancing our $2.25 billion Term Loan due April 30, 2020 and $900 million notes payable due February 1, 2020, we entered into Treasury lock agreements with large financial institutions which fixed benchmark U.S. Treasury rates for an aggregate notional amount of $1 billion of our future debt issuance. These derivative instruments hedge the impact of changes in the benchmark interest rate to future interest payments and will be terminated upon closing of our ant...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
(5) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. Strategy For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2020, we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single point of contact; - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- are best suited to our strategy for profitable growth. We believe these efforts will lead to even better service of our target accounts, primarily large construction and industrial customers, as well as select l...

[Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Rent expense includes base contractual rent and variable costs such as building expenses, utilities, taxes, insurance and equipment rental. Rent expense for these leases was approximately $170.5 million, $137.2 million and $115.4 million in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our sublease income was immaterial for all periods presented. Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations and operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter as of November 29, 2019: -------------- -------------------- --------- -------------------------- ------- --------------------------- ------- ----- - ------ (in thousands) Operating Leases Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations FutureMinimumLeasePayments FutureMinimumSubleaseIncome 2020 $ 545,042 $ 98,200 $ 9,523 2021 407,528 91,866 9,000 2022 528,266 81,493 6,362 2023 555,658 68,539 2,327 2024 -- 60,691 -- Thereafter -- 337,903 -- Total $ 2,036,494 $ 738,692 $ 27,212 98 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded under our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $153.7 million, $119.1 million and $100.9 million in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and cha...

[Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 6. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS We may use derivatives to partially offset our business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows, and certain existing assets and liabilities. We do not use any of our derivative instruments for trading purposes. We enter into master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. We do not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. We also enter into collateral security agreements with certain of our counterparties to exchange cash collateral when the net fair value of certain derivative instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. Collateral posted is included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and collateral received is included in accrued expenses on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Cash Flow Hedges In countries outside the United States, we transact business in U.S. Dollars and in various other currencies. We may use foreign exchange option contracts or forward contracts to hedge a portion of our forecasted foreign currency denominated revenue. These foreign exchange contracts, carried at fair value, have maturities of up to twelve months. As of November 29, 2019, total notional amounts of outstanding cash flow hedges were $1.20 billion, hedging exposures denominated in Euros, British Pounds and Japanese Yen. In June 2019, in anticipation of refinancing our $2.25 billion Term Loan due April 30, 2020 and $900 million notes payable due February 1, 2020, we entered into Treasury lock agreements with large financial institutions which fixed benchmark U.S. Treasury rates for an aggregate notional amount of $1 billion of our future debt issuance. These derivative instruments hedge the impact of changes in the benchmark interest rate to future interest payments and will be terminated upon closing of our ant...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[Refer to Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 13