================================================================================
CIK: 0000916076
Company Name: MARTIN MARIETTA MATERIALS INC
Filing Date: 2020-02-21
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 13:55:43
================================================================================

Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

sources: equity risk premium, historical beta, risk-free interest rate, small-stock premium, company-specific premium and borrowing rate.

The terminal growth rate was based on average GDP increases.

Management believes that all assumptions used were reasonable based on historical operating results and expected future trends. However, if future operating results are unfavorable as compared with forecasts, the results of future goodwill impairment evaluations could be negatively affected. Further, mineral reserves, which represent underlying assets producing the reporting units’ cash flows for the aggregates product line, are depleting assets by their nature. Any potential impairment charges from future evaluations represent a risk to the Company.

Pension Expense-Selection of Assumptions

The Company sponsors noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all employees and a Supplemental Excess Retirement Plan (SERP) for certain retirees (see Note K to the audited consolidated financial statements). Annual pension expense (inclusive of SERP expense) consists of several components:

 • Service Cost, which represents the present value of benefits attributed to services rendered in the current year, measured by expected future salary levels;

 • Interest Cost, which represents one year’s additional interest on the outstanding liability;

 • Expected Return on Assets, which represents the expected investment return on pension plan assets; and

 • Amortization of Prior Service Cost and Actuarial Gains and Losses, which represents components that are recognized over time rather than immediately. Prior service cost represents credit given to employees for years of service prior to plan inception, of which there is an insignificant amount at December 31, 2019. Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes in assumptions regarding future events or when actual returns on pension assets differ from expected returns. At December 31, 2019, the unrecognized actuarial loss was $229.4 million. Pension accounting rules currently allow companies to amortize the portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss that represents more than 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or pension plan assets, using the average remaining service life for the amortization period. Therefore, the $229.4 million unrecognized actuarial loss consists of $131.6 million currently subject to amortization in 2020 and $97.8 million not subject to amortization in 2020. $13.5 million of amortization of the actuarial loss is estimated to be a component of 2020 annual pension expense.

These components are calculated annually to determine the pension expense reflected in the Company’s results of operations.

Management believes the selection of assumptions related to the annual pension expense is a critical accounting estimate due to the high degree of volatility in the expense dependent on selected assumptions. The key assumptions are as follows:

 • The discount rate is used to present value the pension obligation and represents the current rate at which the pension obligations could be effectively settled.

 • The expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets is used to estimate future asset returns and should reflect the average rate of long-term earnings on assets invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation.

 • The mortality table represents published statistics on the expected lives of people.

 • The rate of increase in future compensation levels is used to project the pay-related pension benefit formula and should estimate actual future compensation levels.

Management’s selection of the discount rate is based on an analysis that estimates the current rate of return for high-quality, fixed-income investments with maturities matching the payment of pension benefits that could be purchased to settle the obligations. The Company selected a hypothetical portfolio of Moody’s Aa bonds, with maturities that match the benefit obligations, to determine the discount rate. At December 31, 2019, the Company selected a discount rate assumption of 3.69%, a 69-basis-point decrease compared with the prior-year assumption. Of the four key assumptions, the discount rate is generally the most volatile and sensitive estimate. Accordingly, a change in this assumption has the most significant impact on the annual pension expense.

Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Form 10-K ♦ Page 63

Part II  ♦  Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management’s selection of the rate of increase in future compensation levels is generally based on the Company’s historical salary increases, including cost of living adjustments and merit and promotion increases, considering any known future trends. A higher rate of increase results in higher pension expense. The assumed long-term rate of increase is 4.5%.

Management’s selection of the expected long-term rate of return on pension fund assets is based on a building-block approach, whereby the components are weighted based on the allocation of pension plan assets. Given that these returns are long term, there are generally not significant fluctuations in the expected rate of return from year to year. Based on the currently projected returns on these assets and related expenses, the Company selected an expected return on assets of 6.75%, the same as the prior-year rate. The following table presents the expected return on pension assets as compared with the actual return on pension assets:

------------- --------------------------------- -------------------------------
(in millions) Expected Return on Pension Assets Actual Return on Pension Assets
 2019 $47.9 $131.3
 2018 $46.0 $(40.8)

The difference between the expected return and the actual return on pension assets is not immediately recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings. Rather, pension accounting rules require the difference to be included in actuarial gains and losses, which are amortized into annual pension expense as previously described.

At December 31, 2019, the Company estimates the remaining lives of participants in the pension plans using the Society of Actuaries’ Pri-2012 Base Mortality Table. The no-collar table was used for salaried participants and the blue-collar table was used for hourly participants, both reflecting the experience of the Company’s participants. The Company selected the MP-2018 scale for mortality improvement.

Assumptions are selected on December 31 to calculate the succeeding year’s expense. For the 2019 pension expense, assumptions selected at December 31, 2018 were as follows:

Discount rate 4.38%
------------------------------------------------- --------
Rate of increase in future compensation levels 4.50%
Expected long-term rate of return on assets 6.75%
Average remaining service period for participants 10 years
Mortality Tables:
Base Table RP-2014
Mortality Improvement Scale MP-2018

Using these assumptions, 2019 pension expense was $36.5 million. A change in the assumptions would have had the following impact on 2019 expense:

 • A 25-basis-point change in the discount rate would have changed the 2019 expense by approximately $3.6 million.

 • A 25-basis-point change in the expected long-term rate of return on assets would have changed the 2019 expense by approximately $1.8 million.

For 2020 pension expense, assumptions selected at December 31, 2019 were as follows:

Discount rate 3.69%
------------------------------------------------- --------
Rate of increase in future compensation levels 4.50%
Expected long-term rate of return on assets 6.75%
Average remaining service period for participants 10 years
Mortality Tables:
Base Table Pri-2012
Mortality Improvement Scale MP-2018

Form 10-K ♦ Page 64 Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company
------------------- ----------------------------------------

Part II  ♦  Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Using these assumptions, 2020 pension expense is expected to be approximately $31.2 million based on current demographics and structure of the plans. Changes in the underlying assumptions would have the following estimated impact on the 2020 expected expense:

 • A 25-basis-point change in the discount rate would change the 2020 expected expense by approximately $4.4 million.

 • A 25-basis-point change in the expected long-term rate of return on assets would change the 2020 expected expense by approximately $2.2 million.

The Company made pension plan contributions of $58.9 million in 2019 and $350.8 million during the five-year period ended December 31, 2019. Despite these contributions, the Company’s pension plans are underfunded (projected benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets) by $109.8 million at December 31, 2019. The Company’s projected benefit obligation was $977.8 million at December 31, 2019, an increase of $129.9 million versus the prior year, driven by the lower discount rate. The Company expects to make pension plan and SERP contributions of $60.2 million in 2020, of which $50.0 million
are voluntary.

Estimated Effective Income Tax Rate

The Company uses the liability method to determine its provision for income taxes. Accordingly, the annual provision for income taxes reflects estimates of the current liability for income taxes, estimates of the tax effect of financial reporting versus tax basis differences using statutory income tax rates and management’s judgment with respect to any valuation allowances on deferred tax assets. The result is management’s estimate of the annual effective tax rate (the “ETR”).

Income for tax purposes is determined through the application of the rules and regulations under the United States Internal Revenue Code and the statutes of various foreign, state and local tax jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business. Changes in the statutory tax rates and/or tax laws in these jurisdictions can have a material effect on the ETR. The effect of these changes, if material, is recognized when the change is enacted.

As prescribed by these tax regulations, as well as generally accepted accounting principles, the manner in which revenues and expenses are recognized for financial reporting and income tax purposes is not always the same. Therefore, these differences between the Company’s pretax income for financial reporting purposes and the amount of taxable income for income tax purposes are treated as either temporary or permanent, depending on their nature.

Temporary differences reflect revenues or expenses that are recognized in financial reporting in one period and taxable income in a different period. An example of a temporary difference is the use of the straight-line method of depreciation of machinery and equipment for financial reporting purposes and the use of an accelerated method for income tax purposes. Temporary differences result from differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis of assets or liabilities and give rise to deferred tax assets or liabilities (i.e., future tax deductions or future taxable income). Therefore, when temporary differences occur, they are offset by a corresponding change in a deferred tax account. As such, total income tax expense as reported in the Company’s consolidated statements of earnings is not changed by temporary differences.

The Company has deferred tax liabilities, primarily for property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, employee pension and postretirement benefits and partnerships and joint ventures. The deferred tax liabilities attributable to property, plant and equipment relate to accelerated depreciation and depletion methods used for income tax purposes as compared with the straight-line and units-of-production methods used for financial reporting purposes. These temporary differences will reverse over the remaining useful lives of the related assets. The deferred tax liabilities attributable to goodwill arise as a result of amortizing goodwill for income tax purposes but not for financial reporting purposes. This temporary difference reverses when goodwill is written off for financial reporting purposes, either through divestitures or an impairment charge. The timing of such events cannot be estimated. The deferred tax liabilities attributable to employee pension and postretirement benefits relate to deductions as plans are funded for income tax purposes compared with deductions for financial reporting purposes based on accounting standards. The reversal of these differences depends on the timing of the Company’s contributions to the related benefit plans as compared to the annual expense for financial reporting purposes. The deferred tax liabilities attributable to partnerships and joint ventures relate to the difference between the tax basis of the investments in partnerships and joint ventures when compared to the basis for financial reporting purposes. The temporary difference reverses through differences recognized over the life of the investment or through divestiture.

The Company has deferred tax assets, primarily for inventories, unvested stock-based compensation awards, unrecognized losses related to the funded status of the pension and postretirement benefit plans, valuation reserves, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. The deferred tax assets attributable to inventories and valuation reserves relate

Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Form 10-K ♦ Page 65

Part II  ♦  Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

to the deduction of estimated cost reserves and various period expenses for financial reporting purposes that are deductible in a later period for income tax purposes. The reversal of these differences depends on facts and circumstances, including the timing of deduction for income tax purposes for reserves previously established and the establishment of additional reserves for financial reporting purposes. The deferred tax assets attributable to unvested stock-based compensation awards relate to differences in the timing of deductibility for financial reporting purposes versus income tax purposes. For financial reporting purposes, the fair value of the awards is deducted ratably over the requisite service period. For income tax purposes, no deduction is allowed until the award is vested or no longer subject to substantial risk of forfeiture. The Company records all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies as income tax expense or benefit as a discrete event in the period in which the award vests or settles, increasing volatility in the income tax rate from period to period.

Business Combinations – Allocation of Purchase Price

The Company’s Board of Directors and management regularly review strategic long-term plans, including potential investments in value-added acquisitions of related or similar businesses, which would increase the Company’s market share and/or are related to the Company’s existing markets. When an acquisition is completed, the Company’s consolidated statements of earnings include the operating results of the acquired business starting from the date of acquisition, which is the date control is obtained. The purchase price is determined based on the fair value of assets and equity interests given to the seller and any future obligations to the seller as of the date of acquisition. Additionally, conversion of the seller’s equity awards into equity awards of the Company can affect the purchase price. The Company allocates the purchase price to the fair values of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as valued at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recorded for the excess of the purchase price over the net of the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation is a critical accounting policy because the estimation of fair values of acquired assets and assumed liabilities is judgmental and requires various assumptions. Further, the amounts and useful lives assigned to depreciable and amortizable assets versus amounts assigned to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are not amortized, can significantly affect the results of operations in the period of and for periods subsequent to a business combination.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction, and, therefore, represents an exit price.  A fair-value measurement assumes the highest and best use of the asset by market participants, considering the use of the asset that is physically possible, legally permissible, and financially feasible at the measurement date.  The Company assigns the highest level of fair value available to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the following options:

 • Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities

 • Level 2 – Observable inputs, other than quoted prices, for similar assets or liabilities in active markets

 • Level 3 – Unobservable inputs, used to value the asset or liability which includes the use of valuation models

Level 1 fair values are used to value investments in publicly-traded entities and assumed obligations for publicly-traded long-term debt.

Level 2 fair values are typically used to value acquired receivables, inventories, machinery and equipment, land, buildings, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, and accruals for payables, asset retirement obligations, environmental remediation and compliance obligations, and contingencies. Additionally, Level 2 fair values are typically used to value assumed contracts at other-than-market rates.

Level 3 fair values are used to value acquired mineral reserves and mineral interests produced and sold as final products, and separately-identifiable intangible assets. The fair values of mineral reserves and mineral interests are determined using an excess earnings approach, which requires management to estimate future cash flows, net of capital investments in the specific operation and contributory asset charges. The estimate of future cash flows is based on available historical information and future expectations and assumptions determined by management, but is inherently uncertain. Key assumptions in estimating future cash flows include changes in sales price, shipment volumes and production costs as well as capital needs. The present value of the projected net cash flows represents the fair value assigned to mineral reserves and mineral interests. The discount rate is a significant assumption used in the valuation model and is based on the required rate of return that a hypothetical market participant would require if purchasing the acquired business, with an adjustment for the risk of these assets not generating the projected cash flows.

Form 10-K ♦ Page 66 Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company
------------------- ----------------------------------------

Part II  ♦  Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The Company values separately-identifiable acquired intangible assets which may include, but are not limited to, permits, customer relationships, water rights and noncompetition agreements. The fair values of these assets are typically determined by an excess earnings method, a replacement cost method or, in the case of water rights, a market approach.

The useful lives of amortizable intangible assets and the remaining useful lives for acquired machinery and equipment have a significant impact on earnings. The selected lives are based on the expected periods that the assets will provide value to the Company subsequent to the business combination.

The Company may adjust the amounts recognized for a business combination during a measurement period after the acquisition date. Any such adjustments are based on the Company obtaining additional information that existed at the acquisition date regarding the assets acquired or the liabilities assumed. Measurement-period adjustments are generally recorded as increases or decreases to the goodwill recognized in the transaction. The measurement period ends once the Company has obtained all necessary information that existed as of the acquisition date, but does not extend beyond one year from the date of acquisition. Any adjustments to assets acquired or liabilities assumed beyond the measurement period are recorded through earnings.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Net property, plant and equipment represent 51% of total assets at December 31, 2019. Accordingly, accounting for these assets represents a critical accounting policy. Useful lives of the assets can vary depending on factors, including production levels, geographic location, portability and maintenance practices. Additionally, climate and inclement weather can reduce the useful life of an asset. Historically, the Company has not recognized significant losses on the disposal or retirement of fixed assets.

Aggregates mineral reserves and mineral interests are components within the plant, property and equipment balance on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company evaluates aggregates reserves, including those used in the cement manufacturing process, in several ways, depending on the geology at a particular location and whether the location is a greensite, an acquisition or an existing operation. Greensites require an extensive drilling program before any significant investment is made in terms of time, site development or efforts to obtain appropriate zoning and permitting (see Environmental Regulation and Litigation section). The depth of overburden and the quality and quantity of the aggregates reserves are significant factors in determining whether to pursue opening the site. Further, the estimated average selling price for products in a market is also a significant factor in concluding that reserves are economically mineable. If the Company’s analysis based on these factors is satisfactory, the total aggregates reserves available are calculated and a determination is made whether to open the location. Reserve evaluation at existing locations is typically performed to evaluate purchasing adjoining properties, for quality control, calculating overburden volumes and for mine planning. Reserve evaluation of acquisitions may require a higher degree of sampling to locate any problem areas that may exist and to verify the total reserves.

Well-ordered subsurface sampling of the underlying deposit is basic to determining reserves at any location. This subsurface sampling usually involves one or more types of drilling, determined by the nature of the material to be sampled and the particular objective of the sampling. The Company’s objectives are to ensure that the underlying deposit meets aggregates specifications and the total reserves on site are sufficient for mining and economically recoverable. Locations underlain with hard rock deposits, such as granite and limestone, are drilled using the diamond core method, which provides the most useful and accurate samples of the deposit. Selected core samples are tested for soundness, abrasion resistance and other physical properties relevant to the aggregates industry and depend on the aggregates use. The number and depth of the holes are determined by the size of the site and the complexity of the site-specific geology. Some geological factors that may affect the number and depth of holes include faults, folds, chemical irregularities, clay pockets, thickness of formations and weathering. A typical spacing of core holes on the area to be tested is one hole for every four acres, but wider spacing may be justified if the deposit is homogeneous.

Despite previous drilling and sampling, once accessed, the quality of reserves within a deposit can vary. Construction contracts, for the infrastructure market in particular, include specifications related to the aggregates material. If a flaw in the deposit is discovered, the aggregates material may not meet the required specifications. Although it is possible that the aggregates material can still be used for non-specification uses, this can have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to serve certain customers or on the Company’s profitability. In addition, other issues can arise that limit the Company’s ability to access reserves in a particular quarry, including geological occurrences, blasting practices and zoning issues.

Locations underlain with sand and gravel are typically drilled using the auger method, whereby a six-inch corkscrew brings up material from below the ground which is then sampled. Deposits in these locations are typically limited in thickness.

Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Form 10-K ♦ Page 67

Part II  ♦  Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Additionally, the quality and sand-to-gravel ratio of the deposit can vary both horizontally and vertically. Hole spacing at these locations is approximately one hole for every acre to ensure a representative sampling.

The geologist conducting the reserve evaluation makes the decision as to the number of holes and the spacing in accordance with standards and procedures established by the Company. Further, the anticipated heterogeneity of the deposit, based on U.S. geological maps, also dictates the number of holes drilled.

The generally accepted reserve categories for the aggregates industry and the designations the Company uses for reserve categories are summarized as follows:

Proven Reserves – These reserves are designated using closely spaced drill data as described above and a determination by a professional geologist that the deposit is relatively homogeneous based on the drilling results and exploration data provided in U.S. geologic maps, the U.S. Department of Agriculture soil maps, aerial photographs and/or electromagnetic, seismic or other surveys conducted by independent geotechnical engineering firms. The proven reserves that are recorded reflect reductions incurred through quarrying that result from leaving ramps, safety benches, pillars (underground) and the fines (small particles) that will be generated during processing. Proven reserves are further reduced by reserves that are under the plant and stockpile areas, as well as setbacks from neighboring property lines. The Company typically assumes a loss factor of 25%. However, the assumed loss factor at coastal operations is approximately 40% due to the nature of the material. The assumed loss factor for underground operations is 35% primarily due to pillars.

Probable Reserves – These reserves are inferred utilizing fewer drill holes and/or assumptions about the economically recoverable reserves based on local geology or drill results from adjacent properties.

The Company’s proven and probable reserves reflect reasonable economic and operating constraints as to maximum depth of overburden and stone excavation, and also include reserves at the Company’s inactive and undeveloped sites, including some sites where permitting and zoning applications will not be filed until warranted by expected future growth. The Company has historically been successful in obtaining and maintaining appropriate zoning and permitting (see Environmental Regulation and Litigation section).

Mineral reserves and mineral interests, when acquired in connection with a business combination, are valued using an excess earnings approach for the life of the proven and probable reserves.

The Company uses proven and probable reserves as the denominator in its units-of-production calculation to record depletion expense for its mineral reserves and mineral interests. For 2019, depletion expense was $37.5 million.

The Company begins capitalizing quarry development costs at a point when reserves are determined to be proven or probable, economically mineable and when demand supports investment in the market. Capitalization of these costs ceases when production commences. Capitalized quarry development costs are classified as land improvements.

New mining areas may be developed at existing quarries in order to access additional reserves. When this occurs, management reviews the facts and circumstances of each situation in making a determination as to the appropriateness of capitalizing or expensing the related pre-production development costs. If the additional mining location operates in a separate and distinct area of a quarry, the costs are capitalized as quarry development costs and depreciated over the life of the uncovered reserves. Further, a separate asset retirement obligation is created for additional mining areas when the liability is incurred. Once a new mining area enters the production phase, all post-production stripping costs are expensed as incurred as periodic inventory production costs.

Form 10-K ♦ Page 68 Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company
------------------- ----------------------------------------

Part II  ♦  Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Forward-Looking Statements – Safe Harbor Provisions

If you are interested in Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. stock, management recommends that, at a minimum, you read the Company’s Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC over the past year, in addition to the Annual Report. The Company’s recent proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders also contains important information. These and other materials that have been filed with the SEC are accessible through the Company’s website at www.martinmarietta.com and are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. You may also write or call the Company’s Corporate Secretary, who will provide copies of such reports.

Investors are cautioned that all statements in this Annual Report that relate to the future involve risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that the Company believes in good faith are reasonable but which may be materially different from actual results. These statements are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements give the investor the Company’s expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. They may use words such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “should be,” “believe,” “will,” and other words of similar meaning in connection with future events or future operating or financial performance. Any or all of the Company’s forward-looking statements here and in other publications may turn out to be wrong.

These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may affect performance, including but not limited to: the performance of the United States economy; shipment declines resulting from economic events beyond the Company’s control; a widespread decline in aggregates pricing, including a decline in aggregates shipment volume negatively affecting aggregates price; the history of both cement and ready mixed concrete being subject to significant changes in supply, demand and price fluctuations; the termination, capping and/or reduction of the federal and/or state gasoline tax(es) or other revenue related to public construction; the level and timing of federal, state and/or local transportation or infrastructure or public projects funding, most particularly in Texas, Colorado, North Carolina, Georgia, Iowa and Maryland; the volatility in the commencement of infrastructure projects; the United States Congress’ inability to reach agreement among themselves or with the Administration on policy issues that impact the federal budget; the ability of states and/or other entities to finance approved projects either with tax revenues or alternative financing structures; levels of construction spending in the markets the Company serves; a reduction in defense spending, and the subsequent impact on construction activity on or near military bases; a decline in the commercial component of the nonresidential construction market, notably office and retail space; a decline in energy-related construction activity resulting from a sustained period of low global oil prices or changes in oil production patterns in response to this decline, particularly in Texas; increasing residential mortgage rates and other factors that could result in a slowdown in residential construction; unfavorable weather conditions, particularly Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Mexico hurricane activity, the late start to spring or the early onset of winter and the impact of a drought or excessive rainfall in the markets served by the Company, any of which can significantly affect production schedules, volumes, product and/or geographic mix and profitability; the volatility of fuel costs, particularly diesel fuel, and the impact on the cost, or the availability generally, of other consumables, namely steel, explosives, tires and conveyor belts, and with respect to the Company’s Magnesia Specialties business, natural gas; continued increases in the cost of other repair and supply parts; construction labor shortages and/or supply‐chain challenges; unexpected equipment failures, unscheduled maintenance, industrial accident or other prolonged and/or significant disruption to production facilities; increasing governmental regulation, including environmental laws; the failure of relevant government agencies to implement expected regulatory reductions; transportation availability or a sustained reduction in capital investment by the railroads, notably the availability of railcars, locomotive power and the condition of rail infrastructure to move trains to supply the Company’s Texas, Colorado, Florida, North Carolinas and the Gulf Coast markets, including the movement of essential dolomitic lime for magnesia chemicals to the Company’s plant in Manistee, Michigan and its customers; increased transportation costs, including increases from higher or fluctuating passed-through energy costs or fuel surcharges, and other costs to comply with tightening regulations, as well as higher volumes of rail and water shipments; availability of trucks and licensed drivers for transport of the Company’s materials; availability and cost of construction equipment in the United States; weakening in the steel industry markets served by the Company’s dolomitic lime products; trade disputes with one or more nations impacting the U.S. economy, including the impact of tariffs on the steel industry; unplanned changes in costs or realignment of customers that introduce volatility to earnings, including that of the Magnesia Specialties business that is running at capacity; proper functioning of information technology and automated operating systems to manage or support operations; inflation and its effect on both production and interest costs; the concentration of customers in construction markets and the increased risk of potential losses on customer receivables; the impact of the level of demand in the Company’s end-use markets, production levels and management of production costs on the operating leverage and therefore profitability of the Company; the possibility that the expected synergies from acquisitions will not be realized or will not be

Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company Form 10-K ♦ Page 69

Part II  ♦  Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

realized within the expected time period, including achieving anticipated profitability to maintain compliance with the Company’s leverage ratio debt covenant; changes in tax laws, the interpretation of such laws and/or administrative practices that would increase the Company’s tax rate; violation of the Company’s debt covenant if price and/or volumes return to previous levels of instability; downward pressure on the Company’s common stock price and its impact on goodwill impairment evaluations; the possibility of a reduction of the Company’s credit rating to non-investment grade; shipment declines resulting from economic events beyond the Company’s control; the history of both cement and ready mixed concrete being subject to significant changes in supply, demand and price fluctuations; and other risk factors listed from time to time found in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Further, increased highway construction funding pressures resulting from either federal or state issues can affect profitability. If these negatively affect transportation budgets more than in the past, construction spending could be reduced. Cement is subject to cyclical supply and demand and price fluctuations. The Magnesia Specialties business essentially runs at capacity; therefore, any unplanned changes in costs or realignment of customers introduce volatility to the earnings of this segment.

The Company’s principal business serves customers in construction markets. This concentration could increase the risk of potential losses on customer receivables; however, payment bonds normally posted on public projects, together with lien rights on private projects, mitigate the risk of uncollectible receivables. The level of demand in the Company’s end-use markets, production levels and the management of production costs will affect the operating leverage of the Building Materials business and, therefore, profitability. Production costs in the Building Materials business are also sensitive to energy and raw material prices, both directly and indirectly. Diesel fuel, coal and other consumables change production costs directly through consumption or indirectly by increased energy-related input costs, such as steel, explosives, tires and conveyor belts. Fluctuating diesel fuel pricing also affects transportation costs, primarily through fuel surcharges in the Company’s long-haul distribution network. The Magnesia Specialties business is sensitive to changes in domestic steel capacity utilization as well as the absolute price and fluctuation in the cost of natural gas.

Transportation in the Company’s long-haul network, particularly the supply of rail cars and locomotive power and condition of rail infrastructure to move trains, affects the Company’s efficient transportation of aggregates products in certain markets, most notably Texas, Colorado, Florida, North Carolina and the Gulf Coast. In addition, availability of rail cars and locomotives affects the Company’s movement of essential dolomitic lime for magnesia chemicals to both the Company’s plant in Manistee, Michigan, and its customers. The availability of trucks, drivers and railcars to transport the Company’s product, particularly in markets experiencing high growth and increased demand, is also a risk and pressures the associated costs.

All of the Company’s businesses are also subject to weather-related risks that can significantly affect production schedules and profitability. The first and fourth quarters are most adversely affected by winter weather. Hurricane activity in the Atlantic Ocean and Gulf Coast generally is most active during the third and fourth quarters. In fact, in September and October 2018, respectively, Hurricanes Florence and Michael generated winds, rainfall and flooding which disrupted operations in the Carolinas, Florida and Georgia. In 2019, Hurricane Dorian and Tropical Storm Imelda temporarily disrupted the Company’s operations in the Bahamas and Texas, respectively. However, after flood waters recede, management typically expects an increase in construction activity as roads, homes and businesses are repaired.

Risks also include shipment declines resulting from economic events beyond the Company’s control.

In addition to the foregoing, other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report include but are not limited to those listed above in Item 1, “Business – Competition,” Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Note A: Accounting Policies” and “Note O: Commitments and Contingencies” of the “Notes to Financial Statements” of the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

Form 10-K ♦ Page 70 Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company
------------------- ----------------------------------------

Part II  ♦  Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk