================================================================================
CIK: 0001501585
Company Name: HUNTINGTON INGALLS INDUSTRIES, INC
Filing Date: 2018-02-15
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-30 14:25:34
================================================================================

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Our Business

Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. is America’s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, our Ingalls segment in Mississippi and Newport News segment in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. We also provide a range of services to the governmental, energy, and oil and gas markets through our Technical Solutions segment. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, HII employs approximately 38,000 people operating both domestically and internationally.

We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense technology programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. Our Technical Solutions segment provides a wide range of professional services, including fleet support, integrated missions solutions, nuclear and environmental, and oil and gas services.

The following discussion should be read along with the audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Environment

In August 2011, the BCA established limits on U.S. Government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion for fiscal years 2012 through 2021. The BCA also provided that the defense budget would face “sequestration” cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period, to the extent that discretionary spending limits are exceeded, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the U.S. Coast Guard.

The BBA 2018 provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and raised the budget topline for defense and non-defense discretionary spending. However, sequestration remains in effect for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. Long-term uncertainty remains with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years defense plan, and it is likely that U.S. Government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure.

We cannot predict the impact that sequestration cuts or reprioritization of readiness and modernization investment may have on funding for our individual programs. Long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed, or canceled. In addition, spending cuts and/or reprioritization of defense investment could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers, subcontractors, and employee base. Our contracts or subcontracts under programs in which we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding. Significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the U.S. Navy or significant delays in funding our ship programs would have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

The budget environment, including sequestration as currently mandated, remains a significant long-term risk. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will develop and what challenges budget changes will present for the defense industry. We believe continued budget pressures that result from sequestration and other budget priorities will have serious implications for defense discretionary spending, the defense industrial base, including us, and the customers, employees, suppliers, subcontractors, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. Although it is difficult to determine specific impacts, we expect that over the longer term, the budget environment may result in fewer contract awards and lower revenues, profits, and cash flows from our U.S. Government contracts. Congress and the new Administration continue to discuss various options to address sequestration in future budget planning, but we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. It is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term impacts on us and the entire defense industry.

33

Defense Industry Overview

The United States faces a complex, uncertain, and rapidly changing national security environment. The 2018 National Defense Strategy acknowledges an increasingly complex global security environment, characterized by overt challenges to the free and open international order and the re-emergence of long-term, strategic competition between nations. America also faces an ever more lethal and disruptive battlefield, combined across domains, and conducted at increasing speed and reach. The security environment is also affected by rapid technological advancements and the changing character of war. The drive to develop new technologies is relentless, expanding to more actors with lower barriers of entry, and moving at accelerating speed. New technologies include advanced computing, “big data” analytics, artificial intelligence, autonomy, robotics, directed energy, hypersonics, and biotechnology.

States are the principal actors on the global stage, but non-state actors also threaten the security environment with increasingly sophisticated capabilities. Terrorists, trans-national criminal organizations, cyber hackers, and other malicious non-state actors have increased capabilities of mass disruption. Terrorism remains a persistent condition driven by ideology and unstable political and economic structures.

We expect that the DoD execution of its strategy will require an affordable balance between investments in restoring the readiness of the current force with investments in new capabilities, technologies, and capacity to meet future challenges. The DoD faces the additional challenge of recapitalizing equipment and rebuilding readiness at a time when the DoD is pursuing modernization of its capabilities, while still facing additional budget cuts from sequestration. While the BBA 2018 provided relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019, it is unclear how sequestration could impact programs for 2020 and beyond. BCA spending caps, coupled with other budget priorities, could have a significant impact on future spending plans for defense and non-defense discretionary programs. Decreases in the proposed funding levels for our programs could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, including revenues, goodwill, and long-lived assets.

In December 2016, the U.S. Navy released the findings of a year-long Force Structure Assessment, developed to determine the right balance of existing forces, the ships currently under construction, and the future procurement plans needed to address the ever-evolving and increasingly complex threats that the Navy is required to counter. Notably, the Force Structure Assessment did not present a desired force size the U.S. Navy would pursue if resources were not constrained; it reflected a force level that balances warfighting risk to equipment and personnel against available resources and recommends a force size that can reasonably achieve success. Accordingly, the Force Structure Assessment reflects an objective force of 355 ships, comprised of 12 aircraft carriers, 104 large surface combatants, 52 small surface combatants, 38 amphibious warfare ships, 66 attack submarines, 12 ballistic missile submarines, 32 combat logistics ships, 10 expeditionary/high speed transports, 6 expeditionary support bases, and 23 command and support ships. Additionally, the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act included the SHIPS Act, which made it the policy of our nation to achieve a fleet size of 355 ships. It remains unclear, however, whether the 2016 Force Structure Assessment or the requirements of the SHIPS Act will have any bearing on budget outcomes for fiscal year 2019 and beyond.

The shipbuilding defense industry, as characterized by its competitors, customers, suppliers, potential entrants, and substitutes, is unique in many ways. It is heavily capital and skilled labor intensive. The U.S. Navy, a large single customer with many needs and requirements, dominates the industry's customer base and is served by a supplier base that has trended toward exclusive providers. Smaller shipyards, however, have entered the market to build the U.S. Navy's littoral combat ship. The U.S. Navy must compete with other national priorities, including other defense activities, non-defense discretionary spending, and entitlement programs, for a share of federal budget funding.

The Administration has focused on regulatory reform in order to manage the costs associated with the governmental imposition of private expenditures required to comply with federal regulations. Additionally, an Executive Order issued in February 2017 requires that for every new regulation issued, at least two prior regulations must be identified for elimination, and that the cost of planned regulations be prudently managed and controlled through a budgeting process. The DoD continues to adjust its procurement practices and streamline acquisition organizations and processes in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. While the impact to our business resulting from these initiatives remains uncertain, they could have a material impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the DoD. See Risk Factors in Item 1A.

34

Program Descriptions

For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is included in the Glossary of Programs.

CONTRACTS

We generate most of our revenues from long-term U.S. Government contracts for design, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs, including allowable general and administrative expenses. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are treated as allowable and allocable costs under the FAR and CAS regulations. Examples of costs incurred by us that are not allowable under the FAR and CAS regulations include certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense, and advertising costs.

We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, the DCAA routinely audits the costs we incur that are allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government.

Our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories:

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Flexibly-Priced Contracts - Includes both cost-type and fixed-price incentive contracts. Cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs plus a fee that represents profit. Cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its reasonable efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. Fixed-price incentive contracts also provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs, but are subject to a cost-share limit that affects profitability. Fixed-price incentive contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share limit is reached. Approximately 92%, 94%, and 95% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, were generated from flexibly-priced contracts, including certain fixed-price incentive contracts that have exceeded their cost-share limit.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Firm Fixed-Price Contracts - A firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is predetermined by bid or negotiation and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor. Time and materials contracts, which specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged, are considered firm fixed-price contracts. Approximately 8%, 6%, and 5% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, were generated from firm fixed-price arrangements.

Contract Fees - Negotiated contract fee structures for both flexibly-priced and firm fixed-price contracts include: fixed fee amounts, cost sharing arrangements to reward or penalize contractors for under or over cost target performance, respectively, positive award fees, and negative penalty arrangements. Profit margins may vary materially depending on the negotiated contract fee arrangements, percentage-of-completion of the contract, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined.

Award Fees - Certain contracts contain award fees based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on an evaluation by the customer of our performance against such negotiated criteria. Fees that we are reasonably assured of collecting and can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Management considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations and requires significant judgment and estimates by management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by our management. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. Due to the significant judgment involved in selecting certain of the assumptions used in these

35

policies, it is possible that different parties could choose different assumptions and reach different conclusions. We consider the policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies:

- --------------------
• Revenue recognition;

- -----------------------------------------------------
• Purchase accounting, goodwill, and intangible assets;

- -------------------------------------------
• Litigation, commitments, and contingencies;

- -------------------------------------
• Retirement related benefit plans; and

- ----------------------
• Workers' compensation.

Revenue Recognition

Overview - Most of our revenues are derived from long-term contracts for the production of goods and services provided to the federal government, which are accounted for in conformity with GAAP for construction-type and production-type contracts and federal government contractors. We have other types of contracts, such as services and commercial arrangements, for which revenues are recognized upon delivery or as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Costs related to these contracts are expensed as incurred. We classify contract revenues as product sales or service revenues depending on the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts. We consider the nature of these contracts and the types of products and services provided when determining the proper accounting method for a particular contract.

Percentage-of-Completion Accounting - We generally recognize revenues from our long-term contracts under the cost-to-cost measure of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion method recognizes income as work on a contract progresses. For most contracts, we calculate sales based on the percentage of costs incurred in relation to total Estimated Costs at Completion of the contract ("EAC"). For certain contracts with large up-front purchases of material, sales are calculated based on the percentage that direct labor costs incurred bear to total estimated direct labor costs at completion. For certain contracts that provide for deliveries of a substantial number of similar units, sales are accounted for using units of delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completion.

The use of the percentage-of-completion method depends on our ability to make reasonably dependable cost estimates for the design, manufacture, and delivery of our products and services. Such costs are typically incurred over a period of several years, and estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. We record sales under cost-type contracts as costs are incurred.

Many contracts contain positive and negative profit incentives based upon performance relative to predetermined targets that may occur during or subsequent to delivery of the product. These incentives take the form of potential additional fees to be earned or penalties to be incurred. Incentives and award fees that we are reasonably assured of collecting and can be reasonably estimated are recorded over the performance period of the contract. Incentives and award fees that we are not reasonably assured of collecting or cannot be reasonably estimated are recorded when awarded or at such time as a reasonable estimate can be made.

At the start of each contract, we estimate an initial profit-booking rate that considers risks related to technical requirements and feasibility, schedule, and contract costs. Management then performs periodic reviews of our contracts in order to evaluate technical matters, schedule, and contract costs. During the life of a contract, the profit-booking rate may increase as we are able to retire risks in connection with technical matters, schedule, and contract costs. Conversely, if we are not able to retire these risks, our EAC may increase, resulting in a lower profit-booking rate.

Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs, and profits are recognized using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting. This method recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes in current and prior periods. Hence, the effect of the changes in future periods of contract performance is recognized as if the revised estimate had been the original estimate. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts in a period could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations for that period.

36

For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, favorable and unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were as follows:

----------------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- --- ---- --- --- - - ---

 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Gross favorable adjustments $ 309 $ 297 $ 304
Gross unfavorable adjustments (105 ) (73 ) (65 )
Net adjustments $ 204 $ 224 $ 239

For the year ended December 31, 2017, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were primarily related to risk retirement on the Legend class NSC program, Tripoli (LHA 7), Portland (LPD 27), and the delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), and other individually insignificant adjustments. During the same period, none of the unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were individually significant.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were primarily related to risk retirement on USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, Portland (LPD 27), the Legend class NSC program, and the Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyer program. During the same period, unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments included lower performance on the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72) and construction of Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), as well as other individually insignificant adjustments.

For the year ended December 31, 2015, favorable cumulative catch-up adjustments were primarily related to risk retirement on the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, the Legend class NSC program, and the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, including delivered ships, the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the America class (LHA 6) program and the RCOH of USS Theodore Roosevelt (CVN 71), and contract impacts of the Aon litigation settlement. During the same period, unfavorable cumulative catch-up adjustments included lower performance on Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), as well as other individually insignificant adjustments.

Cost Estimation - The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, program managers, and financial professionals. Factors we consider in estimating the work to be completed and ultimate contract recovery include the availability, productivity, and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, the availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the recoverability of any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts in a period could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations for that period, and, where such changes occur, separate disclosure is made of the nature, underlying conditions, and financial impact of the change. We update our contract cost estimates at least annually and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances. We review and assess our cost and revenue estimates for each significant contract on a quarterly basis.

We record a provision for the entire loss on a contract in the period the loss is determined when estimates of total costs to be incurred on the contract exceed estimates of total revenues to be earned. We offset loss provisions first against costs that are included in unbilled accounts receivable or inventoried costs, with any remaining amount reflected in other current liabilities.

Purchase Accounting, Goodwill, and Intangible Assets
Goodwill - Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of identifiable net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. The amount of our goodwill as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, was $1,217 million and $1,234 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a goodwill adjustment of $17 million in the Technical Solutions segment, primarily driven by the finalization of fair value calculations for certain assets and liabilities, as well as the net working capital adjustment, related to the acquisition of Camber.

Tests for Impairment - We perform impairment tests for goodwill as of November 30 of each year, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. When testing goodwill, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying

37

value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is determined to be less than the carrying value, we record a charge to operations.

We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market based valuation methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period. The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of capital. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against our market capitalization. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit.

November 30, 2017 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2017.

November 30, 2016 Impairment Test - In connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we tested goodwill for each of our four reporting units. As a result of our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded by more than 10% its corresponding carrying value as of November 30, 2016.

In conjunction with the realignment of our operations on December 1, 2016, we allocated goodwill among new and realigned reporting units based on the relative fair values of the reporting units being realigned. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2016, we performed a quantitative assessment of goodwill immediately after the realignment for each of the reporting units impacted by our realignment. Based on this quantitative assessment, no impairment charge was necessary as a result of the realignment.

November 30, 2015 and December 31, 2015 Impairment Tests - We performed our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 30, 2015, and, while the annual impairment test did not result in an impairment, considering the limited excess fair value of goodwill over its carrying value in our oil and gas reporting unit and the continued decline in oil prices and related industry activity levels, we performed an interim assessment of goodwill as of December 31, 2015. Our determination of fair value as of December 31, 2015, considered industry events that occurred in the period since our annual goodwill impairment test, as well as the updated long term outlook for this reporting unit. Those events included continued deterioration in the oil and gas markets, numerous industry-wide project deferrals, and capital spending cuts announced by industry leaders. The analysis concluded the fair value of this reporting unit was less than its carrying value as of December 31, 2015, and we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $16 million at our oil and gas reporting unit in our Technical Solutions segment in the fourth quarter of 2015. We determined that the estimated fair values of our remaining reporting units significantly exceeded their corresponding carrying values as of November 30, 2015.

May 31, 2015 Impairment Test - We continuously monitor industry events and changes in circumstances in the industries in which our reporting units conduct business. In consideration of the oil and gas reporting unit’s sensitivity to developments within its industry, the continued decline in crude oil prices, significant reductions in its customer capital spending plans, and project delays, we concluded an interim goodwill impairment test was necessary to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of our oil and gas reporting unit was still higher than its carrying value as of May 31, 2015. Our assessment considered the aforementioned changes to expectations that were considered as part of our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 30, 2014. As a result of our analysis, we recorded a $59 million goodwill impairment charge at our Oil and Gas reporting unit in our Technical Solutions segment in the second quarter of 2015.

Other Intangible Assets - We perform tests for impairment of amortizable intangible assets whenever events or circumstances suggest that amortizable intangible assets may be impaired.

December 31, 2015 Impairment Test - We performed an impairment test as of December 31, 2015, on the amortizable intangible assets that arose from the UPI acquisition, which reside in our oil and gas reporting unit within our Technical Solutions segment. The oil and gas asset group’s long-lived intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships and, to a lesser degree, trade name and developed technology. We performed our impairment test considering the latest market conditions and expectations, as well as lower anticipated revenue and profitability. Based on the nature of UPI's intangible assets, we performed the recoverability test at the reporting unit

38

level. In connection with the recoverability test, we reevaluated the remaining useful lives of the intangible assets and determined the total undiscounted pretax cash flows generated by the reporting unit over the remaining useful life of the primary asset, customer relationships. The carrying amount of the reporting unit was greater than the total undiscounted pretax cash flows, and, as a result, the intangible assets were written down by $27 million, charged against cost of sales and service revenues within income from operations at our oil and gas reporting unit in our Technical Solutions segment.

Litigation, Commitments and Contingencies

Overview - We are subject to a range of legal proceedings before various courts and administrative agencies and are periodically subject to government examinations, inquiries, and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires judgment and assessment based upon professional knowledge and the experience of management and our internal and external legal counsel. In accordance with our practices relating to accounting for contingencies, we record amounts as charges to earnings when we determine, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any such exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known.

Environmental Accruals - We are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. We record a liability for the costs of expected environmental remediation obligations when we determine that it is probable we will incur such costs and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. When a range of costs is possible and no amount within that range is a better estimate than another, we record the minimum amount of the range.

Factors that could result in changes to the assessment of probability, range of estimated costs, and environmental liability accruals include: modification of planned remedial actions, increase or decrease in the estimated time required to remediate, discovery of more extensive contamination than anticipated, results of efforts to involve other legally responsible parties, financial insolvency of other responsible parties, changes in laws and regulations or contractual obligations affecting remediation requirements, and improvements in remediation technology. Although we cannot predict whether new information gained as remediation projects progress will materially affect the accrued liability, we do not believe that future remediation expenditures will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Asset Retirement Obligations - We record all known asset retirement obligations for which the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal, asset decommissioning, and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts as of each of December 31, 2017 and 2016, were $19 million and consist primarily of obligations associated with the wind down of shipbuilding operations at our Avondale facility. See Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8.

We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations related to assets currently in use, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that were not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2017, due to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, the fair value of these obligations has not been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Environmental remediation and/or asset decommissioning of these facilities may be required when we cease to utilize these facilities. In addition, there may be conditional environmental asset retirement obligations that we have not yet discovered (for example, asbestos of which we have not become aware through normal business operations may exist in certain buildings), and these obligations have therefore not been included in our consolidated financial statements.

Litigation Accruals - Litigation accruals are recorded as charges to earnings when management has determined, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Based upon the information available, we believe that the resolution of any of these various legal proceedings will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Uncertain Tax Positions - Uncertain tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, based on the merits of the position, are recognized in the financial statements. We recognize the amount of tax benefit that is

39

greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. If a tax position does not meet the minimum statutory threshold to avoid payment of penalties, we recognize an expense for the amount of the penalty in the period the tax position is claimed or expected to be claimed in our tax return. Penalties and accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as a component of income tax expense. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8. Changes in accruals associated with uncertain tax positions are recorded in earnings in the period they are determined.

Retirement Related Benefit Plans

We recognize, on a plan-by-plan basis, the funded status of our retirement related benefit plans as an asset or liability on our balance sheet, with corresponding adjustments to after-tax accumulated other comprehensive income and deferred tax assets or liabilities. The funded status represents the difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. See Note 18: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8.

We calculate our retirement related benefit plan costs under both CAS and U.S. GAAP Financial Accounting Standards ("FAS"). The calculations under CAS and FAS require significant judgment. CAS prescribes the determination, allocation, and recovery of retirement related benefit plan costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services. FAS prescribes the methodology used to determine retirement related benefit plan expense or income, as well as the liability, for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for these costs and their calculation methodologies differ from FAS. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of retirement related benefit plan costs.

Retirement related benefit plan costs are allocated to our U.S. Government contracts as allowable costs based upon CAS. We recover our CAS costs through the pricing of products and services on U.S. Government contracts so that the CAS cost is recognized in segment product sales and service revenues and in the costs of those product sales and service revenues. In order to present our consolidated financial statements in accordance with FAS, we record the difference between our FAS expense and CAS cost (“FAS/CAS Adjustment”) as operating income (loss) within general and administrative expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, our CAS costs in excess of FAS expenses were $189 million, $145 million, and $104 million, respectively.

The minimum funding requirements for our qualified pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), which is primarily based on the year's expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. Effective January 1, 2011, we were subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 ("PPA"), which amended ERISA. Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven-year period as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of each year. PPA also introduced a variety of benefit restrictions that apply if a plan falls below certain funded percentages, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code. In funding our plans, we consider various factors, including the minimum funding requirements, maintaining the funded status needed to avoid potential benefit restrictions and other adverse consequences, maintaining minimum CAS funding requirements, and the current and anticipated funding levels of each plan.

During 2012, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act ("MAP-21") was enacted. MAP-21 included provisions for potential pension relief to plan sponsors in the form of higher interest rate assumptions that were used to determine minimum funding requirements. The relief derived from these provisions was to be phased out to lower levels over the next few years. The enactment of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act (“HATFA”) in 2014 and BBA 2015 successively provided for the continuation of pension relief and higher interest rate assumptions used to determine minimum funding requirements and extended the pension relief phase-out period. We consider the effects of pension relief legislation in the context of current year and future projected funded status levels in deciding the level of contributions to make to our plans each year.

Due to the differences in requirements and calculation methodologies between FAS and CAS, our FAS pension expense is not necessarily indicative of the funding requirements under PPA or the amounts we recover from the U.S. Government under CAS.

When PPA was enacted, it was anticipated that the amounts required to be funded would exceed government contractors' recovery of those costs under CAS. To remedy this cash flow misalignment, on December 27, 2011, the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards Board issued its final CAS Harmonization Rule ("Harmonization"). Harmonization

40

was intended to improve the alignment of the pension cost recovered through contract pricing under CAS and the pension funding requirements under the PPA. Harmonization became effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after February 27, 2012. Under Harmonization, only contracts entered into before the effective date qualifed for an equitable adjustment. Price proposals for CAS covered contracts awarded on or after the effective date of February 27, 2012, reflected the effects of the rule. Harmonization affected pension costs on contracts over a phase-in period that ended in 2017. Our CAS pension cost recoveries are expected to remain unaffected by the pension relief provisions noted above because of the method permitted under Harmonization we use to determine the CAS interest rate, which is a current market rate.

Assumptions - We account for our retirement related benefit plans on the accrual basis under FAS. The measurements of obligations, costs, assets, and liabilities require significant judgment. We annually review our assumptions, which are set at each year end and are generally not changed during the following year unless there is a major plan event, such as an amendment, curtailment, or settlement that would trigger a remeasurement. The key assumptions in these measurements are the interest rate used to discount future benefit payments and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.

Discount Rate - The assumed discount rate under FAS is used to determine the retirement related benefit plan obligations and expense, and represents the hypothetical rate at which the plans' benefit obligations could be effectively settled at the measurement date. Consequently, the discount rate can be volatile from year to year. The discount rate assumption is determined for each plan by constructing a hypothetical portfolio of high quality bonds with cash flows that match the estimated outflows for future benefit payments to determine a single equivalent discount rate. Benefit payments are not only contingent on the terms of a plan, but also on the underlying participant demographics, including current age and assumed mortality. We use only bonds that are denominated in U.S. Dollars, are rated Aa or better by nationally recognized statistical rating agencies, have a minimum outstanding issue of $100 million as of the measurement date, and are not callable, convertible, or index-linked.

Taking into consideration the factors noted above, our weighted average discount rate for pensions was 3.82% and 4.47% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our weighted average discount rate for other postretirement benefits was 3.85% and 4.38% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Expected Long-Term Rate of Return - The expected long-term rate of return on assets is used to calculate net periodic expense, and is based on such factors as historical returns, targeted asset allocations, investment policy, duration, expected future long-term performance of individual asset classes, interest rates, inflation, portfolio volatility, investment management and administrative fees, and risk management strategies. Historical plan asset performance alone has inherent limitations in predicting future returns. While studies are helpful in understanding past and current trends and performance, the assumption is based more on long-term prospective views to avoid short-term market influences. Unless plan assets and benefit obligations are subject to remeasurement during the year, the expected return on pension assets is based on the fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. We used a 7.25% expected long-term rate of return assumption to record 2017 pension expense, and we anticipate retaining that assumption throughout 2018.

Mortality - Mortality assumptions are used to determine the retirement related benefit obligations and expense, and represent the likelihood and duration of benefit payments to plan participants based on historical experience and projected longevity. We periodically update our mortality assumptions as circumstances warrant.

Differences arising from actual experience or changes in assumptions might materially affect retirement related benefit plan obligations and the funded status. Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between assumptions and actual experience or changes in assumptions are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income. This unrecognized amount is amortized as a component of net expense to the extent it exceeds 10% of the greater of the plan's benefit obligation or plan assets. The amortization period for actuarial gains and losses is the estimated average remaining service life of the plan participants. In 2017, the actual return on assets was approximately 17.0%, which was greater than the expected return assumption of 7.25%. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the weighted average discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans decreased by 65 and 53 basis points, respectively. These differences in asset returns, updated mortality assumptions, and discount rates resulted in actuarial gains of $473 million and $68 million and an actuarial loss of $625 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017.

41

An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return assumptions would have had the following approximate impacts on pensions:

---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------------------------- ---- - ---

($ in millions) Increase (Decrease) in 2018 Expense Increase (Decrease) in December 31, 2017 Obligations
25 basis point decrease in discount rate $ 23 $ 261
25 basis point increase in discount rate (22 ) (246 )
25 basis point decrease in expected return on assets 15
25 basis point increase in expected return on assets (15 )

Assuming a 7.25% expected return on asset assumption, a $50 million pension contribution is generally expected to favorably impact the current year expected return on assets by approximately $1 million, depending on the timing of the contribution.

Sensitivities to assumptions are not necessarily linear and are specific to the time periods noted.

CAS Cost - In addition to providing the methodology for calculating retirement related benefit plan costs, CAS also prescribes the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for such costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. The key drivers of CAS pension cost include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans. A plan’s CAS pension cost can only be allocated until the plan is fully funded as defined under the CAS requirements.

Through 2013, CAS required the pension interest rate to be consistent with the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, which changed infrequently given its long-term nature. As a result, short-term changes in bond yields or other interest rates generally did not impact CAS costs. Under Harmonization the liability used to determine CAS cost is developed by comparing the liability under the previous CAS methodology and assumptions to a liability based on a discount rate derived from yields on high quality corporate bonds. Since Harmonization became fully phased in during 2017, the greater of the two liabilities is used for CAS cost calculations. Generally, liabilities based on a discount rate of high quality corporate bonds will be higher than liabilities calculated prior to Harmonization. Prior to the full phasing in of Harmonization the use of a blend of the pre and post Harmonization liabilities was required.

Other FAS and CAS Pension Considerations - A key driver of the difference between FAS expense and CAS cost (and consequently the FAS/CAS Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for actuarial gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experiences differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Under FAS, our net actuarial gains and losses exceeding the 10% corridor are amortized over the estimated average remaining service life of the plan participants. Under CAS Harmonization, the amortization period changed from 15 to 10 years for actuarial gains and losses beginning in 2013. Both FAS and CAS use a "market-related value" of plan assets approach to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. Under CAS actual asset gains and losses are systematically smoothed over five years, subject to certain limitations. For FAS, we do not use this smoothing method, and instead use fair value in determining our FAS expense. Accordingly, FAS expense generally reflects recent asset gains and losses sooner than CAS.

Additionally, CAS cost is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded as defined under CAS. If a plan becomes or ceases to be fully funded due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS cost will change accordingly.

The FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2017 and 2016 was a net benefit of $189 million and $145 million, respectively. The favorable change from 2016 to 2017 was primarily driven by the continued phase-in of Harmonization. The FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2015 was a net benefit of $104 million. The favorable change from 2015 to 2016 was driven by the continued phase-in of Harmonization. Our projected 2018 FAS/CAS Adjustment is discussed in Consolidated Operating Results - Operating Income.

Retirement Plan Assets - Retirement plan assets are stated at fair value. Investments in equity securities (common and preferred) are valued at the last reported sales price when an active market exists. Investments in fixed-income securities are generally valued based on market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities that are generally recognized by institutional traders. Investments in hedge funds, real estate

42

investment funds, private partnerships, collective trust funds, and commingled funds are generally valued at their Net Asset Values ("NAV") or equivalent, which are based on the current fair value of the fund's underlying assets.

Management reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements, and additional pricing information to evaluate the NAV or its equivalent. For the limited group of investments for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. See Note 18: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in Item 8.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income - Changes in assumptions and changes to plan assets and benefit obligations due to differences between actuarial assumptions and actual results are reported as actuarial gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income along with unrecognized prior service costs arising from plan amendments. As disclosed in Note 18: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8, net pre-tax unrecognized actuarial losses as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $1,459 million and $1,583 million, respectively. The decrease in these actuarial losses in 2017 was primarily driven by actual asset returns which were $473 million above expected returns, $93 million of amortization of previously unrecognized actuarial losses, $68 million actuarial gain from updated mortality assumptions, and a $625 million actuarial loss due to the decrease in the discount rates used to determine benefit obligations.

Net pre-tax unrecognized prior service costs (credits) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $47 million and $(18) million, respectively. These net deferred costs (credits) primarily originated from plan amendments, including those resulting from collective bargaining agreements. The change in unrecognized prior service costs (credits) in 2017 primarily resulted from amendments within a collective bargaining agreement, offset by the amortization of previously accumulated prior service costs (credits).

Workers' Compensation

Our operations are subject to federal and state workers' compensation laws. We maintain self-insured workers' compensation plans and participate in federally administered second injury workers' compensation funds. We estimate the liability for such claims and funding requirements on a discounted basis utilizing actuarial methods based on various assumptions, which include our historical loss experience and projected loss development factors. We periodically, and at least annually, update our assumptions based on an actuarial analysis. Related self-insurance accruals include the liability for reported claims and an estimated accrual for claims incurred but not reported. Our workers' compensation liability was discounted at 2.35% and 2.54% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, based on future payment streams and a risk-free rate. We estimate a 100 basis points increase or decrease in the discount rate would change our workers' compensation liability by $(48) million and $58 million, respectively. The workers' compensation benefit obligation on an undiscounted basis was $925 million and $835 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Accounting Standards Updates

See Note 3: Accounting Standards Updates in Item 8 for further information.

43

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS

Selected financial highlights are presented in the following table:

--------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- ------- ----- ------- ------- --- - --- --- -- ---- -- --- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 7,441 $ 7,068 $ 7,020 $ 373 5 % $ 48 1 %
Cost of product sales and service revenues 6,018 5,608 5,517 410 7 % 91 2 %
Income (loss) from operating investments, net 12 6 10 6 100 % (4 ) (40 )%
Other income and gains — 15 — (15 ) (100 )% 15 — %
General and administrative expenses 570 623 669 (53 ) (9 )% (46 ) (7 )%
Goodwill impairment — — 75 — — % (75 ) (100 )%
Operating income (loss) 865 858 769 7 1 % 89 12 %
Interest expense 94 74 137 20 27 % (63 ) (46 )%
Federal and foreign income taxes 293 211 228 82 39 % (17 ) (7 )%
Net earnings (loss) $ 479 $ 573 $ 404 $ (94 ) (16 )% $ 169 42 %

Operating Performance Assessment and Reporting

We manage and assess the performance of our business based on our performance on individual contracts and programs using the financial measures referred to below, with consideration given to the Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments referred to in this section. Our portfolio of long-term contracts is largely flexibly-priced. Therefore, sales tend to fluctuate in concert with costs across our large portfolio of active contracts, with operating income being a critical measure of operating performance. Under FAR rules that govern our business with the U.S. Government, most types of costs are allowable, and we do not focus on individual cost groupings, such as cost of sales or general and administrative expenses, as much as we do on total contract costs, which are a key factor in determining contract operating income. As a result, in evaluating our operating performance, we look primarily at changes in sales and service revenues, as well as operating income, including the effects of significant changes in operating income as a result of changes in contract estimates and the use of the cumulative catch-up method of accounting in accordance with GAAP. This approach is consistent with the long-term life cycle of our contracts, as management assesses the bidding of each contract by focusing on net sales and operating profit and monitors performance in a similar manner through contract completion. Consequently, our discussion of business segment performance focuses on net sales and operating profit, consistent with our approach for managing our business.

Cost of sales for both product sales and service revenues consists of materials, labor, and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs for overhead. We manage the type and amount of costs at the contract level, which is the basis for estimating our total costs at completion of our contracts. Unusual fluctuations in operating performance driven by changes in a specific cost element across multiple contracts are described in our analysis.

Sales and Service Revenues

Sales and service revenues were comprised as follows:

-------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- ------- ----- ------- ------- --- - -- -- -- - - --- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Product sales $ 5,573 $ 5,631 $ 5,665 $ (58 ) (1 )% $ (34 ) (1 )%
Service revenues 1,868 1,437 1,355 431 30 % 82 6 %
Sales and service revenues $ 7,441 $ 7,068 $ 7,020 $ 373 5 % $ 48 1 %

2017 - Product sales in 2017 decreased $58 million, or 1%, from 2016. Product sales at our Ingalls segment decreased $10 million in 2017, primarily as a result of lower volumes in surface combatants, partially offset by higher volumes in amphibious assault ships. Newport News product sales increased $20 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in aircraft carriers, partially offset by lower volumes in submarines. Technical Solutions

44

product sales decreased $68 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in 2016 from the resolution of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

Service revenues in 2017 increased $431 million, or 30%, from 2016. Service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $41 million in 2017, as a result of higher volumes in surface combatants services. Service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $57 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in naval nuclear support services and submarines services, partially offset by lower volumes in aircraft carriers services. Service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $333 million in 2017, primarily as a result of higher volumes in integrated missions solutions services following the December 2016 acquisition of Camber and higher volumes in fleet support and oil and gas services.

2016 - Product sales in 2016 decreased $34 million, or 1%, from 2015. Product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $138 million in 2016, primarily as a result of higher volumes in surface combatants, partially offset by lower volumes in the Legend class NSC program. Newport News product sales decreased $275 million in 2016, primarily as a result of lower volumes in aircraft carriers. Technical Solutions product sales increased $103 million in 2016, primarily as a result of higher volumes in nuclear and environmental products.

Service revenues in 2016 increased $82 million, or 6%, from 2015. Service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $63 million in 2016, as a result of higher volumes in surface combatants and amphibious assault ships services. Service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $65 million in 2016, primarily as a result of higher volumes in submarines and naval nuclear support services. Service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment decreased $46 million in 2016, primarily due to lower volumes in nuclear and environmental, fleet support, and oil and gas services, partially offset by higher volumes in integrated missions solutions services following the acquisition of Camber.

Cost of Sales and Service Revenues

Cost of product sales, cost of service revenues, income from operating investments, net, and general and administrative expenses were as follows:

--------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- - --- - - ---- -- --- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Cost of product sales $ 4,444 $ 4,380 $ 4,319 $ 64 1 % $ 61 1 %
% of product sales 79.7 % 77.8 % 76.2 % — —
Cost of service revenues 1,574 1,228 1,198 346 28 % 30 3 %
% of service revenues 84.3 % 85.5 % 88.4 % — —
Income (loss) from operating investments, net 12 6 10 6 100 % (4 ) (40 )%
Other income and gains — 15 — (15 ) (100 )% 15 — %
General and administrative expenses 570 623 669 (53 ) (9 )% (46 ) (7 )%
% of total sales and service revenues 7.7 % 8.8 % 9.5 % — —
Goodwill impairment — — 75 — — % (75 ) (100 )%
Cost of sales and service revenues $ 6,576 $ 6,210 $ 6,251 $ 366 6 % $ (41 ) (1 )%

Cost of Product Sales

2017 - Cost of product sales in 2017 increased $64 million, or 1%, compared to 2016. Cost of product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $64 million in 2017, primarily as a result of lower risk retirement in the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, following delivery of USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) in 2016, as well as the volume changes described above, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7). Cost of product sales at our Newport News segment increased $56 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), partially offset by lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program. Cost of product sales at our Technical Solutions segment decreased $56 million in 2017, primarily due to the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract, partially offset by the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017. Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales increased from 77.8% in 2016 to 79.7% in 2017,

45

primarily driven by lower risk retirement in the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, following delivery of USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) in 2016, the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, as well as the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72).

2016 - Cost of product sales in 2016 increased $61 million, or 1%, compared to 2015. Cost of product sales at our Ingalls segment increased $194 million in 2016, primarily as a result of the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation and the volume changes described above, partially offset by higher risk retirement in the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program. Cost of product sales at our Newport News segment decreased $220 million in 2016, primarily as a result of the volume changes described above, partially offset by lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program. Cost of product sales at our Technical Solutions segment increased $87 million in 2016, primarily due to the higher volumes described above. Cost of product sales as a percentage of product sales increased from 76.2% in 2015 to 77.8% in 2016, primarily driven by the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation and lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, partially offset by higher risk retirement in the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program.

Cost of Service Revenues

2017 - Cost of service revenues in 2017 increased $346 million, or 28%, compared to 2016. Cost of service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $23 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $30 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment increased $293 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the higher volumes described above. Cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues declined from 85.5% in 2016 to 84.3% in 2017, primarily driven by the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65), improved performance in oil and gas services, and year-to-year variances in contract mix.

2016 - Cost of service revenues in 2016 increased $30 million, or 3%, compared to 2015. Cost of service revenues at our Ingalls segment increased $66 million in 2016, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Newport News segment increased $32 million in 2016, primarily as a result of the higher sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues at our Technical Solutions segment decreased $68 million in 2016, as a result of the intangible asset impairment charge in 2015 and lower sales volumes described above. Cost of service revenues as a percentage of service revenues decreased from 88.4% in 2015 to 85.5% in 2016, primarily driven by the intangible asset impairment charge in 2015, improved performance in fleet support services in 2016, and year-to-year variances in contract mix.

Income (Loss) from Operating Investments, Net

The activities of our operating investments are closely aligned with the operations of the segments holding the investments. We therefore record income related to earnings from equity method investments in our operating income.

2017 - Income from operating investments, net increased $6 million, or 100%, to $12 million in 2017 from $6 million in 2016. The increase resulted from higher equity income from our Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC investment.

2016 - Income from operating investments, net decreased $4 million, or 40%, to $6 million in 2016 from $10 million in 2015. The decrease resulted from lower equity income from our Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC investment.

Other Income and Gains

2017 - Other income and gains decreased $15 million in 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease resulted from state and local government grants at our Newport News segment in 2016.

46

General and Administrative Expenses

In accordance with industry practice and the regulations that govern the cost accounting requirements for government contracts, most general and administrative expenses are considered allowable and allocable costs on government contracts. These costs are allocated to contracts in progress on a systematic basis, and contract performance factors include this cost component as an element of cost.

2017 - General and administrative expenses in 2017 decreased $53 million, or 9%, compared to 2016. This decrease was primarily driven by favorable changes in the FAS/CAS Adjustment.

2016 - General and administrative expenses in 2016 decreased $46 million, or 7%, compared to 2015. This decrease was primarily driven by favorable changes in the FAS/CAS Adjustment and lower current state tax expense.

Impairment of Goodwill

As discussed above under Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments, we perform impairment tests for goodwill as of November 30 each year, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. We record a charge to operations when we determine that an impairment has occurred.

We recorded goodwill impairment charges in 2015 of $75 million in our Technical Solutions segment. See Note 12: Goodwill and Other Purchased Intangible Assets in Item 8.

Operating Income

We consider operating income to be an important measure for evaluating our operating performance, and, as is typical in the industry, we define operating income as revenues less the related cost of producing the revenues and general and administrative expenses.

We internally manage our operations by reference to "segment operating income," which is defined as operating income before the FAS/CAS Adjustment and non-current state income taxes, neither of which affects segment performance. Segment operating income is not a recognized measure under GAAP.  When analyzing our operating performance, investors should use segment operating income in addition to, and not as an alternative for, operating income or any other performance measure presented in accordance with GAAP. It is a measure we use to evaluate our core operating performance.  We believe segment operating income reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. We believe the measure is used by investors and is a useful indicator to measure our performance. Because not all companies use identical calculations, our presentation of segment operating income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

The following table reconciles segment operating income to operating income:

------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- --- -------------- --- ------- - ------- --- ------- ------- --- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Segment operating income (loss) $ 688 $ 715 $ 667 $ (27 ) (4 )% $ 48 7 %
FAS/CAS Adjustment 189 145 104 44 30 % 41 39 %
Non-current state income taxes (12 ) (2 ) (2 ) (10 ) (500 )% — — %
Operating income (loss) $ 865 $ 858 $ 769 $ 7 1 % $ 89 12 %

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Segment operating income in 2017 was $688 million, compared to $715 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower risk retirement on the delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), lower volume and risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program and Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, favorable changes in overhead costs in 2016, the receipt in 2016 of a local government incentive grant, and the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and Portland (LPD 27), the resolution of

47

outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), and improved performance in oil and gas services.

2016 - Segment operating income in 2016 was $715 million, compared to $667 million in 2015. The increase was primarily due to the goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges in the Technical Solutions segment in 2015, higher risk retirement on the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, favorable changes in overhead cost, and the receipt of a local government incentive grant, partially offset by the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation, lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and lower volume and lower risk retirement on the execution contract for the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72).

Activity within each segment is discussed under Segment Operating Results below.

FAS/CAS Adjustment

The FAS/CAS Adjustment represents the difference between our pension and postretirement plan expense under FAS and under CAS.

------------------ ---------------------- ---- -------------- --- -------------- ---- ------- ------- ---- ------- ------- --- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
FAS expense $ (172 ) $ (161 ) $ (168 ) $ (11 ) (7 )% $ 7 4 %
CAS cost 361 306 272 55 18 % 34 13 %
FAS/CAS Adjustment $ 189 $ 145 $ 104 $ 44 30 % $ 41 39 %

2017 - The FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2017 was a net benefit of $189 million, compared to a net benefit of $145 million in 2016. The favorable change was primarily driven by the continued phase-in of Harmonization.

2016 - The FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2016 was a net benefit of $145 million, compared to a net benefit of $104 million in 2015. The favorable change was primarily driven by the continued phase-in of Harmonization.

We expect the FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2018 to be a net benefit of approximately $369 million ($91 million FAS and $460 million CAS), primarily driven by the more immediate recognition of the 2017 asset gains under FAS and the impacts of lower discount and interest rates and other experience gains and losses and assumption changes (e.g., mortality). The expected FAS/CAS Adjustment is subject to change during 2018, when we remeasure our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for CAS with updated census data and other items later in the year.

Non-current State Income Taxes

Non-current state income taxes include deferred state income taxes, which reflect the change in deferred state tax assets and liabilities, and the tax expense or benefit associated with changes in state uncertain tax positions in the relevant period. These amounts are recorded within operating income. Current period state income tax expense is charged to contract costs and included in cost of sales and service revenues in segment operating income.

2017 - Non-current state income tax expense in 2017 was $12 million, compared to $2 million in 2016. Deferred state income tax expense in 2017 was $12 million, compared to deferred state income tax expense of $8 million in 2016. The increase in deferred state income tax expense was primarily attributable to changes in pension related adjustments. In 2017, the decrease in state uncertain tax positions resulted in a net tax benefit of less than $1 million, compared to a tax benefit of $6 million in 2016. In 2016, a state uncertain tax position was settled through agreement with the applicable taxing authority and was partially offset by the recognition of a non-current state tax expense in a different jurisdiction impacted by the results of the settlement. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

2016 - Non-current state income tax expense remained constant at $2 million in 2016 and 2015. Deferred state income tax expense in 2016 was $8 million as compared to deferred state income tax expense of less than $1 million in 2015. The increase in deferred state income tax expense was primarily attributable to changes in the timing of contract taxable income and pension related adjustments. In 2016, the decrease in state uncertain tax positions resulted in a net tax benefit of $6 million, as compared to $2 million of tax expense in 2015. The state uncertain tax position was settled through agreement with the applicable taxing authority and was partially offset by

48

the recognition of a non-current state tax expense in a different jurisdiction impacted by the results of the settlement. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

Interest Expense

2017 - Interest expense in 2017 was $94 million, compared to $74 million in 2016. The increase was primarily a result of a loss on the early extinguishment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2017. See Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

2016 - Interest expense in 2016 was $74 million, compared to $137 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily a result of refinancing $600 million principal amount of 7.125% senior notes with 5.000% senior notes and repayment in 2015 of credit facility term loans, as well as the loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2015. See Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

Federal and Foreign Income Taxes

2017 - Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 38.0% in 2017, compared to 26.9% in 2016. The increase in our effective tax rate for 2017 was primarily attributable to the revaluation of net deferred tax assets resulting from the decrease in the federal tax rate included in the Tax Act and a decrease in the domestic manufacturing deduction primarily resulting from an increase in the Company’s 2018 expected discretionary pre-tax pension contributions. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

2016 - Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 26.9% in 2016, compared to 36.1% in 2015. The decrease in our effective tax rate for 2016 was primarily attributable to the adoption of ASU 2016-09, which reduced income tax expense by the income tax benefits resulting from stock award settlement activity, a re-measurement of uncertain tax positions that resulted in a decrease in cumulative unrecognized tax benefits, and the goodwill impairment that was recorded in 2015. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

In December 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Act, which made significant changes to U.S. federal income tax law, including a reduction of the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% and changes or limitations to certain deductions. As a result of the corporate income tax reduction effective January 1, 2018, we revalued our net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2017. This reduced our net deferred tax assets by $56 million, which was recorded as additional income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. In future periods, we expect that Tax Act changes will positively impact our after-tax earnings primarily due to the lower corporate income tax rate.

SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS

Basis of Presentation

We are aligned into three reportable segments: Ingalls, Newport News, and Technical Solutions. We established the Technical Solutions segment in the fourth quarter of 2016 in conjunction with our acquisition of Camber and realignment of management oversight of operations to enhance strategic and operational alignment among our services businesses. As a result of this realignment, our non-nuclear fleet support and nuclear and environmental services were transferred from our Newport News segment to our Technical Solutions segment. Our oil and gas services were transferred from our Other segment to our Technical Solutions segment, and our Other segment was dissolved.

In December 2016, we completed the acquisition of Camber, and, in 2015, we completed the acquisition of USC. We report the post-acquisition results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of Camber and USC as part of our Technical Solutions segment.

49

Segment operating results are presented in the following table:

----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- - ---- -- -- --- -- --- - --- --

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and Service Revenues
Ingalls $ 2,420 $ 2,389 $ 2,188 $ 31 1 % $ 201 9 %
Newport News 4,164 4,089 4,298 75 2 % (209 ) (5 )%
Technical Solutions 952 691 616 261 38 % 75 12 %
Intersegment eliminations (95 ) (101 ) (82 ) 6 6 % (19 ) (23 )%
Sales and service revenues $ 7,441 $ 7,068 $ 7,020 $ 373 5 % $ 48 1 %
Operating Income (Loss)
Ingalls $ 313 $ 321 $ 379 $ (8 ) (2 )% $ (58 ) (15 )%
Newport News 354 386 401 (32 ) (8 )% (15 ) (4 )%
Technical Solutions 21 8 (113 ) 13 163 % 121 107 %
Segment operating income (loss) 688 715 667 (27 ) (4 )% 48 7 %
Non-segment factors affecting operating income (loss)
FAS/CAS Adjustment 189 145 104 44 30 % 41 39 %
Non-current state income taxes (12 ) (2 ) (2 ) (10 ) (500 )% — — %
Operating income (loss) $ 865 $ 858 $ 769 $ 7 1 % $ 89 12 %

KEY SEGMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES

Sales and Service Revenues

Period-to-period revenues reflect performance under new and ongoing contracts. Changes in sales and service revenues are typically expressed in terms of volume. Unless otherwise described, volume generally refers to increases (or decreases) in reported revenues due to varying production activity levels, delivery rates, or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes will typically carry a corresponding income change based on the margin rate for a particular contract.

Segment Operating Income

Segment operating income reflects the aggregate performance results of contracts within a segment. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not directly associated with contract performance, such as the FAS/CAS Adjustment and non-current state income taxes. Changes in segment operating income are typically expressed in terms of volume, as discussed above, or performance. Performance refers to changes in contract margin rates. These changes typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to EAC that reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance on that contract. Operating income changes are accounted for on a cumulative to date basis at the time an EAC change is recorded. Segment operating income may also be affected by, among other things, contract performance, the effects of workforce stoppages, the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes, resolution of disputed items with the customer, recovery of insurance proceeds, and other discrete events. At the completion of a long-term contract, any originally estimated costs not incurred or reserves not fully utilized, such as warranty reserves, could also impact contract earnings. Where such items have occurred and the effects are material, a separate description is provided.

Ingalls

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ---- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- -- --- - - --- -- --- - -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 2,420 $ 2,389 $ 2,188 $ 31 1 % $ 201 9 %
Segment operating income (loss) 313 321 379 (8 ) (2 )% (58 ) (15 )%
As a percentage of segment sales 12.9 % 13.4 % 17.3 %

50

Sales and Service Revenues

2017 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $31 million, or 1%, in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by higher revenues in amphibious assault ships, partially offset by lower revenues in surface combatants and the Legend class NSC program. Amphibious assault ships revenues increased as a result of higher volumes on Bougainville (LHA 8) and Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), partially offset by lower volume on the delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) and Portland (LPD 27). Surface combatants revenues decreased due to lower volumes on the delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), Ralph Johnson (DDG 114), Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), Paul Ignatius (DDG 117), and Delbert D. Black (DDG 119), partially offset by higher volumes on Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125), and the extended selected restricted availability contract for USS Ramage (DDG 61). Revenues on the Legend class NSC program decreased due to lower volume on the delivered USCGC Munro (NSC 6), partially offset by higher volumes on Stone (NSC 9) and Midgett (NSC 8).

2016 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $201 million, or 9%, in 2016 compared to 2015, primarily driven by higher revenues in surface combatants and amphibious assault ships, partially offset by lower revenues in the Legend class NSC program. Surface combatants revenues increased due to higher volumes on Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), and planning yard services, partially offset by lower volume on John Finn (DDG 113) in connection with its delivery in 2016. The increase in amphibious assault ships revenues was due to higher volumes on Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), Tripoli (LHA 7), and Bougainville (LHA 8), partially offset by lower volumes on Portland (LPD 27) and USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) following its delivery in 2016. Revenues on the Legend class NSC program decreased due to delivery of USCGC James (NSC 5) in 2015 and lower volume on Munro (NSC 6), partially offset by higher volume on Midgett (NSC 8).

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Ingalls operating income in 2017 was $313 million, compared to income of $321 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower risk retirement on the delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) and Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and Portland (LPD 27).

2016 - Ingalls operating income in 2016 was $321 million, compared to income of $379 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation and lower risk retirement on the America class (LHA 6) program, partially offset by higher risk retirement on USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), Portland (LPD 27), and Ralph Johnson (DDG 114).

Newport News

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- --- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- -- --- - - -- -- ---- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 4,164 $ 4,089 $ 4,298 $ 75 2 % $ (209 ) (5 )%
Segment operating income (loss) 354 386 401 (32 ) (8 )% (15 ) (4 )%
As a percentage of segment sales 8.5 % 9.4 % 9.3 %

Sales and Service Revenues

2017 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $75 million, or 2%, in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by higher revenues in aircraft carriers and naval nuclear support services, partially offset by lower revenues in submarines. Aircraft carriers revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes on the advance planning and execution contract for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73), the construction contract for John F. Kennedy (CVN 79), and the advance planning contract for Enterprise (CVN 80), partially offset by lower volumes on the execution contract for the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), the construction contract for the delivered USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), and the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65). Naval nuclear support services revenues increased primarily as a result of higher volumes in submarine support and facility maintenance services, partially offset by lower volumes in aircraft carrier support services. Submarines revenues related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program decreased due to lower volumes on Block III boats, partially offset by higher volumes on Block IV boats.

2016 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, decreased $209 million, or 5%, in 2016 compared to 2015, primarily driven by lower revenues in aircraft carriers. Aircraft carriers revenues decreased primarily as a

51

result of lower volumes on USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78) and the execution contract for the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), partially offset by higher volumes on John F. Kennedy (CVN 79) and the advance planning contract for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73). Submarines revenues related to the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program were relatively constant in 2016 compared to 2015 due to higher volumes on Block IV boats and USS John Warner (SSN 785) post-shakedown availability services, offset by lower volumes on Block III boats.

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Newport News operating income in 2017 was $354 million, compared to income of $386 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower volume and risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, favorable changes in overhead costs in 2016, and the receipt in 2016 of a local government incentive grant, partially offset by the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72).

2016 - Newport News operating income in 2016 was $386 million, compared to income of $401 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, lower volume and lower risk retirement on the execution contract for the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72) and lower volume on USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), partially offset by favorable changes in overhead cost, and higher volumes on John F. Kennedy (CVN 79) and the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73), as well as the receipt of a local government incentive grant.

Technical Solutions

-------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- --- -------------- --- ------- -- ------- --- ------- ------- --- --- -- - --- - -- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 952 $ 691 $ 616 $ 261 38 % $ 75 12 %
Segment operating income (loss) 21 8 (113 ) 13 163 % 121 107 %
As a percentage of segment sales 2.2 % 1.2 % (18.3 )%

Sales and Service Revenues

2017 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased $261 million, or 38%, compared to 2016, primarily due to higher volume in integrated missions solutions services following the December 2016 acquisition of Camber and higher volumes in fleet support and oil and gas services, partially offset by lower nuclear and environmental volumes due to the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

2016 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased $75 million, or 12%, compared to 2015, primarily due to higher nuclear and environmental and fleet support revenues, as well as the acquisition of Camber, partially offset by lower revenues in oil and gas services. Nuclear and environmental revenues increased due to higher volumes and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on a commercial contract, partially offset by lower volumes associated with environmental remediation programs.

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2017, was $21 million, compared to operating income of $8 million in 2016. The increase was primarily due to improved performance in oil and gas services and higher volume in integrated missions solutions services following the December 2016 acquisition of Camber, partially offset by the establishment of an allowance for accounts receivable on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract in 2017 and the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

2016 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2016, was $8 million, compared to an operating loss of $113 million in 2015. The increase was primarily due to goodwill and

52

intangible asset impairment charges in 2015 and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

BACKLOG

Total backlog as of December 31, 2017, was approximately $21 billion. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity orders. For contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer.

The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016:

------------------- ----------------- ------ ----------------- ----- ------- ----- ------ -------- ------ ------- ----- ------ ------ - ----- - ------

 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
 Total Total
($ in millions) Funded Unfunded Backlog Funded Unfunded Backlog
Ingalls $ 5,920 $ 2,071 $ 7,991 $ 6,033 $ 692 $ 6,725
Newport News 6,976 5,608 12,584 5,799 7,127 12,926
Technical Solutions 478 314 792 712 372 1,084
Total backlog $ 13,374 $ 7,993 $ 21,367 $ 12,544 $ 8,191 $ 20,735

As a result of integration efforts following the acquisition of Camber, the Company corrected the Technical Solutions segment's total backlog and unfunded backlog as of December 31, 2016, reducing the balances by $289 million.

We expect approximately 31% of the $21 billion total backlog as of December 31, 2017, to be converted into sales in 2018. U.S. Government orders comprised substantially all of the backlog as of December 31, 2017 and 2016.

Awards

2017 - The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2017, was approximately $8.1 billion. Significant new awards during this period included the detailed design and construction contract for Bougainville (LHA 8) and the execution contract for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73).

2016 - The value of new contract awards during the year ended December 31, 2016, was approximately $5.2 billion. Significant new awards during this period included contracts for the detail design and construction of Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), the construction of NSC 9 (unnamed), planning, advanced engineering, and procurement of long-lead material for Bougainville (LHA 8), and additional advance planning for the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73).

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We endeavor to ensure the most efficient conversion of operating results into cash for deployment in operating our businesses, implementing our business strategy, and maximizing stockholder value. We use various financial measures to assist in capital deployment decision making, including net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow. We believe these measures are useful to investors in assessing our financial performance.

53

The following table summarizes key components of cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities:

-------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- --- -------------- --- ------- - ------- ---- ------- ------- --- - ---- --- -- ---- -- --- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Net earnings (loss) $ 479 $ 573 $ 404 $ (94 ) (16 )% $ 169 42 %
Depreciation and amortization 211 191 188 20 10 % 3 2 %
Provision for doubtful accounts 10 — — 10 — % — — %
Stock-based compensation 34 36 43 (2 ) (6 )% (7 ) (16 )%
Deferred income taxes 184 85 (15 ) 99 116 % 100 667 %
Retiree benefit funding less than (in excess of) expense (163 ) (44 ) 32 (119 ) (270 )% (76 ) (238 )%
Insurance proceeds for investing purposes — — (21 ) — — % 21 100 %
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets — — 102 — — % (102 ) (100 )%
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 22 — 44 22 — % (44 ) (100 )%
Trade working capital decrease (increase) 37 (19 ) 84 56 295 % (103 ) (123 )%
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 814 $ 822 $ 861 $ (8 ) (1 )% $ (39 ) (5 )%

Cash Flows

We discuss below our major operating, investing, and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, as classified in our consolidated statements of cash flows.

Operating Activities

2017 - Cash provided by operating activities was $814 million in 2017, compared to $822 million in 2016. The decrease of $8 million in operating cash flow was primarily due to increased funding of retiree benefit plans and the change in deferred income taxes, partially offset by a change in trade working capital. The change in trade working capital was primarily driven by the timing of payments of accounts payable.

We expect cash generated from operations in 2018, in combination with our current cash and cash equivalents, as well as existing credit facilities, to be sufficient to service debt and retiree benefit plans, meet contractual obligations, and finance capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months.

2016 - Cash provided by operating activities was $822 million in 2016, compared to $861 million in 2015. The decrease of $39 million in operating cash flow was primarily due to higher funding of retiree benefit plans, a change in trade working capital, and the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation. The change in trade working capital was primarily driven by accounts receivable and accounts payable due to timing of receipts and payments, respectively.

Investing Activities

2017 - Cash used in investing activities was $349 million in 2017, a decrease of $304 million from 2016. The change in investing cash flow was driven by the acquisition of Camber in 2016, partially offset by higher capital expenditures in 2017.

For 2018, we expect our capital expenditures for maintenance and sustainment to be approximately 2.0% to 2.5% of annual revenues and our discretionary capital expenditures to be approximately 3.0% to 3.5% of annual revenues.

2016 - Cash used in investing activities was $653 million in 2016, an increase of $512 million from 2015. The change in investing cash flow was driven by the acquisition of Camber in 2016, higher capital expenditures in 2016, the sale of the Gulfport Composite Center of Excellence in March 2015, and proceeds in 2015 from the Aon litigation settlement.

54

Financing Activities

2017 - Cash used in financing activities in 2017 was $484 million, compared to $343 million used in 2016. The change was primarily due to increases of $92 million of common stock repurchases, $27 million of debt related expenditures, $17 million of cash dividend payments, and $5 million in employee tax withholdings on share-based payment arrangements.

2016 - Cash used in financing activities in 2016 was $343 million, compared to $816 million used in 2015. The change was primarily due to decreases of $449 million of debt related expenditures, $38 million of common stock repurchases, and $3 million in employee tax withholdings on share-based payment arrangements, partially offset by an additional $17 million of cash dividend payments in 2016 compared to 2015.

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow represents cash provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures net of related grant proceeds. Free cash flow is not a measure recognized under GAAP. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity measure for our investors because it provides them insight into our current and period-to-period performance and our ability to generate cash from continuing operations. We also use free cash flow as a key operating metric in assessing the performance of our business and as a key performance measure in evaluating management performance and determining incentive compensation. Free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow:

--------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- - - ---

 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 814 $ 822 $ 861
Less capital expenditures:
Capital expenditure additions (382 ) (285 ) (188 )
Grant proceeds for capital expenditures 21 — —
Free cash flow $ 453 $ 537 $ 673

2017 - Free cash flow decreased $84 million from 2016, primarily due to increased funding of retiree benefit plans, higher capital expenditures, and a change in trade working capital.

2016 - Free cash flow decreased $136 million from 2015, primarily due to capital expenditures, higher funding of retiree benefit plans, a change in trade working capital, and the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation.

Retirement Related Benefit Plan Contributions

ERISA, including amendments under pension relief, defines the minimum amount that must be contributed to our qualified defined benefit pension plans. In determining whether to make discretionary contributions to these plans above the minimum required amounts, we consider various factors, including maintaining the funded status needed to avoid potential benefit restrictions and other adverse consequences, maintaining minimum CAS funding requirements, and the current and anticipated future funding levels of each plan. The contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans are affected by a number of factors, including published IRS interest rates, the actual return on plan assets, actuarial assumptions, and demographic experience. These factors and our resulting contributions also impact the plans' funded statuses. We made the following minimum and discretionary contributions to our pension and other postretirement plans in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015:

55

------------------- ---------------------- --- ---- -- ---- --- -- - ---

 Year Ended December 31
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Pension plans
Discretionary
Qualified $ 294 $ 167 $ 99
Non-qualified 7 6 4
Other benefit plans 34 32 33
Total contributions $ 335 $ 205 $ 136

We made discretionary contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans totaling $294 million, $167 million, and $99 million in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.

As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, our qualified pension plans were funded 89% and 83%, respectively, on a FAS basis. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, these plans were sufficiently funded on an ERISA basis so as not to be subject to benefit payment restrictions. The funded percentages under ERISA and FAS vary due to inherent differences in the assumptions and methodologies used to calculate the respective obligations. We expect our 2018 cash contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans to be $508 million, all of which we anticipate will be discretionary and which are exclusive of CAS cost recoveries in our contracts. Due to the differences in calculation methodologies, our FAS expense is not necessarily representative of our funding requirements or CAS cost recoveries.

Other postretirement benefit contributions were $34 million, $32 million, and $33 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. We expect our 2018 contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans to be approximately $35 million, which are exclusive of CAS cost recoveries in our contracts. Contributions for postretirement benefits are not required to be funded in advance and are paid on an as-incurred basis.

Other Sources and Uses of Capital

Stockholder Distributions - In November 2017, our board of directors authorized an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.72 per share. The board previously increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.60 per share in November 2016 and $0.50 per share in October 2015. We paid cash dividends totaling $115 million ($2.52 per share), $98 million ($2.10 per share), and $81 million ($1.70 per share) in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.

In November 2017, our board of directors authorized an increase in our stock repurchase program from $1.2 billion to $2.2 billion and an extension of the term of the program from October 31, 2019, to October 31, 2022. Repurchases are made from time to time at management's discretion in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased 1,417,808 shares at an aggregate cost of $288 million, of which $2 million was not yet settled for cash as of December 31, 2017. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we repurchased 1,266,192 and 1,987,550 shares, respectively, at aggregate costs of $192 million and $234 million, respectively, of which $2 million was not yet settled for cash as of December 31, 2015.

Additional Capital - In December 2017, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of unregistered 3.483% senior notes with registration rights due December 2027, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase our 5.000% senior notes due in 2021. In November 2015, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of unregistered 5.000% senior notes due November 2025, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase our 7.125% senior notes due in 2021. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually.

In November 2017, we terminated our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with third-party lenders and entered into a new Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with third-party lenders. The Credit Facility includes a revolving credit facility of $1,250 million, which may be drawn upon during a period of five years from November 22, 2017. The revolving credit facility includes a letter of credit subfacility of $500 million. The revolving credit facility has a variable interest rate on outstanding borrowings based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a spread based upon our credit rating, which may vary between 1.125% and 1.500%. The revolving credit facility

56

also has a commitment fee rate on the unutilized balance based on our leverage ratio. The commitment fee rate as of December 31, 2017 was 0.25% and may vary between 0.20% and 0.30%.

We made term loan payments of $395 million during the year ended December 31, 2015, using cash generated from operations.

We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants as of and during the year ended December 31, 2017. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of December 31, 2017, our total outstanding long-term debt was $1,279 million, consisting of senior notes and other third-party debt. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

In connection with the spin-off from Northrop Grumman, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with Northrop Grumman (the "Tax Matters Agreement"), which governs the respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations of Northrop Grumman and us after the spin-off with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests, and other tax sharing regarding U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign income taxes, other taxes, and related tax returns. We have several liabilities with Northrop Grumman to the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the consolidated U.S. federal income taxes of the Northrop Grumman consolidated group relating to the taxable periods in which we were part of that group. The Tax Matters Agreement specifies the portion of this tax liability for which we will bear responsibility, and Northrop Grumman has agreed to indemnify us against any amounts for which we are not responsible.

The following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017, and the estimated timing of related future cash payments:

----------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----------- ----- ----------- --------------- ----- --- --- - -----

($ in millions) Total 2018 2019 - 2020 2021 - 2022 2023 and beyond
Long-term debt $ 1,305 $ — $ — $ — $ 1,305
Interest payments on long-term debt 523 62 124 124 213
Operating leases 194 39 63 41 51
Purchase obligations (1) 2,728 1,494 1,005 161 68
Other long-term liabilities (2) 860 126 143 82 509
Total contractual obligations $ 5,610 $ 1,721 $ 1,335 $ 408 $ 2,146

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) A "purchase obligation" is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on us and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts are primarily comprised of open purchase order commitments to vendors and subcontractors pertaining to funded contracts.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of total accrued workers' compensation reserves, deferred compensation, and other miscellaneous liabilities, of which $250 million is the current portion of workers' compensation liabilities. It excludes obligations for uncertain tax positions of less than $1 million, for which the timing of the payments, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated.

The above table excludes retirement related contributions. Amounts for retirement related contributions depend on plan provisions, actuarial assumptions, actual plan asset performance, and other factors described above under Retirement Related Benefit Plans under Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments and under Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Further details regarding long-term debt and operating leases can be found in Note 14: Debt and Note 16: Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8.

57

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the ordinary course of business, we use standby letters of credit issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to support our self-insured workers' compensation plans. As of December 31, 2017, $15 million in standby letters of credit were issued but undrawn and $258 million of surety bonds were outstanding.

As of December 31, 2017, we had no other significant off-balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases. For a description of our operating leases, see Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 16: Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8.

58

GLOSSARY OF PROGRAMS

Included below are brief descriptions of some of the programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

---------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Program Name Program Description

America class (LHA 6) amphibious assault ships Design and build large deck amphibious assault ships that provide forward presence and power projection as an integral part of joint, interagency and multinational maritime expeditionary forces. The America class (LHA 6) ships, together with the Wasp class (LHD 1) ships, are the successors to the decommissioned Tarawa class (LHA 1) ships. The America class (LHA 6) ships optimize aviation operations and support capabilities. We delivered USS America (LHA 6) in April 2014, Tripoli (LHA 7) is scheduled for delivery in fourth quarter 2018, and we were awarded a construction contract for Bougainville (LHA 8) in 2017.

Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers Build guided missile destroyers designed for conducting anti-air, anti-submarine, anti-surface, and strike operations. The Aegis-equipped Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers are the U.S. Navy's primary surface combatant, and have been constructed in variants, allowing technological advances during construction. In 2016 we delivered USS John Finn (DDG 113), and in 2017 we delivered Ralph Johnson (DDG 114). In June 2013, we were awarded a multi-year contract for construction of five additional Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers: Paul Ignatius (DDG 117), Delbert D. Black (DDG 119), Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), and Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125).

Carrier RCOH Perform refueling and complex overhaul ("RCOH") of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, which is required at the mid-point of their 50-year life cycle. USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72) was redelivered to the U.S. Navy in the second quarter of 2017 and USS George Washington (CVN 73) arrived at Newport News for the start of its RCOH in August 2017.

Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarines Newport News is participating in designing the Columbia class submarine as a replacement for the current aging Ohio class nuclear ballistic missile submarines, which were first introduced into service in 1981. The Ohio class SSBN includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines. The Columbia class program plan of record is to construct 12 new ballistic missile submarines. The U.S. Navy has initiated the design process for the new class of submarines, and, in early 2017, the DOD signed the acquisition decision memorandum approving the Columbia class program’s Milestone B, which formally authorizes the program’s entry into the engineering and manufacturing development phase. We continue to perform design work as a subcontractor to Electric Boat, and we have entered into a teaming agreement with Electric Boat to build modules for the entire Columbia class submarine program that leverages our Virginia class (SSN 774) experience. The teaming agreement is subject to the U.S. Navy's concurrence. Newport News was awarded a contract from Electric Boat in 2017 to begin integrated product and process development for the Columbia class. Construction of the first Columbia class submarine is expected to begin in 2021, with procurement of long-lead-time materials and advance construction beginning prior to that time.

59

----------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fleet support services Provide comprehensive life-cycle sustainment services to the U.S. Navy fleet and other DoD and commercial maritime customers. We provide services including maintenance, modernization, and repair on all ship classes; naval architecture, marine engineering, and design; integrated logistics support; technical documentation development; warehousing, asset management, and material readiness; operational and maintenance training development and delivery; software design and development; IT infrastructure support and data delivery and management; and cyber security and information assurance. We provide undersea vehicle and specialized craft development and prototyping services.

Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Design and construction for the Ford class program, which is the aircraft carrier replacement program for the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and Nimitz class (CVN 68) aircraft carriers. USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), the first ship of the Ford class, was delivered to the U.S. Navy in the second quarter of 2017. In June 2015, we were awarded a contract for the detail design and construction of John F. Kennedy (CVN 79), following several years of engineering, advance construction, and purchase of long-lead time components and material. In February 2017, we were awarded a contract for advance planning of Enterprise (CVN 80), the third Ford class aircraft carrier. This category also includes the class' non-recurring engineering. The class is expected to bring improved warfighting capability, quality of life improvements for sailors, and reduced life cycle costs.

Integrated missions solutions services Provide services including high-end information technology and mission-based solutions to DoD, intelligence, and federal civilian customers. Services include agile software engineering, development, and integration; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ("C4ISR") engineering and software integration; mobile application development and network engineering; modeling, simulation, and training; force protection and emergency management training and exercises; unmanned systems development, integration, operations, and maintenance; and mission-oriented intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance analytics.

Legend class National Security Cutter Design and build the U.S. Coast Guard's National Security Cutters ("NSCs"), the largest and most technically advanced class of cutter in the U.S. Coast Guard. The NSC is equipped to carry out maritime homeland security, maritime safety, protection of natural resources, maritime mobility, and national defense missions. The plan is for a total of nine ships, of which the first six ships have been delivered. Kimball (NSC 7), Midgett (NSC 8), and Stone (NSC 9) are currently under construction.

Naval nuclear support services Provide services to and in support of the U.S. Navy, ranging from services supporting the Navy's carrier and submarine fleets to maintenance services at U.S. Navy training facilities. Naval nuclear support services include design, construction, maintenance, and disposal activities for in service U.S. Navy nuclear ships worldwide through mobile and in-house capabilities. Services include maintenance services on nuclear reactor prototypes.

60

---------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Nuclear and environmental services Provide services in nuclear management and operations, and nuclear and non-nuclear fabrication and repair. We provide site management, nuclear and industrial facilities operations and maintenance, decontamination and decommissioning, and radiological and hazardous waste management services. We provide services, including fabrication, equipment repair, and technical engineering services. We participate in several joint ventures, including N3B, MSTS, and SRNS. N3B was awarded the Los Alamos Legacy Cleanup Contract at the DoE/National Nuclear Security Administration’s Los Alamos National Laboratory. MSTS was awarded a contract for site management and operations at the Nevada National Security Site. SRNS provides site management and operations at the DoE's Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina.

Oil and gas services Deliver engineering, procurement, and construction management services to the oil and gas industry for major pipeline, production, and treatment facilities. These services include full life-cycle services for domestic and international projects, from concept identification through detail design, execution and construction, and decommissioning. Related field services include survey, inspection, commissioning and start-up, operations and maintenance, and optimization and debottlenecking.

San Antonio class (LPD 17) amphibious transport dock ships Design and build amphibious transport dock ships, which are warships that embark, transport, and land elements of a landing force for a variety of expeditionary warfare missions, and also serve as the secondary aviation platform for Amphibious Readiness Groups. The San Antonio class (LPD 17) is the newest addition to the U.S. Navy's 21st century amphibious assault force, and these ships are a key element of the U.S. Navy's seabase transformation. In 2013, we delivered USS Somerset (LPD 25), in 2016, we delivered USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), and, in 2017, we delivered Portland (LPD 27). We are currently constructing Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28). The San Antonio class (LPD 17) currently includes a total of 11 ships.

The decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) Defuel and inactivate the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which began in 2013.

Virginia class (SSN 774) fast attack submarines Construct attack submarines as the principal subcontractor to Electric Boat. The Virginia class (SSN 774) is a post-Cold War design tailored to excel in a wide range of warfighting missions, including anti-submarine and surface ship warfare; special operation forces; strike; intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; carrier and expeditionary strike group support; and mine warfare.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS TubeMogul On December 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we are continuing to integrate TubeMogul into our Digital Marketing reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to TubeMogul's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of December 19, 2016. During fiscal 2017, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to tangible assets, liabilities assumed, and their related impact to goodwill. The total final purchase price for TubeMogul was $560.8 million of which $348.4 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $113.1 million to identifiable intangible assets and $99.3 million to net assets acquired. Fotolia On January 27, 2015, we completed our acquisition of privately held Fotolia, a leading marketplace for royalty-free photos, images, graphics and HD videos. During fiscal 2015, we integrated Fotolia into our Digital Media reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Fotolia's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of January 27, 2015. During fiscal 2015, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to assumed intangible assets, calculation of deferred tax assets, liabilities and equity awards. The total final purchase price for Fotolia was $807.5 million of which $745.1 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $204.4 million to identifiable intangible assets and $142.0 million to net liabilities assumed. We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. Pro forma information has n...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 Net Investment in Operating Leases FS-35

[See Note 18]:
Note 18. Income Taxes 76

[See Note 18]:
Note 18. Income Taxes 76

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 12]:
NOTE 12. Related Parties and Affiliates Conrail Through a limited liability company, CSX and Norfolk Southern Corporation ("NS") jointly own Conrail. CSX has a 42% economic interest and 50% voting interest in the jointly-owned entity, and NS has the remainder of the economic and voting interests. Pursuant to the Investments-Equity Method and Joint Venture Topic in the ASC, CSX applies the equity method of accounting to its investment in Conrail. Conrail owns rail infrastructure and operates for the joint benefit of CSX and NS. This is known as the shared asset area. Conrail charges fees for right-of-way usage, equipment rentals and transportation, switching and terminal service charges in the shared asset area. These expenses are included in materials, supplies and other on the consolidated income statements. Future minimum lease payments due to Conrail under the shared asset area agreements are shown in the table below. --------------------- --------------- --- (Dollars in Millions) Conrail Shared Years Asset Agreement 2018 $ 27 2019 27 2020 27 2021 27 2022 27 Thereafter 48 Total $ 183 Also, included in equity earnings of affiliates are CSX's 42 percent share of Conrail's income and its amortization of the fair value write-up arising from the acquisition of Conrail and certain other adjustments. The amortization primarily represents the additional after-tax depreciation expense related to the write-up of Conrail's fixed assets when the original purchase price, from the 1997 acquisition of Conrail, was allocated based on fair value. This write-up of fixed assets resulted in a difference between CSX's investment in Conrail and its share of Conrail's underlying net equity, which is $347 million as of December 2017. CSX 2017 Form 10-K p. 101 CSX CORPORATION PART II

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 Net Investment in Operating Leases FS-35

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 Net Investment in Operating Leases FS-35

[See Note 14]:
NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Rent expense includes base contractual rent and variable costs such as building expenses, utilities, taxes, insurance and equipment rental. Rent expense for these leases was approximately $115.4 million in fiscal 2017 and $92.9 million in both fiscal 2016 and 2015. Our sublease income was immaterial for all periods presented. We occupy three office buildings in San Jose, California where our corporate headquarters are located. We reference these office buildings as the Almaden, East and West Towers. In March 2017, we exercised our option to purchase the Almaden Tower for a total purchase price of $103.6 million. Upon purchase, our investment in the lease receivable of $80.4 million was credited against the total purchase price. We capitalized the Almaden Tower as property and equipment on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at $104.2 million, the lesser of cost or fair value, which represented the total purchase price plus other direct costs associated with the purchase. As of December 1, 2017, we own the buildings and the underlying land that make up our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California, including the Almaden Tower. Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. 90 ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations and operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 1, 2017 (in thousands): ----------- ------- -------------------- -------------------------- - --------------------------- ----- - ------ Operating Leases Fiscal Year Purchase O...

[See Note 14]:
NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Rent expense includes base contractual rent and variable costs such as building expenses, utilities, taxes, insurance and equipment rental. Rent expense for these Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. 90 ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations and operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 1, 2017 (in thousands): ----------- ------- -------------------- -------------------------- - --------------------------- ----- - ------ Operating Leases Fiscal Year Purchase O...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 Net Investment in Operating Leases FS-35

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 Net Investment in Operating Leases FS-35

[see Note 14]:
NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Rent expense includes base contractual rent and variable costs such as building expenses, utilities, taxes, insurance and equipment rental. Rent expense for these leases was approximately $115.4 million in fiscal 2017 and $92.9 million in both fiscal 2016 and 2015. Our sublease income was immaterial for all periods presented. We occupy three office buildings in San Jose, California where our corporate headquarters are located. We reference these office buildings as the Almaden, East and West Towers. In March 2017, we exercised our option to purchase the Almaden Tower for a total purchase price of $103.6 million. Upon purchase, our investment in the lease receivable of $80.4 million was credited against the total purchase price. We capitalized the Almaden Tower as property and equipment on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at $104.2 million, the lesser of cost or fair value, which represented the total purchase price plus other direct costs associated with the purchase. As of December 1, 2017, we own the buildings and the underlying land that make up our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California, including the Almaden Tower. Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. 90 ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations and operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 1, 2017 (in thousands): ----------- ------- -------------------- -------------------------- - --------------------------- ----- - ------ Operating Leases Fiscal Year Purchase O...

[see Note 14]:
NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Rent expense includes base contractual rent and variable costs such as building expenses, utilities, taxes, insurance and equipment rental. Rent expense for these leases was approximately $115.4 million in fiscal 2017 and $92.9 million in both fiscal 2016 and 2015. Our sublease income was immaterial for all periods presented. We occupy three office buildings in San Jose, California where our corporate headquarters are located. We reference these office buildings as the Almaden, East and West Towers. In March 2017, we exercised our option to purchase the Almaden Tower for a total purchase price of $103.6 million. Upon purchase, our investment in the lease receivable of $80.4 million was credited against the total purchase price. We capitalized the Almaden Tower as property and equipment on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at $104.2 million, the lesser of cost or fair value, which represented the total purchase price plus other direct costs associated with the purchase. As of December 1, 2017, we own the buildings and the underlying land that make up our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California, including the Almaden Tower. Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. 90 ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations and operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 1, 2017 (in thousands): ----------- ------- -------------------- -------------------------- - --------------------------- ----- - ------ Operating Leases Fiscal Year Purchase O...

[see Note 2]:
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS TubeMogul On December 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we are continuing to integrate TubeMogul into our Digital Marketing reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to TubeMogul's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of December 19, 2016. During fiscal 2017, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to tangible assets, liabilities assumed, and their related impact to goodwill. The total final purchase price for TubeMogul was $560.8 million of which $348.4 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $113.1 million to identifiable intangible assets and $99.3 million to net assets acquired. Fotolia On January 27, 2015, we completed our acquisition of privately held Fotolia, a leading marketplace for royalty-free photos, images, graphics and HD videos. During fiscal 2015, we integrated Fotolia into our Digital Media reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Fotolia's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of January 27, 2015. During fiscal 2015, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to assumed intangible assets, calculation of deferred tax assets, liabilities and equity awards. The total final purchase price for Fotolia was $807.5 million of which $745.1 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $204.4 million to identifiable intangible assets and $142.0 million to net liabilities assumed. We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. Pro forma information has n...

['S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Our Business

Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. is America’s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than and internationally.

We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense technology programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, and oil and gas services.

The following discussion should be read along with the audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Environment

In August 2011, the BCA established limits on U.S. Government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion for fiscal years 2012 through 2021. The BCA also for non-defense discretionary spending, including the U.S. Coast Guard.

The BBA 2018 provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and raised the budget topline for defense and non-defense defense plan, and it is likely that U.S. Government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure.

We cannot predict the impact that sequestration cuts or reprioritization we participate may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government or the prime contractor as a result of lack of government funding or reductions or delays in government funding. Significant reductions in the number of ships procured by the U.S. Navy or significant delays in funding our ship programs would have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

The budget discretionary spending, the defense industrial base, including us, and the customers, employees, suppliers, subcontractors, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial efforts. It is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term impacts on us and the entire defense industry.

33

Defense Industry Overview

The United States faces a complex, directed energy, hypersonics, and biotechnology.

States are the principal actors on the global stage, but non-state actors also threaten the security environment with increasingly sophisticated capabilities. ideology and unstable political and economic structures.

We expect that the DoD execution of its strategy will require an affordable balance between investments in restoring the readiness of the current force with investments in new capabilities, technologies, and capacity to meet future challenges. The DoD faces the additional challenge of recapitalizing equipment and rebuilding readiness at a time long-lived assets.

In December 2016, the U.S. Navy released the findings of a year-long Force Structure Assessment, developed to determine the right balance of existing forces, the ships currently under construction, and the future procurement plans needed to address the ever-evolving and increasingly complex threats that the Navy is required to counter. Notably, the Force Structure Assessment did not and recommends a force size that can reasonably achieve success. Accordingly, the Force Structure Assessment reflects an objective force of 355 ships, comprised of 12 aircraft carriers, 104 large surface ships. It remains unclear, however, whether the 2016 Force Structure Assessment or the requirements of the SHIPS Act will have any bearing on budget outcomes for fiscal year 2019 and beyond.

The shipbuilding defense industry, as characterized by its competitors, customers, suppliers, potential entrants, and substitutes, is unique in many ways. It is heavily capital and skilled labor intensive. The U.S. Navy, a large single customer with many needs and requirements, dominates the industry']:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31

['s littoral combat ship. The U.S. Navy must compete with other national priorities, including other defense activities, non-defense discretionary spending, and entitlement programs, for a share of federal budget funding.

The Administration has focused on regulatory reform in order to manage the costs associated with the governmental imposition of private expenditures required to comply with federal regulations. Additionally, an Executive Order issued in February 2017 requires that for every new regulation issued, at least two prior regulations must be identified for elimination, and that the cost of planned regulations be prudently managed and controlled through a budgeting process. The DoD continues to adjust its procurement practices and streamline acquisition organizations and processes in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. While the impact to our business resulting from these initiatives remains uncertain, they could have a material impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the DoD. See Risk Factors in Item 1A.

34

Program Descriptions

For convenience, a brief description of certain programs discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is included in the Glossary of Programs.

CONTRACTS

We generate most of our revenues from long-term U.S. Government contracts for design, production, and support activities. Government contracts typically include the following cost elements: direct material, labor and subcontracting costs, and certain indirect costs, including allowable general and administrative expenses. Unless otherwise specified in a contract, costs billed to contracts with the U.S. Government are treated as allowable and allocable costs under the FAR and CAS regulations. Examples of costs incurred by us that are not allowable under the FAR and CAS regulations include certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, interest expense, and advertising costs.

We monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations. In addition, the DCAA routinely audits the costs we incur that are allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government.

Our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories:

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Flexibly-Priced Contracts - Includes both cost-type and fixed-price incentive contracts. Cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 18

['s underlying assets.

Management reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements, and additional pricing information to evaluate the NAV or its equivalent. For the limited group of investments for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. See Note 18: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, in Item 8.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income - Changes in assumptions and changes to plan assets and benefit obligations due to differences between actuarial assumptions and actual results are reported as actuarial gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income along with unrecognized prior service costs arising from plan amendments. As disclosed in Note 18: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8, net pre-tax unrecognized actuarial losses as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $1,459 million and $1,583 million, respectively. The decrease in these actuarial losses in 2017 was primarily driven by actual asset returns which were $473 million above expected returns, $93 million of amortization of previously unrecognized actuarial losses, $68 million actuarial gain from updated mortality assumptions, and a $625 million actuarial loss due to the decrease in the discount rates used to determine benefit obligations.

Net pre-tax unrecognized prior service costs (credits) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $47 million and $(18) million, respectively. These net deferred costs (credits) primarily originated from plan amendments, including those resulting from collective bargaining agreements. The change in unrecognized prior service costs (credits) in 2017 primarily resulted from amendments within a collective bargaining agreement, offset by the amortization of previously accumulated prior service costs (credits).

Workers']:
Note 18. Income Taxes 76

['s discretion in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased 1,417,808 shares at an aggregate cost of $288 million, of which $2 million was not yet settled for cash as of December 31, 2017. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we repurchased 1,266,192 and 1,987,550 shares, respectively, at aggregate costs of $192 million and $234 million, respectively, of which $2 million was not yet settled for cash as of December 31, 2015.

Additional Capital - In December 2017, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of unregistered 3.483% senior notes with registration rights due December 2027, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase our 5.000% senior notes due in 2021. In November 2015, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of unregistered 5.000% senior notes due November 2025, the net proceeds of which were used to repurchase our 7.125% senior notes due in 2021. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi-annually.

In November 2017, we terminated our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with third-party lenders and entered into a new Credit Agreement (the "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 92 ------- ------------------------------------------------------ 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[") plus a spread based upon our credit rating, which may vary between 1.125% and 1.500%. The revolving credit facility

56

also has a commitment fee rate on the unutilized balance based on our leverage ratio. The commitment fee rate as of December 31, 2017 was 0.25% and may vary between 0.20% and 0.30%.

We made term loan payments of $395 million during the year ended December 31, 2015, using cash generated from operations.

We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants as of and during the year ended December 31, 2017. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of December 31, 2017, our total outstanding long-term debt was $1,279 million, consisting of senior notes and other third-party debt. For a description of our outstanding debt amounts and related restrictive covenants, see Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

In connection with the spin-off from Northrop Grumman, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with Northrop Grumman (the "]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Com...

[' compensation liabilities. It excludes obligations for uncertain tax positions of less than $1 million, for which the timing of the payments, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated.

The above table excludes retirement related contributions. Amounts for retirement related contributions depend on plan provisions, actuarial assumptions, actual plan asset performance, and other factors described above under Retirement Related Benefit Plans under Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments and under Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Further details regarding long-term debt and operating leases can be found in Note 14: Debt and Note 16: Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8.

57

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In the ordinary course of business, we use standby letters of credit issued by commercial banks and surety bonds issued by insurance companies principally to support our self-insured workers']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Com...

['s fair value can be reasonably estimated, including certain asbestos removal, asset decommissioning, and contractual lease restoration obligations. Recorded amounts as of each of December 31, 2017 and 2016, were $19 million and consist primarily of obligations associated with the wind down of shipbuilding operations at our Avondale facility. See Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8.

We also have known conditional asset retirement obligations related to assets currently in use, such as certain asbestos remediation and asset decommissioning activities to be performed in the future, that were not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2017, due to insufficient information about the timing and method of settlement of the obligation. Accordingly, the fair value of these obligations has not been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Environmental remediation and/or asset decommissioning of these facilities may be required when we cease to utilize these facilities. In addition, there may be conditional environmental asset retirement obligations that we have not yet discovered (for example, asbestos of which we have not become aware through normal business operations may exist in certain buildings), and these obligations have therefore not been included in our consolidated financial statements.

Litigation Accruals - Litigation accruals are recorded as charges to earnings when management has determined, after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of each matter, including any settlement offers, that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of any exposure may vary from earlier estimates as further facts and circumstances become known. Based upon the information available, we believe that the resolution of any of these various legal proceedings will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Uncertain Tax Positions - Uncertain tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, based on the merits of the position, are recognized in the financial statements. We recognize the amount of tax benefit that is

39

greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. If a tax position does not meet the minimum statutory threshold to avoid payment of penalties, we recognize an expense for the amount of the penalty in the period the tax position is claimed or expected to be claimed in our tax return. Penalties are recorded in earnings in the period they are determined.

Retirement Related Benefit Plans

We recognize, on a plan-by-plan basis, the funded status of our retirement related benefit plans as an asset or liability on our balance sheet, with corresponding adjustments to after-tax accumulated other comprehensive income and deferred tax assets or liabilities. The funded status represents the difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. See Note 18: Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in Item 8.

We calculate our retirement related benefit plan costs under both CAS and U.S. GAAP Financial Accounting Standards ("]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 92 ------- ------------------------------------------------------ 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[" which is defined as operating income before the FAS/CAS Adjustment and non-current state income taxes, neither of which affects segment performance. Segment operating income is not a recognized measure under GAAP.  When analyzing our operating performance, investors should use segment operating income in addition to, and not as an alternative for, operating income or any other performance measure presented in accordance with GAAP. It is a measure we use to evaluate our core operating performance.  We believe segment not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

The following table reconciles segment operating income to operating income:

------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- --- -------------- --- ------- - ------- --- ------- ------- --- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Segment operating income (loss) $ 688 $ 715 $ 667 $ (27 ) (4 )% $ 48 7 %
FAS/CAS Adjustment 189 145 104 44 30 % 41 39 %
Non-current state income taxes (12 ) (2 ) (2 ) (10 ) (500 )% — — %
Operating income (loss) $ 865 $ 858 $ 769 $ 7 1 % $ 89 12 %

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Segment operating income in 2017 was $688 million, compared to $715 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily contract in 2017, partially offset by higher risk retirement on Tripoli (LHA 7) and Portland (LPD 27), the resolution of

47

outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), and improved performance in oil and gas services.

2016 - Segment operating income in 2016 was $715 million, compared to $667 million in 2015. The increase was primarily due to the goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges in the Technical Solutions segment in 2015, higher risk retirement on the San Antonio class (LPD 17) program, favorable changes in overhead cost, and the receipt of a local government incentive grant, partially offset by the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation, lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine program, and lower volume and lower risk retirement on the execution contract for the RCOH of USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72).

Activity within each segment is discussed under Segment Operating Results below.

FAS/CAS Adjustment

The FAS/CAS Adjustment represents the difference between our pension and postretirement plan expense under FAS and under CAS.

------------------ ---------------------- ---- -------------- --- -------------- ---- ------- ------- ---- ------- ------- --- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
FAS expense $ (172 ) $ (161 ) $ (168 ) $ (11 ) (7 )% $ 7 4 %
CAS cost 361 306 272 55 18 % 34 13 %
FAS/CAS Adjustment $ 189 $ 145 $ 104 $ 44 30 % $ 41 39 %

2017 - The FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2017 was a net benefit of $189 million, compared to a net benefit of $145 million in 2016. The favorable change was primarily driven by the continued phase-in of Harmonization.

We expect the FAS/CAS Adjustment in 2018 to be a net benefit of approximately $369 million ($91 million FAS and $460 million CAS), primarily driven by the more immediate recognition of the 2017 asset during 2018, when we remeasure our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for CAS with updated census data and other items later in the year.

Non-current State Income Taxes

Non-current revenues in segment operating income.

2017 - Non-current state income tax expense in 2017 was $12 million, compared to $2 million in 2016. Deferred state income tax expense in 2017 was $12 million, compared with the applicable taxing authority and was partially offset by the recognition of a non-current state tax expense in a different jurisdiction impacted by the results of the settlement. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

2016 - Non-current state income tax expense remained constant at $2 million in 2016 and 2015. Deferred state income tax expense in 2016 was $8 million as compared to deferred state adjustments. In 2016, the decrease in state uncertain tax positions resulted in a net tax benefit of $6 million, as compared to $2 million of tax expense in 2015. The state uncertain tax position was settled through agreement with the applicable taxing authority and was partially offset by

48

the recognition of a non-current state tax expense in a different jurisdiction impacted by the results of the settlement. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

Interest Expense

2017 - Interest expense in 2017 was $94 million, compared to $74 million in 2016. The increase was primarily a result of a loss on the early extinguishment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2017. See Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

2016 - Interest expense in 2016 was $74 million, compared to $137 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily debt in 2015. See Note 14: Debt in Item 8.

Federal and Foreign Income Taxes

2017 - Our effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations was 38.0% in 2017, compared to 26.9% in 2016. The increase the domestic manufacturing deduction primarily resulting from an increase in the Company’s 2018 expected discretionary pre-tax pension contributions. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

2016 - Our effective tax benefits, and the goodwill impairment that was recorded in 2015. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.

In December 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Act, which made significant changes to U.S. federal for the year ended December 31, 2017. In future periods, we expect that Tax Act changes will positively impact our after-tax earnings primarily due to the lower corporate income tax rate.

SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS

Basis of Presentation

We are aligned into three reportable segments: Ingalls, Newport News, and Technical Solutions. We established the Technical Solutions segment in the fourth quarter of 2016 Other segment to our Technical Solutions segment, and our Other segment was dissolved.

In December 2016, we completed the acquisition of Camber, and, in 2015, we completed the acquisition of USC. We report the post-acquisition results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of Camber and USC as part of our Technical Solutions segment.

49

Segment operating results are presented in the following table:

----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ----- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- --- - ---- -- -- --- -- --- - --- --

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and Service Revenues
Ingalls $ 2,420 $ 2,389 $ 2,188 $ 31 1 % $ 201 9 %
Newport News 4,164 4,089 4,298 75 2 % (209 ) (5 )%
Technical Solutions 952 691 616 261 38 % 75 12 %
Intersegment eliminations (95 ) (101 ) (82 ) 6 6 % (19 ) (23 )%
Sales and service revenues $ 7,441 $ 7,068 $ 7,020 $ 373 5 % $ 48 1 %
Operating Income (Loss)
Ingalls $ 313 $ 321 $ 379 $ (8 ) (2 )% $ (58 ) (15 )%
Newport News 354 386 401 (32 ) (8 )% (15 ) (4 )%
Technical Solutions 21 8 (113 ) 13 163 % 121 107 %
Segment operating income (loss) 688 715 667 (27 ) (4 )% 48 7 %
Non-segment factors affecting operating income (loss)
FAS/CAS Adjustment 189 145 104 44 30 % 41 39 %
Non-current state income taxes (12 ) (2 ) (2 ) (10 ) (500 )% — — %
Operating income (loss) $ 865 $ 858 $ 769 $ 7 1 % $ 89 12 %

KEY SEGMENT FINANCIAL MEASURES

Sales and Service Revenues

Period-to-period revenues reflect performance for a particular contract.

Segment Operating Income

Segment operating income reflects the aggregate performance results of contracts within a segment. Excluded from this measure are certain costs not contract earnings. Where such items have occurred and the effects are material, a separate description is provided.

Ingalls

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- ---- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- -- --- - - --- -- --- - -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 2,420 $ 2,389 $ 2,188 $ 31 1 % $ 201 9 %
Segment operating income (loss) 313 321 379 (8 ) (2 )% (58 ) (15 )%
As a percentage of segment sales 12.9 % 13.4 % 17.3 %

50

Sales and Service Revenues

2017 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $31 million, or 1%, in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by higher revenues in amphibious assault ships, Munro (NSC 6), partially offset by higher volumes on Stone (NSC 9) and Midgett (NSC 8).

2016 - Ingalls revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $201 million, or 9%, in 2016 compared to 2015, 6), partially offset by higher volume on Midgett (NSC 8).

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Ingalls operating income in 2017 was $313 million, compared to income of $321 million in 2016. The decrease was (LPD 27).

2016 - Ingalls operating income in 2016 was $321 million, compared to income of $379 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the impact in 2015 of the settlement of the Aon litigation and lower risk retirement on the America class (LHA 6) program, partially offset by higher risk retirement on USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26), Portland (LPD 27), and Ralph Johnson (DDG 114).

Newport News

-------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- -------------- --- -------------- ----- ------- - ------- ----- ------- ------- -- --- - - -- -- ---- - -- --

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 4,164 $ 4,089 $ 4,298 $ 75 2 % $ (209 ) (5 )%
Segment operating income (loss) 354 386 401 (32 ) (8 )% (15 ) (4 )%
As a percentage of segment sales 8.5 % 9.4 % 9.3 %

Sales and Service Revenues

2017 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, increased $75 million, or 2%, in 2017 contract for Enterprise (CVN 80), partially offset by lower volumes on the execution contract for the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72), the construction contract for the delivered lower volumes on Block III boats, partially offset by higher volumes on Block IV boats.

2016 - Newport News revenues, including intersegment sales, decreased $209 million, or 5%, in 2016 compared to 2015, primarily driven by lower revenues in aircraft carriers. Aircraft carriers revenues decreased primarily as a

51

result of lower volumes on USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78) and the execution contract for the services, offset by lower volumes on Block III boats.

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Newport News operating income in 2017 was $354 million, compared to income of $386 million in 2016. The decrease was grant, partially offset by the resolution of outstanding contract changes on the inactivation of the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) and the RCOH of the redelivered USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72).

2016 - Newport News operating income in 2016 was $386 million, compared to income of $401 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower risk retirement in the Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine in overhead cost, and higher volumes on John F. Kennedy (CVN 79) and the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73), as well as the receipt of a local government incentive grant.

Technical Solutions

-------------------------------- ---------------------- --- -------------- --- -------------- --- ------- -- ------- --- ------- ------- --- --- -- - --- - -- -- -

 Year Ended December 31 2017 over 2016 2016 over 2015
($ in millions) 2017 2016 2015 Dollars Percent Dollars Percent
Sales and service revenues $ 952 $ 691 $ 616 $ 261 38 % $ 75 12 %
Segment operating income (loss) 21 8 (113 ) 13 163 % 121 107 %
As a percentage of segment sales 2.2 % 1.2 % (18.3 )%

Sales and Service Revenues

2017 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased $261 million, or 38%, compared offset by lower nuclear and environmental volumes due to the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

2016 - Technical Solutions revenues, including intersegment sales, for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased $75 million, or 12%, compared to 2015, primarily due to higher nuclear and environmental and fleet support revenues, as well as the acquisition of Camber, partially offset by lower revenues in oil and gas services. Nuclear and environmental revenues increased due to higher volumes and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on a commercial contract, partially offset by lower volumes associated with environmental remediation programs.

Segment Operating Income

2017 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2017, was $21 million, compared to operating income of $8 million in 2016. The increase was primarily due to improved performance in oil and gas services and higher volume commercial contract in 2017 and the resolution in 2016 of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

2016 - Operating income in the Technical Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2016, was $8 million, compared to an operating loss of $113 million in 2015. The increase was primarily due to goodwill and

52

intangible asset impairment charges in 2015 and the resolution of outstanding contract changes on a nuclear and environmental commercial contract.

BACKLOG

Total backlog as of December 31, 2017, was approximately $21 billion. Total backlog includes the customer.

The following table presents funded and unfunded backlog by segment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016:

------------------- ----------------- ------ ----------------- ----- ------- ----- ------ -------- ------ ------- ----- ------ ------ - ----- - ------

 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
 Total Total
($ in millions) Funded Unfunded Backlog Funded Unfunded Backlog
Ingalls $ 5,920 $ 2,071 $ 7,991 $ 6,033 $ 692 $ 6,725
Newport News 6,976 5,608 12,584 5,799 7,127 12,926
Technical Solutions 478 314 792 712 372 1,084
Total backlog $ 13,374 $ 7,993 $ 21,367 $ 12,544 $ 8,191 $ 20,735

As a result of integration efforts following the acquisition of Camber, the Company corrected the Technical Solutions segment']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 92 ------- ------------------------------------------------------ 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement