================================================================================
CIK: 0000354950
Company Name: HOME DEPOT, INC
Filing Date: 2021-03-24
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-01 16:37:02
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2020, filed with the SEC on March 25, 2020.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To provide clarity about our operating performance, we supplement our reporting with certain non-GAAP financial measures. However, this supplemental information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related GAAP measures. Non-GAAP financial measures presented herein may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
Return on Invested Capital. We believe ROIC is meaningful for investors and management because it measures how effectively we deploy our capital base. We define ROIC as NOPAT, a non-GAAP financial measure, for the most recent twelve-month period, divided by average debt and equity. We define average debt and equity as the average of beginning and ending long-term debt (including current installments) and equity for the most recent twelve-month period.
The calculation of ROIC, together with a reconciliation of NOPAT to net earnings (the most comparable GAAP measure), follows:

--------------------------- ------- ------ ------ ------- ------ ------ ------- - - ------
 Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
dollars in millions 2020 2019 2018
Net earnings $ 12,866 $ 11,242 $ 11,121
Interest and other, net 1,300 1,128 974
Provision for income taxes 4,112 3,473 3,435
Operating income 18,278 15,843 15,530
Income tax adjustment (1) (4,423) (3,739) (3,665)
NOPAT $ 13,855 $ 12,104 $ 11,865

Average debt and equity (2) $ 33,964 $ 26,686 $ 26,492

ROIC 40.8 % 45.4 % 44.8 %

—————
Note: Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 include 52 weeks. Fiscal 2018 includes 53 weeks.
(1)Income tax adjustment is defined as operating income multiplied by our effective tax rate for the trailing twelve months.
(2)The beginning balance of equity for fiscal 2019 was adjusted to reflect an immaterial opening balance sheet adjustment due to the adoption of Topic 842, Leases, in fiscal 2019. The beginning balance of equity for fiscal 2018 was adjusted to reflect an opening balance sheet adjustment of $75 million due to the adoption of Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in fiscal 2018.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year
At January 31, 2021, we had $7.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents, of which $1.3 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe that our current cash position, access to the long-term debt capital markets, cash flow generated from operations, and funds available from our commercial paper programs, should be sufficient not only for our operating requirements but also to enable us to complete our capital expenditure programs, fund dividend payments, fund any share repurchases, and make any required long-term debt payments through the next several fiscal years. We also intend to maintain an elevated cash position during fiscal 2021 to further enhance our strong liquidity position. In addition, we believe we have the ability to obtain alternative sources of financing, if necessary.
During fiscal 2020, we chose to defer some of our in-store strategic investments to prioritize the safety of our associates and customers in response to COVID-19. We expect to complete these investments in fiscal 2021. For

30

Table of Contents
fiscal 2021, we will continue to follow our disciplined approach to capital allocation, and we currently estimate capital expenditures of approximately two percent of net sales on an annual basis. However, we may adjust our capital expenditures to support the operations of the business or in response to the economic environment, as necessary or appropriate.
Debt and Derivative Instruments
In March 2020, we expanded our commercial paper programs from $3.0 billion to $6.0 billion to further enhance our liquidity position in response to the pandemic. All of our short-term borrowings in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 were under these commercial paper programs. In connection with these programs, we had back-up credit facilities with a consortium of banks for borrowings up to $6.5 billion, which consisted of (1) a five-year $2.0 billion credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in December 2023, (2) a 364-day $1.0 billion credit facility scheduled to expire December 2021, and (3) a 364-day $3.5 billion credit facility that we entered into in March 2020 that was scheduled to expire in March 2021. In December 2020, we completed the renewal of our 364-day $1.0 billion credit facility and extended our five-year $2.0 billion credit facility, which extended the maturities from December 2020 to December 2021 and from December 2022 to December 2023, respectively. On January 29, 2021, we terminated the 364-day $3.5 billion credit facility and at the same time reduced our commercial paper programs back to a maximum of $3.0 billion. At January 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all of the covenants contained in the two remaining credit facilities, none of which are expected to impact our liquidity or capital resources. At January 31, 2021, there were no borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper programs compared to $974 million outstanding at February 2, 2020. We may enter into additional credit facilities or other debt financing.
We issue senior notes from time to time as part of our capital management strategy. In March 2020 and January 2021, we issued $5.0 billion and $3.0 billion of senior notes, respectively. We also repaid an aggregate of $2.9 billion of long-term debt during fiscal 2020, and in March 2021, we also fully repaid our $1.35 billion 2.00% senior notes that had a maturity date of April 2021.
We use derivative and nonderivative instruments as part of our normal business operations in the management of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates on certain debt. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our senior notes issuances, repayments and derivative instruments.
Leases
We use operating and finance leases to fund a portion of our real estate, including our stores, distribution centers, and store support centers. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our operating and finance leases.
Share Repurchases
In February 2019, our Board of Directors authorized $15.0 billion in share repurchases, of which approximately $7.7 billion remained available at the end of fiscal 2020. During fiscal 2020, we had cash payments of $791 million for repurchases of our common stock through open market purchases. In March 2020, we suspended our share repurchases to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet the needs of the business during the pandemic. We resumed share repurchases in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, the amount and continuation of which will be influenced by the evolving economic and pandemic environment.

31

Table of Contents
Cash Flows Summary

Operating Activities. Cash flow generated from operations provides us with a significant source of liquidity. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, associate compensation, operations, and occupancy costs.
Cash provided by or used in operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $5.2 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019, primarily driven by an increase in net earnings and changes in working capital. Working capital was impacted by timing of vendor payments, along with higher merchandise inventories to continue to support increasing demand and replenish in-stock levels.
Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities increased by $7.5 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to $7.8 billion of net consideration paid to acquire HD Supply, partially offset by the deferral of certain capital expenditures in fiscal 2020 due to COVID-19. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the HD Supply acquisition.
Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2020 primarily reflected $7.9 billion of net proceeds from long-term debt, offset by $6.5 billion of cash dividends paid, $2.9 billion of repayments of long-term debt, $974 million of net repayments of short-term debt, and $791 million for share repurchases prior to our suspension of share repurchases in March 2020.
Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2019 primarily reflected $7.0 billion for share repurchases, $6.0 billion of cash dividends paid, and $1.4 billion of repayments of short- and long-term debt, offset by $3.4 billion of net proceeds from long-term debt.

32

Table of Contents
Contractual Obligations
Our significant contractual obligations at January 31, 2021 were as follows:

--------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------ ---------------- ----- ------------ ----- ------------ ----------------- ----- ------ ----- - ------
 Payments Due by Period
in millions Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years

Long-term debt – principal payments (1) $ 34,750 $ 1,350 $ 3,250 $ 2,100 $ 28,050
Long-term debt – interest payments (2) 20,581 1,162 2,210 2,114 15,095
Finance lease obligations (3) 3,693 272 565 590 2,266
Operating lease obligations (3) 7,122 955 1,814 1,352 3,001
Purchase obligations (4) 3,778 2,689 1,030 56 3
Unrecognized tax benefits (5) 7 7 — — —
Total $ 69,931 $ 6,435 $ 8,869 $ 6,212 $ 48,415

—————
(1)Excludes finance lease obligations.
(2)Interest payments are calculated at current interest rates, including the impact of active interest rate swaps.
(3)Includes finance and operating lease imputed interest of $927 million and $938 million, respectively.
(4)Purchase obligations include all legally binding contracts such as firm commitments for inventory purchases, media and sponsorship spend, software acquisitions, license commitments, and legally binding service contracts.
(5)Excludes $533 million of noncurrent unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash tax payments.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.

Critical Accounting Policies
Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are both important to the representation of our financial condition and results of operations, and that require significant judgment or use of significant assumptions or complex estimates.
Merchandise Inventories
We value the majority of our inventory under the retail inventory method, using the first-in, first-out method, with the remainder of our inventories valued under a cost method. Under the retail inventory method, inventories are stated at cost, which is determined by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of inventories.
The retail value of our inventory is adjusted as needed to reflect current market conditions. Because these adjustments are based on current prevailing market conditions, the value of our inventory approximates the lower of cost or market. The valuation under the retail inventory method is based on a number of factors such as markups, markdowns, and inventory losses (or shrink). As such, there exists an inherent uncertainty in the final determination of inventory cost and gross profit. We determine markups and markdowns based on the consideration of a variety of factors such as current and anticipated demand, customer preferences and buying trends, age of the merchandise, and weather conditions.
We calculate shrink based on actual inventory losses identified as a result of physical inventory counts during each fiscal period and estimated inventory losses between physical inventory counts. The estimate for shrink occurring in the interim period between physical inventory counts is calculated on a store-specific basis and is primarily based on recent shrink results. Due to changes in operating conditions during fiscal 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we used the results from a sample of stores that were able to conduct physical inventories as a basis for estimating shrink for those stores at which physical inventory counts were temporarily suspended during the year. We believe the sample of stores that were selected for inventory counts in the current year provides a reasonable basis for estimating shrink where a physical inventory count was not performed in fiscal 2020. Historically, the difference between estimated shrink and actual inventory losses has not been material to our annual financial results.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood for a material change in the estimates or assumptions we use to value our inventory under the retail inventory method. We believe that the retail inventory method provides an inventory valuation which approximates cost and results in valuing our inventory at the lower of cost or market.

33

Table of Contents
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We evaluate our long-lived assets each quarter for indicators of potential impairment. Indicators of impairment include current period losses combined with a history of losses, our decision to relocate or close a store or other location before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when changes in other circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation for long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally the individual store level. The assets of a store with indicators of impairment are evaluated for recoverability by comparing their undiscounted future cash flows with their carrying value. Our cash flow projections look several years into the future and include assumptions of variables such as future sales and operating margin growth rates, economic conditions, market competition, and inflation.
If the carrying value is greater than the undiscounted future cash flows, we then measure the asset’s fair value to determine whether an impairment loss should be recognized. If the resulting fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized. We generally base our estimates of fair market value on market appraisals of owned locations and estimates of the amount of potential sublease income and the time required to sublease for leased locations. Impairments of long-lived assets were not material to our consolidated financial statements in fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019 or fiscal 2018.
Uncertain Tax Positions
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in multiple jurisdictions across our global operations. Thus, the determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretations and application of complex tax law. Our provision for income taxes could be affected by many factors, including changes in business operations, changes in tax law, outcomes of income tax audits, changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, the impact of discrete tax items, and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and foreign operations.
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with complexity and thus, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The assessment of uncertain tax positions requires the use of significant judgment in evaluating our tax positions and assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We record the benefits of uncertain tax positions in our financial statements only after determining a more likely than not probability that the uncertain tax positions will be sustained.
Business Combinations
We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control is obtained, all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. The determination of fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities requires estimates and the use of valuation techniques when market value is not readily available and requires a significant amount of management judgment. For the valuation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination, we typically use an income approach. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, customer attrition rates, discount rates and useful lives. The excess of the purchase price over fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. During the measurement period, which is up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings.
Additional Information
For information on accounting pronouncements that have impacted or are expected to materially impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, see Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 4]:
(4)Total contractual obligations exclude our gross unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties totaling $70.0 million as of November 30, 2020, because we are unable to make reasonable estimates as to the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. We are subject to the usual obligations associated with entering into contracts (including option contracts) for the purchase, development and sale of real estate in the routine conduct of our business. Option contracts for the purchase of land generally reduces our financial risk and costs of capital associated with land holdings. At November 30, 2020, we had access to 119,283 homesites through option contracts with third parties and unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2020, we had $414.2 million of non-refundable option deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to certain of these homesites and had posted $87.5 million of letters of credit in lieu of cash deposits under certain land and option contracts. At November 30, 2020, we had letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $1.0 billion (which included the $87.5 million of letters of credit discussed above). These letters of credit are generally posted either with regulatory bodies to guarantee our performance of certain development and construction activities, or in lieu of cash deposits on option contracts, for insurance risks, credit enhancements and as other collateral. Additionally, at November 30, 2020, we had outstanding surety bonds of $3.1 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. Although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all of the development and construction activities are completed. As of November 30, 2020, there were approximately $1.6...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Workfront Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.50 billion in cash consideration. The initial purchase accounting for this transaction has not yet been completed given the short period of time between the acquisition date and issuance of these financial statements. Workfront will be integrated into our Digital Experience reportable segment for financial reporting purposes in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 79  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42 million, which represents the difference between the $55 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $126 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $45 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remain...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other Contractual Commitments We also have $7.50 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2020, which are mostly related to our investments in network infrastructure, consumer hardware, content costs and data center operations. The majority of these commitments are due within five years. Legal and Related Matters Beginning on March 20, 2018, multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed in state and federal courts in the United States and elsewhere against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws, breach of fiduciary duties, and other causes of action in connection with our platform and user data practices as well as 103  the misuse of certain data by a developer that shared such data with third parties in violation of our terms and policies, and seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Beginning on July 27, 2018, two putative class actions were filed in federal court in the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws in connection with the disclosure of our earnings results for the second quarter of 2018 and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the N...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...
