================================================================================
CIK: 0000101829
Company Name: RAYTHEON TECHNOLOGIES CORP
Filing Date: 2021-02-08
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-01 12:21:40
================================================================================

Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Item 1, “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,” and in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.
COVID-19 Pandemic. In March 2020, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization and a national emergency by the U.S. government. Our business and operations and the industries in which we operate have been significantly impacted by public and private sector policies and initiatives in the U.S. and worldwide to address the transmission of COVID-19, such as the imposition of travel restrictions and the adoption of remote working, as well as public sentiments regarding air travel. In particular, the unprecedented decrease in air travel resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting our airline and airframer customers, and their demand for the products and services of our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney segments. Our airline customers have reported significant reductions in fleet utilization, aircraft grounding and unplanned retirements, and have deferred and, in some cases, cancelled, new aircraft deliveries. They have shifted to cash conservation behaviors such as deferring engine maintenance due to lower flight hours and aircraft utilization, requesting extended payment terms, deferring delivery of new aircraft and spare engines and requesting discounts on engine maintenance. Some airline customers have filed for bankruptcy due to their inability to meet their financial obligations.

6

Table of Contents
Additionally, we are seeing purchase order declines in line with publicly communicated aircraft production volumes as original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers delay and cancel orders.
In response to the COVID-19 impacts on our businesses, we have been and continue to actively mitigate costs and adjust production schedules to accommodate these declines in demand. We have also been taking actions to preserve capital and protect the long-term needs of our businesses, including cutting discretionary spending, significantly reducing capital expenditures and research and development spend, suspending our share buyback program in 2020, deferring merit increases and implementing temporary pay reductions, freezing non-essential hiring, repositioning employees to defense work, furloughing employees when needed, and reducing personnel. Our former Raytheon Company businesses, Raytheon Intelligence & Space and Raytheon Missiles & Defense, although experiencing minor impacts, have not experienced significant business disruptions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
For additional information related to the COVID-19 pandemic, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.
Raytheon Merger Integration. We continue to make progress on our integration activities to realize the benefits of the Raytheon Merger, including synergies, cost savings, innovation and enterprise-wide technology sharing opportunities (including technology-driven revenue synergies) and operational efficiencies. We continue to integrate our business processes and systems, identify and mature technology and revenue synergy opportunities, achieve significant cost savings, harmonize our organizational model and policies, as well as promote a strong single-company culture. Numerous aspects of these activities will continue into 2021.
Sales and Customers
We have substantial U.S. government sales, which we conduct through all four of our business segments. Raytheon Intelligence & Space and Raytheon Missiles & Defense together represent a significant portion of those sales. In addition, as a global company, all four of our business segments have substantial international sales.
U.S. Government Sales. Our U.S. government sales were as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- -- ---- ----- -- - - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Sales to the U.S. government (1) $ 25,962 $ 9,094 $ 6,560
Sales to the U.S. government as a percentage of total net sales (1) 46 % 20 % 19 %

(1)    Excludes foreign military sales through the U.S. government. See “Note 22: Segment Financial Data” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
International Sales. Our international sales were as follows:

---------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- -- ---- ------ -- - - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Total international sales (1) $ 22,027 $ 23,952 $ 19,035
Total international sales as a percentage of total net sales (1) 39 % 53 % 55 %

(1)    Includes foreign military sales through the U.S. government. See “Note 22: Segment Financial Data” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
Backlog. Backlog, which is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations (RPO), represents the aggregate amount of total contract transaction price related to firm orders that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied. Segment backlog does not include intercompany backlog. Our backlog by segment was as follows:

----------------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Collins Aerospace Systems $ 23,005 $ 26,260
Pratt & Whitney 78,135 85,183
Raytheon Intelligence & Space 18,676 —
Raytheon Missiles & Defense 29,593 —

Our consolidated RPO also includes the RPO of certain smaller non-reportable segments, which are not reflected in the table above.
Approximately 70% of our consolidated backlog as of December 31, 2020 is not expected to be realized as sales in the next twelve months.
Defense backlog primarily relates to backlog with government customers and is included within our total backlog. At December 31, 2020, our defense backlog was approximately 45% of total backlog.

7

Table of Contents
Competition
All of our businesses are subject to significant competition. Our businesses compete on a variety of factors such as price, delivery schedule, past performance, reliability, customer service, product development, innovation and technology. Many of our competitors have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. Further, some non-U.S. competitors receive government research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products beyond the assistance that may be available to us as a U.S. company. In addition, the competitive landscapes in the industry segments we serve continue to evolve with trends such as increased vertical integration by competitors and customers and the emergence of more commercial competitors on defense development programs.
Our aerospace businesses compete with numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers, customers and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. Customer selections of aircraft engines, components and systems can also have a significant impact on future sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. government’s and other governments’ policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Some competitors may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, and participation in financing arrangements in an effort to compete for the aftermarket associated with these products.
Our defense businesses compete with numerous U.S. and foreign companies in most defense and government electronics, space, information technology and technical services and support segments. We frequently partner on defense programs with our major suppliers, some of whom are, from time to time, competitors on other programs.
People
As a technology and innovation-driven global company, RTC depends on a highly educated and skilled workforce. We seek to advance a diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment for all employees. Our ability to attract, develop and retain the best talent, particularly those with technical, engineering and science backgrounds or experience, is critical for us to execute our strategy and grow our businesses. In addition to providing market competitive compensation and benefits, we invest in our workforce through education, training and development programs. Additionally, we regularly conduct succession planning to ensure that we continue to cultivate the leadership pipeline of talent needed to execute our strategy.
We continuously monitor the hiring, retention and management of our employees by business and function. We regularly conduct confidential surveys to seek feedback from our employees and use those results to improve our workplace. In addition, we have industry-leading health and safety as well as ethics and compliance programs to help mitigate associated employee risks.
As of December 31, 2020, our global employee population consisted of a total of approximately 181,000 employees, including approximately 61,000 engineers and approximately 41,000 employees represented by labor unions and other employee representative bodies. Our employees are located in 71 countries, with approximately 71% of our employees located in the U.S., approximately 4% of our employees located in Canada, approximately 14% of our employees located in Europe, approximately 9% of our employees located in the Asia Pacific region, approximately 1% of our employees located in the Middle East and North Africa region and approximately 1% of our employees located in other regions.
In 2020, our workforce was significantly impacted by the Separation Transactions, the Raytheon Merger and the COVID-19 pandemic.
Upon completion of the Separation Transactions, a total of approximately 122,000 former UTC employees became employees of Carrier and Otis. Further, as a result of the Raytheon Merger, 71,000 Raytheon Company employees joined the 124,000 employees of UTC’s aerospace businesses as RTC employees. Following the Raytheon Merger, we have undertaken a number of actions to reduce our workforce and achieve cost synergies while retaining key talent necessary for RTC’s success. We are working towards a harmonized set of human resources systems and applications, programs and processes that will enable employees to more easily move across our businesses and functions and advance their careers within RTC. We also have engaged in additional succession planning as a result of the changes in our senior management team in connection with the Separation Transactions and the Raytheon Merger.
In addition, we have taken extraordinary measures to protect our workforce in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We implemented extensive safety protocols to support our essential employees required to work onsite. We also enabled approximately 100,000 of our employees to work remotely, and we have sought to ensure that they have the technology, flexible work schedules, dependent care and other services needed during this time to enable them to work effectively from home.

8

Table of Contents
Due to the impact of the pandemic on our businesses in 2020, we have taken a number of actions, including deferring merit increases and implementing temporary pay reductions, freezing non-essential hiring, repositioning employees to defense work and making personnel reductions. In particular, Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney have taken steps to adjust their workforces to align with current and expected demand for their products and services. At Collins Aerospace, 11% of the workforce was impacted by reductions (excluding divestitures), and at Pratt & Whitney, 13% of the workforce was impacted by reductions. Our RIS and RMD businesses units have not been as severely impacted by the pandemic as Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney, and continued to hire in 2020 to support the growth of their businesses.
Research and Development and Operations
Our innovative products and services incorporate advanced technologies. As a result, we invest substantial amounts in research and development (R&D) activities using our own funds and under contractual arrangements with our customers, to enhance existing products and services and develop future technologies to meet our customers’ changing needs and requirements, as well as to address new business opportunities.
We manufacture and service our products in over 240 manufacturing, production or overhaul facilities in approximately 30 countries, including the U.S. In addition, RTC has offices in another 10 countries.
Intellectual Property
We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. We rely on a combination of these rights, along with nondisclosure agreements, IT security systems, internal controls and compliance systems and other measures to protect our intellectual property. The U.S. government and foreign governments have licenses to certain of our intellectual property, including certain patents, which are developed or used in the performance of government contracts. Commercial customers also have licenses to certain of our intellectual property largely in connection with the sale of our products. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of each of our businesses, we do not believe that our business would be materially affected by the expiration of any particular intellectual property right or termination of any particular intellectual property patent license agreement.
Suppliers and Raw Materials
We are dependent upon the availability of materials and major components and the performance of our suppliers and subcontractors. Some of our products require relatively scarce raw materials. We generally have not experienced significant difficulties in procuring the necessary raw materials, components and other supplies for our products, but we may experience supply impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic if its impact on commercial aerospace continues. We are monitoring supplier liquidity and working continuously with our supply base to ensure an adequate source of supply and to reduce costs. We pursue cost reductions through a number of mechanisms, including consolidating our purchases, reducing the number of suppliers, strategic global sourcing and competitions among potential suppliers. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Like other users in the U.S., we are largely dependent upon foreign sources for certain raw materials, such as cobalt, tantalum, chromium, rhenium and nickel. We have a number of ongoing programs to manage this dependence and the accompanying risk, including long-term agreements and the conservation of materials through scrap reclamation and new manufacturing processes. In addition, in some cases, we must comply with specific procurement requirements, which may limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize.
Regulatory Matters
Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation in the industries we serve. We deal with numerous U.S. government agencies and entities, including but not limited to all of the branches of the DoD, the FAA, and the Department of Homeland Security. Similar government authorities exist in all of the countries in which we do business.
U.S. Government Contracts. As previously discussed, the U.S. government is our largest customer, representing a substantial majority of our total defense sales. U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for convenience or for default in the event of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for payments made to us for undelivered goods or services, additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Our U.S. government contracts generally are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which sets forth policies, procedures and requirements for the acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. government; department-specific regulations that implement or supplement the FAR, such as the DoD’s Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS); and other applicable laws and regulations. These regulations impose a broad range of requirements, many of which are unique to government contracting, including various procurement, import and export,

9

Table of Contents
security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, audit and product integrity requirements. A contractor’s failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions to the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, cash withholds on contract payments, forfeiture of profits, and/or the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines, and could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time.
For further discussion of risks related to government contracting, including on-going litigation associated with U.S. government audits and investigations, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Commercial Aerospace Product Regulation. Our commercial aerospace products generally are subject to regulations by the FAA, foreign aviation administration authorities and international regulatory bodies, including on production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. In addition, commercial aerospace regulations and regulator approaches differ across jurisdictions and changes in such regulations and implementing legislation can impact our operations.
Environmental Regulation. Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our international operations, including with respect to the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and wastes. We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our operations and have incurred, and will likely continue to incur, costs associated with environmental compliance and management of sites with pollutants. A portion of these costs are eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services under our contracts with the U.S. government. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions or requirements relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K and “Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles” and “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be deemed ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition giving rise to the violation has been corrected. We also manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the U.S. government. At such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been primarily the responsibility of the U.S. government and we have relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon U.S. government funding to pay such costs.
In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. Changes in environmental and climate change laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including increased energy and raw materials costs.
For further discussion of risks related to environmental matters and other government regulations, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this Form 10-K and “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Other Applicable Regulations. We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. As a result, our businesses and operations are subject to both U.S. and non-U.S. government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export controls, tariffs, investment, exchange controls, anti-corruption, and cash repatriation. Our international sales are also subject to varying currency, political and economic risks.

10

Table of Contents
Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results
This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute “forward-looking statements” under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other information released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management’s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectations,” “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “will,” “should,” “see,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “confident,” “on track” and other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash, share repurchases, tax payments and rates, research and development spending, other measures of financial performance, potential future plans, strategies or transactions, credit ratings and net indebtedness, other anticipated benefits to RTC of the Rockwell Collins acquisition, the Raytheon Merger or the Separation Transactions, including estimated synergies and customer cost savings resulting from the Raytheon Merger and the anticipated benefits and costs of the Separation Transactions and other statements that are not solely historical facts. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation:
•the effect of economic conditions in the industries and countries in which RTC operates in the U.S. and globally and any changes therein, including financial market conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end-customer demand in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel, financial condition of commercial airlines, the impact of pandemic health issues (including COVID-19 and its effects, among other things, on global supply, demand and distribution capabilities as the COVID-19 pandemic continues and results in an increasingly prolonged period of disruption to air travel and commercial activities generally, and significant restrictions and limitations on businesses, particularly within the aerospace and commercial airlines industries), aviation safety concerns, weather conditions and natural disasters, the financial condition of our customers and suppliers, and the risks associated with U.S. government sales (including changes or shifts in defense spending due to budgetary constraints, spending cuts resulting from sequestration or the allocation of funds to governmental responses to COVID-19, a government shutdown, or otherwise, and uncertain funding of programs);
•challenges in the development, production, delivery, support, performance, safety, regulatory compliance and realization of the anticipated benefits (including our expected returns under customer contracts) of advanced technologies and new products and services;
•the scope, nature, impact or timing of acquisition and divestiture activity, including among other things the integration of UTC and Raytheon Company’s businesses and the integration of RTC with other businesses acquired before and after the Raytheon Merger, and realization of synergies and opportunities for growth and innovation and incurrence of related costs and expenses, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the combination of UTC and Raytheon Company’s businesses or other acquired businesses cannot be realized in full or may take longer to realize than expected, or the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of UTC’s businesses with Raytheon Company’s or other acquired businesses will be greater than expected or may not result in the achievement of estimated synergies within the contemplated time frame or at all;
•RTC’s levels of indebtedness, capital spending and research and development spending;
•future availability of credit and factors that may affect such availability, including credit market conditions and our capital structure;
•the timing and scope of future repurchases by RTC of its common stock, which are subject to a number of uncertainties and may be discontinued, accelerated, suspended or delayed at any time due to various factors, including market conditions and the level of other investing activities and uses of cash;
•delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers;
•company and customer-directed cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof (including the potential termination of U.S. government contracts and performance under undefinitized contract actions and the potential inability to recover termination costs);
•new business and investment opportunities;
•the ability to realize the intended benefits of organizational changes;
•the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;
•the outcome of legal proceedings, investigations and other contingencies;
•pension plan assumptions and future contributions;
•the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes;
•the effect of changes in political conditions in the U.S. and other countries in which RTC and its businesses operate,

11

Table of Contents
including the effect of changes in U.S. trade policies, on general market conditions, global trade policies and currency exchange rates in the near term and beyond;
•potential changes in policy positions or priorities that emerge from a new U.S. Administration, including changes in DoD policies or priorities;
•the effect of changes in tax (including U.S. tax reform enacted on December 22, 2017, which is commonly referred to as the TCJA), environmental, regulatory and other laws and regulations (including, among other things, export and import requirements such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations, anti-bribery and anti-corruption requirements, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, industrial cooperation agreement obligations, and procurement and other regulations) in the U.S. and other countries in which RTC and its businesses operate;
•the ability of RTC to retain and hire key personnel and the ability of our personnel to continue to operate our facilities and businesses around the world in light of, among other factors, the COVID-19 pandemic; and
•the intended qualification of (1) the Raytheon Merger as a tax-free reorganization and (2) the Separation Transactions and other internal restructurings as tax-free to UTC and former UTC shareowners, in each case, for U.S. federal income tax purposes
In addition, this Form 10-K includes important information as to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Business Overview,” “Critical Accounting Estimates,” “Results of Operations,” and “Liquidity and Financial Condition,” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K, and the sections titled Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” of this Form 10-K. This Form 10-K also includes important information as to these factors in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the headings “Restructuring Costs,” “Environmental Matters” and “Governmental Matters,” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K, and in the “Business” section under the headings “General,” “Description of Business by Segment” and “Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole.” The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information as to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements is disclosed from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

12

Table of Contents
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by the factors set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.
INDUSTRY RISKS
Our Business May be Adversely Affected by Changes in Global Economic, Capital Market and Political Conditions.
Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions and geopolitical risks, including credit market conditions, levels of consumer and business confidence, commodity prices, exchange rates, potential changes in policy positions or priorities that emerge from a new U.S. Administration due to a variety of factors, levels of government spending and deficits, the threat environment, trade policies, political conditions, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt and other challenges that could affect the global economy. These economic conditions affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. Tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services, and could impact the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, such tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. In addition, geopolitical risks, including changes in the threat environment and political conditions, could affect government priorities, budgets and policies, which could impact sales of defense and other products and services. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, air travel, the financial strength of airlines and business jet operators, and government procurement.
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Has Affected and Will Continue to Affect Our Business, Supply Chains, Operations and the Industries in which We Operate.
The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly increased global economic and demand uncertainty. Public and private sector policies and initiatives in the U.S. and worldwide to address the transmission of COVID-19, such as the imposition of travel restrictions and the adoption of remote working, have impacted the Company’s business, operations and the industries in which we operate. The disruption to air travel and commercial activities generally, and significant restrictions and limitations on businesses, attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global supply, demand and distribution capabilities of the aerospace and commercial airlines industries. In particular, the decrease in air travel resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in the loss of business and leisure passenger traffic and is adversely affecting our airline and airframer customers, and their demand for our products and services. Aircraft manufacturers are reducing production rates due to fewer expected aircraft deliveries and cancelling new airframer programs, and, as a result, demand for our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) products has decreased. In addition, significant declines in aircraft flight hours are resulting in reduced demand for our aftermarket parts and services. Moreover, airlines and airline leasing companies have been deferring, and are expected to continue to defer, maintenance services, which negatively impacts our related revenues. Some airlines have accelerated retirement of certain aircraft, thereby eliminating our continuing services and negatively impacting our aftermarket revenues with respect to those aircraft. Further, a significant portion of our long-term support contracts are driven by actual usage, and decreased usage has, and will continue to, negatively affect our revenues associated with these types of contracts. COVID-19 may also limit the ability of our customers generally to perform, including in making timely payment to us.
In addition, we provide aircraft financing commitments, in the form of debt or lease financing, to commercial aerospace customers. COVID-19 may increase the need for these customers to utilize these financing commitments due to the pandemic’s adverse impact on their businesses or the inability of these customers to obtain more favorable terms from other financing sources. If financing commitments are exercised, the Company will need to divert cash to satisfy them, and these customers may be unable to make payments.
The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and will continue to impact, the Company’s supply chains, including the ability of suppliers and vendors to provide their products and services to the Company. At this time, some of our suppliers have reduced or ceased operations as a result of COVID-19. This supply chain impact could also contribute to performance delays on our customer obligations and increase our costs.
We are continuing to face operational challenges from the need to protect employee health and safety, workplace disruptions, and restrictions on the movement of people and goods, at our own facilities and at customers and suppliers. In addition, continued reduced operations and business disruption – including if significant portions of our workforce or our suppliers’ workforces are unable to work effectively due to facilities closures, illness, quarantines, government actions or other restrictions – could hinder or delay our production capabilities generally, and otherwise impede our ability to perform on our obligations to our customers, and may also result in increased costs to us. The continued spread of COVID-19 may also affect our ability to

13

Table of Contents
hire, develop and retain our talented and diverse workforce, and to maintain our corporate culture. Any costs associated with COVID-19 may not be fully recoverable or adequately covered by insurance.
The COVID-19 pandemic also may materially impact U.S. government sales, including changes or shifts in defense spending due to budgetary constraints, the allocation of funds to governmental responses to COVID-19, a failure to complete the government budget process resulting in a Continuing Resolution (CR) or a government shutdown, or otherwise, and uncertain funding of programs. COVID-19 has impacted and may further impact the broader economies of affected countries, including negatively impacting economic growth, and creating volatility and unpredictability in financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. These impacts and the resulting volatility and disruption to the global capital markets may increase the cost of capital and may adversely impact access to capital for the Company and our suppliers and customers including heightened counter party risks associated with foreign exchange hedging transactions, interest rate swaps, solvency of revolving credit facility banks and the ability to raise capital both short-term and long-term.
Any of these factors, depending on the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The ultimate financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is unknown at this time. The extent of such impact depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted in the short- or long-term, including new information which may emerge concerning the scope, severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as any worsening of the pandemic, the effect of mutating strains and whether additional outbreaks of the pandemic will continue to occur, actions to contain the pandemic’s spread or treat its impact, timing of the availability of vaccines, and their distribution, acceptance and efficacy, and governmental, business and individual personal actions taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions and limitations on travel and transportation, and changes in leisure and business travel patterns and work environments) among others. Some of these actions and related impacts may be trends that continue in the future even after the pandemic no longer poses a significant public health risk.
Changes in U.S. Government Defense Spending Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Position, Results of Operations, Liquidity and Overall Business.
U.S. government sales constitute a significant portion of our consolidated sales. Our U.S. government revenues largely result from contracts awarded under various U.S. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), and a broad range of programs with the U.S. Intelligence Community and other departments and agencies. Changes in U.S. government defense spending for various reasons, including as a result of potential changes in policy positions or priorities which may result from the recent U.S. presidential and congressional election, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our programs are subject to U.S. government policies, budget decisions and appropriation processes which are driven by numerous factors including: (1) geopolitical events; (2) macroeconomic conditions; and (3) the ability of the U.S. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation. In previous years the U.S. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both governmental shut-downs and CRs providing only enough funds for U.S. government agencies to continue operating at prior-year levels. Further, if the U.S. government debt ceiling is not raised and the national debt reaches the statutory debt ceiling, the U.S. government could default on its debts. As a result, U.S. government defense spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes and are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. Significant changes in U.S. government defense spending or changes in U.S. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
We Face Risks Relating to Our U.S. Government Contracts and the Mix of Our U.S. Government Contracts and Programs that Could Negatively Impact our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, Liquidity and Overall Business.
The termination of one or more of our contracts, or the occurrence of performance delays, cost overruns, product failures, materials or components shortages, or contract definitization delays, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
U.S. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the U.S. government’s convenience or for default based on performance. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for work accepted by the U.S. government. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. In addition, we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor on some contracts. In these arrangements, the U.S. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise,

14

Table of Contents
without regard to our performance as a subcontractor. Further, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new U.S. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of the termination of any of our contracts.
In addition, because the funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations made on a fiscal year basis even for multi-year programs, programs are often only partially funded initially and may not continue to be funded in future years. Appropriation bills may be delayed, which may result in delays to funding, the collection of receivables and our contract performance due to lack of authorized funds to procure related products and services. Under certain circumstances, we may use our own funds to meet our customer’s desired delivery dates or other requirements, but we may not be reimbursed. Further, if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, reduced or delayed, the U.S. government may terminate for convenience our contract or subcontract under that program.
Our U.S. government contracts typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. New technologies may be untested or unproven and in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. As a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns or product failures, and could divert our attention or resources from other projects. Our failure to execute effectively on our development programs could impact our future sales opportunities. Additionally, in order to win certain U.S. government contracts, we may be required to invest in development prior to award as our customers demand more mature and proven solutions. These additional investment amounts may not be worthwhile if we are not chosen for new contract awards.
Our U.S. government contracts are typically either fixed-priced contracts or cost reimbursement contracts. Fixed-price contracts are predominantly either firm fixed-price (FFP) contracts or fixed-price incentive (FPI) contracts. Under FFP contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and we therefore carry the burden of any cost overruns. Under FPI contracts, we generally share with the U.S. government savings for cost underruns less than target costs and expenses for cost overruns exceeding target costs up to a negotiated ceiling price. We carry the entire burden of cost overruns exceeding the ceiling price amount under FPI contracts. Under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed or performance-based fee, but we are generally not reimbursed for unauthorized costs exceeding a cost ceiling amount or costs not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations. If we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our profitability could be negatively affected, particularly under fixed-price development contracts. We may also experience cost underruns which would reduce contract value and related expected revenues, and we may be unable to expand the contract scope or secure additional work to offset the resulting lost revenues. While contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost reimbursable, they can be FFP or FPI, which can significantly increase our risk of a potential negative profit adjustment, as development contracts by nature involve elements that have not been undertaken before and, thus, are highly subject to future unexpected cost growth. In addition, other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production, which includes starting and stabilizing a manufacturing and test line while the final design is still being validated.
Over the past several years, the DoD has increased its use of Other Transaction Authority (OTA) contracts, under which it awards research and development work without all of the procurement requirements that typically apply to DoD contracts, including justification of sole source awards. For example, Raytheon Company was awarded an OTA contract for the Lower Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor (LTAMDS) in late 2019. OTAs may use fixed-price contracts during all phases of the contract, or mandated contract cost sharing (e.g., one-third of program costs). They may also require non-traditional subcontractor participation and impose other requirements that differ from our other DoD contracts. If we are unable to perform on our OTA contracts, including any applicable non-traditional requirements, it could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
From time to time, we may begin performance under an undefinitized contract action with a not-to-exceed price prior to completing contract negotiations in order to support U.S. government priorities. Uncertainties in final contract price, specifications and terms, or loss of negotiating leverage associated with particularly long delays in contract definitization, may negatively affect our profitability.
In addition, as discussed more fully below, our U.S. government contracts also require us to comply with extensive and evolving procurement rules and regulations and subject us to potential U.S. government audits, investigations, and disputes.
We are also involved in programs that are classified by the U.S. government, which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims.

15

Table of Contents
Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of Operations and Liquidity May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Economic Conditions, Political Factors, Trade Policies, Sales Methods, and Changes in Local Government Regulation.
We conduct our business on a global basis, with a significant portion of sales derived from international operations, including U.S. export sales. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand and reported profits in our non-U.S. operations where transactions may be denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. As a result, our operating margins also may be negatively impacted by worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross-border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may also give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. Dollars. A strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.
In our commercial aerospace businesses, the majority of our sales are, consistent with established industry practice, transacted in U.S. Dollars, while the majority of costs at locations outside the U.S. are incurred in the applicable local currency (principally the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the British Pound, and the Polish Zloty). For operating units with U.S. Dollar sales and local currency costs, there is foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. In particular, Pratt & Whitney Canada is especially susceptible to fluctuations in exchange rates for this reason. To manage certain exposures, we employ long-term hedging strategies associated with U.S. Dollar sales.
Our international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, capital controls, employment regulations, and cash repatriation. Government policies on international trade and investments such as import quotas, capital controls, taxes or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or regional trade blocs, can affect demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to manufacture or sell products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs, or the renegotiation of existing trade agreements by the U.S. or by countries where we sell large quantities of products and services or procure supplies and other materials incorporated into our products, including in connection with the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union, could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing geopolitical uncertainty and trends such as populism and economic nationalism could negatively impact us. For example, a government’s adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies, such as tariffs, could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to regional and local political and economic factors, including volatility in energy prices, changes in threat environments and geopolitical uncertainties, and changes in U.S. foreign policy. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs and contract laws and regulations, and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the U.S. or that may be interpreted differently in foreign countries.
As discussed more fully below, our international sales also require us to comply with U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and other anti-corruption, sanctions, and export laws and regulations. In addition, in certain foreign countries, our businesses engage non-employee sales representatives. From time to time, we have disputes with such representatives regarding claimed commissions and other matters which can result in litigation or arbitration if not resolved amicably.
We conduct business in certain countries primarily for our commercial aerospace businesses including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Morocco, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Turkey, Ukraine and countries in the Middle East and Central Asia, that carry high levels of currency, political, compliance and economic risk. We expect that sales to these and other emerging market customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our commercial aerospace sales in the long term as our businesses evolve and as these and other developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our products, particularly our aerospace products. Operations in emerging market countries can present many risks, including cultural differences (such as employment and business practices), volatility in gross domestic product, economic and government instability (particularly in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other Middle East countries), the imposition of exchange and capital controls, and the risks associated with exporting components manufactured in those countries for incorporation into finished products completed in other countries. While these factors and their impact are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or

16

Table of Contents
financial condition. Of note, in 2019 the U.S. government suspended Turkey’s participation in the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program because Turkey accepted delivery of the Russian-built S-400 air and missile defense system. The U.S. has imposed, and may impose additional, sanctions on Turkey as a result of this or other political disputes. Turkish companies supply components, some of which are sole-sourced, to our aerospace businesses for commercial and military engines and aerospace products, as well as to our defense businesses. Depending upon the scope and timing of U.S. sanctions on Turkey and potential reciprocal actions, if any, such sanctions or actions could impact our sources of supply and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. In addition, in October 2020, the People’s Republic of China (China) announced that it may sanction RTC in connection with a possible Foreign Military Sale to Taiwan of six MS-110 Reconnaissance Pods and related equipment manufactured by Collins Aerospace. Foreign Military Sales are government-to-government transactions that are initiated by, and carried out at the direction of, the U.S. government. To date, the Chinese government has not imposed sanctions on RTC or indicated the nature or timing of any future potential sanctions or other actions. If China were to impose sanctions or take other regulatory action against RTC, our suppliers, teammates or partners, it could potentially disrupt our business operations. The impact of potential sanctions or other actions by China cannot be determined at this time. From time to time, our businesses have sold, and are expected to sell in the future additional defense products to Taiwan and we are unable to determine the potential impact, if any, of any future sanctions or other actions by China in response to these sales.
Our international business faces substantial competition from both U.S. companies and foreign companies. In some instances, foreign companies may be owned by foreign governments or may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments that may not be available to U.S. companies or our foreign subsidiaries. In addition, foreign companies may be subject to fewer restrictions on technology transfer than U.S. companies.
Our international contracts, particularly for sales of defense products and services, may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific local purchases, manufacturing agreements, technology transfer agreements or financial support obligations, sometimes in the form of either offset obligations or in-country industrial participation (ICIP) agreements. Approvals of offset or ICIP thresholds and requirements may be subjective and time-consuming and may delay contract awards. Offset requirements may, in certain countries, include the creation of a joint venture with a local company that may control the venture. In addition, certain customers’ demands are increasing for greater offset or ICIP commitment levels, higher-value content, including the transfer of technologies and capabilities, and local production and economic development.
Our use of and association with third-party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs exposes us to various challenges including risks associated with the FCPA and local antibribery laws and regulations. As a result of the above factors, we could experience financial penalties and award and funding delays on international programs, our profitability on these programs could be negatively affected, and we could incur losses on these programs that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the Condition of the Aerospace Industry.
Our aerospace businesses constitute a substantial portion of our financial results, and the performance of those businesses is directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aerospace industry, which is cyclical in nature. Capital spending and demand for aircraft engines, aerospace products and component aftermarket parts and services by commercial airlines, aircraft operators and aircraft manufacturers are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline profits, airline consolidation, bankruptcies, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, corporate profitability, cost reduction efforts and remaining performance obligations levels. In particular, tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely financial distress or bankruptcy. Any of these factors could reduce the sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. Other factors, including future terrorist actions, aviation safety concerns, pandemic health issues or major natural disasters, could also dramatically reduce the demand for commercial air travel, which could negatively impact the sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and continues to impact, our business, as described above.
Additionally, because a substantial portion of product deliveries to commercial aerospace customers are scheduled for delivery in 2021 and beyond, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled. At times, our aerospace businesses also enter into firm fixed-price or cost-share development contracts, which may require us to bear cost overruns related to unforeseen technical and design challenges that arise during the development and early production stages of the program. In addition, our aerospace businesses face intense competition from domestic and

17

Table of Contents
foreign manufacturers of new equipment, and approved non-OEM aftermarket spare parts and repairs. Spare parts sales and aftermarket service trends are affected by similar factors, including usage, pricing, technological improvements, regulatory changes and the retirement of older aircraft. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing products in these business segments to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is ready to enter into service. A reduction in spending in the commercial aviation industry could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New Products and Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits Initially Anticipated; Competition May Reduce Our Revenues and Segment Share and Limit Our Future Opportunities.
We seek to achieve growth through the design, development, production, sale and support of innovative commercial aerospace and defense systems and products that incorporate advanced technologies. The product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly, and we invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts to pursue advancements in a wide range of technologies, products and services.
Of particular note, Pratt & Whitney is currently producing and delivering the PW1000G Geared Turbofan engine to power various aircraft, including the A320neo family of aircraft. The level of orders received for the Geared Turbofan family of engines, coupled with a requirement to achieve mature production levels in a very short time frame, require significant additional manufacturing and supply chain capacity. If any of our production ramp-up efforts are delayed, if suppliers cannot timely deliver or perform to our standards, and/or if we identify or experience issues with in-service engines, we may not meet customers’ delivery schedules, which could result in material additional costs, including liquidated damages or other liabilities that could be assessed under existing contracts.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our technological advancements depends on a variety of factors, including meeting development, production, certification and regulatory approval schedules; receiving regulatory approvals; execution of internal and external performance plans; availability of supplier and internally produced parts and materials; performance of suppliers and subcontractors; availability of supplier and internal facility capacity to perform maintenance, repair and overhaul services on our products; hiring and training of qualified personnel; achieving cost and production efficiencies; identification of emerging technological trends for our target end-customers; validation of innovative technologies; risks associated with the development of complex software; the level of customer interest in new technologies and products; and customer acceptance of products we manufacture or that incorporate technologies we develop. For example, our customers manufacture end products and larger aerospace systems that incorporate certain of our aerospace products. These systems and end products may also incorporate additional technologies manufactured by third parties and involve additional risks and uncertainties. As a result, the performance and industry acceptance of these larger systems and end products could affect the level of customer interest in and acceptance of our products in the marketplace.
In addition, many of our products must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards in a variety of jurisdictions. The evolving nature of these standards, along with the long duration of development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding program profitability, particularly with our aircraft engine products.
Development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and these efforts may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the industries for our products or products that incorporate our technologies may not develop or grow as we anticipate. We or our customers, suppliers or subcontractors may encounter difficulties in developing and producing new products and services, and may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated or may otherwise suffer significant adverse financial consequences. Due to the design complexity of our products or those of our customers or third party manufacturers that incorporate our products into theirs or our customers’ products, we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products or we may experience the suspension of production after these products enter into service due to safety concerns. Delays and/or suspension of production could result in increased development costs or deflect resources from other projects. In particular, we cannot predict with certainty whether, when and in what quantities our aerospace businesses will produce and sell aircraft engines, aircraft systems and components, and other products currently in development, pending required certifications or after entry into service.
We operate in highly competitive industries and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing, marketing and servicing capabilities than we do. Our contracts are typically awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other items, the cost to provide the products and services. To generate an acceptable return on our investment in these contracts, we must be able to accurately estimate our costs to provide the services and deliver the products and to be able to complete the contracts in a timely manner. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. Some of our

18

Table of Contents
contracts provide for liquidated damages in the event that we are unable to perform and deliver in accordance with the contractual specifications and schedule. In addition, we may face customer-directed cost reduction targets that could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our contracts if these targets are not achieved when required. Moreover, we have seen highly competitive pricing, in which a bidder may anticipate making a substantial investment in a program in order to win the work. In addition, with respect to DoD awards in particular, bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards are frequent. Generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned and require a re-bid of the contract. Highly competitive activity within the commercial aerospace industry has included substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, and participation in financing arrangements, in order to secure both new engine business and the aftermarket revenues associated with these products.
Furthermore, our competitors, including our customers, may develop competing technologies which gain industry acceptance in advance of or instead of our products. The possibility also exists that our competitors or customers might develop new technologies or offerings that might cause our existing technologies and offerings to become obsolete and cause disruption to our business. In addition, the possibility exists that competitors or customers will develop aftermarket services and aftermarket parts for our products that attract customers and adversely impact our return on investment on new products. We also anticipate companies continuing to enhance their competitive position against our defense businesses as a result of continued domestic and cross-border defense industry consolidation and the expansion of competitors’ capabilities throughout the supply chain through vertical integration. We are also facing heightened competition domestically and internationally from foreign and multinational firms. Additionally, some customers, including the DoD, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors in our core businesses, we may experience declines in revenues and industry segment share.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
OPERATIONAL RISKS
We Use a Variety of Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Contract Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products.
Our reliance on U.S. and non-U.S. suppliers (including third-party manufacturing suppliers, subcontractors and service providers) and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials and services. In many instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing, services support or assembly, or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Our defense businesses are subject to specific procurement requirements that limit the types of materials they use, which may further limit the suppliers and subcontractors they may utilize. They also must require suppliers to comply with various DoD cybersecurity requirements. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues (such as issues with defects or fraudulent parts), closing, bankruptcy or financial difficulties of our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, including as a result of war, natural disaster, health pandemic or other business continuity events, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and continues to impact, our supply chain, as described above.
Exports and Imports of Certain of Our Products Are Subject to Various Export Control, Sanctions and Import Regulations and May Require Authorization From the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Justice or Regulatory Agencies of Other Countries.
We must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export and import of products, services and technology from and into the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S., these laws and regulations include, among others, the EAR administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the ITAR administered by the U.S. Department of State, embargoes and sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and import regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Department of Justice. Certain of our products, services and technologies have military or strategic applications and are on the U.S. Munitions List of the ITAR and the

19

Table of Contents
Commerce Control List of the EAR or are otherwise subject to the EAR, or on the U.S. Munitions Import List and we are required to obtain licenses and authorizations from the cognizant U.S. government agencies before selling these products outside of the U.S. or importing these products into the U.S. U.S. foreign policy or foreign policy of other licensing jurisdictions may affect the licensing process or otherwise prevent us from engaging in business dealings with certain individuals, entities or countries. Any failure by us, our customers or our suppliers to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal penalties, fines, seizure of our products, adverse publicity, restrictions on our ability to export or import our products, or the suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. Moreover, any changes in export control, sanctions or import regulations may further restrict the export of our products or services, and the possibility of such changes requires constant monitoring to ensure we remain compliant. Our ability to obtain required licenses and authorizations on a timely basis or at all is subject to risks and uncertainties, including changing U.S. government foreign policies or laws, delays in Congressional action, or geopolitical and other factors. If we are not successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, our sales relating to those approvals may be prevented or delayed, and revenue and profit previously recognized may be reversed. Any restrictions on the export or import of our products or product lines could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
Our Products Must Meet or Exceed Stringent Performance and Reliability Standards.
Our products and services involve advanced technologies in highly sophisticated products. The impact of a catastrophic product failure or similar event, particularly in our commercial aerospace business, could be significant. Actual or perceived design or production issues can result in significant reputational harm to our business, in addition to direct warranty, maintenance and other costs that may arise. A significant product issue resulting in injuries or death, aircraft grounding or similar systemic consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. We may also incur increased costs, delayed payments or lost equipment or services revenue in connection with a significant issue with a third party’s product with which our products are integrated. There can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process or product failures and other problems, including through manufacturing or design defects, process or other failures of contractors or third-party suppliers, cyber-attacks or other intentional acts, any of which could result in potential product, safety, quality, regulatory or environmental risks. If our products do not perform as intended, including with respect to safety or reliability, the possible consequences include product recalls and product liability claims, significant financial losses, including fines, as well as a diversion of management attention and reputational damage that could reduce demand for our products and services. Further, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all related costs and we may not otherwise be fully indemnified for them.
We Depend On the Recruitment and Retention of Qualified Personnel, and Our Failure to Attract, Train and Retain Such Personnel and to Maintain our Corporate Culture and High Ethical Standards Could Seriously Harm Our Business.
Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key technical personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel, and the hiring of new qualified technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Our defense business in particular requires qualified personnel with security clearances due to our classified programs. Competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting, training or retaining qualified personnel with the requisite skills or security clearances. In addition, certain existing personnel may be required to receive various security clearances and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. Necessary security clearances may be delayed, which may impact our ability to perform on our U.S. government contracts. Further, we have experienced and may continue to experience personnel reductions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact on our business and a significant percentage of our current workforce is nearing or eligible for retirement. To the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. In addition, new qualified personnel may have different expectations from our current workforce, which could result in difficulties attracting and retaining new employees. Loss of key employees, failure to attract new qualified employees or adequately train them, delays in receiving required security clearances, or delays in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business.
We believe that a critical element of our ability to successfully attract, train and retain qualified personnel is our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, collaboration and a focus on execution, all in an environment of high ethical standards. Our global operations may present challenges in maintaining these important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to maintain our corporate culture could negatively impact our ability to attract, train and retain essential qualified personnel who are vital to our business. Further, we rely on our key personnel to lead with integrity and to meet our high ethical standards that promote excellent performance and cultivate diversity, equity and inclusion. To the extent any of our key personnel were to behave in a way that is inconsistent with our values, including with respect to product safety or quality, legal or regulatory compliance, financial reporting or people management, we could experience a materially adverse impact to our reputation and our operating results.

20

Table of Contents
Our Business and Financial Performance May Be Adversely Affected By Cyber-attacks on Information Technology Infrastructure and Products
Our business may be impacted by disruptions to our own or third-party information technology (IT) infrastructure, which could result from, among other causes, cyber-attacks on or failures of such infrastructure or compromises to its physical security. We also encounter attempts to infiltrate our products and services and sabotage or disable their use by our customers.
Cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, both attacks on our IT infrastructure and attacks on the IT infrastructure of our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties with whom we do business routinely, both on premises and in the cloud, attempting to gain unauthorized access to our confidential or other proprietary information, classified information, or information relating to our employees, customers and other third parties, or to disrupt our systems or the systems of third parties. Cybersecurity threats also include attacks targeting the security, integrity and/or availability of the hardware, software and information installed, stored or transmitted in our products, including after the purchase of those products and when they are incorporated into third-party products, facilities or infrastructure, and insider threat attacks. Such attacks could disrupt our systems or those of third parties (including mission critical systems), impact business operations, result in unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corrupt our data or that of third parties. We have experienced cyber-based attacks, and due to the evolving threat landscape, may continue to experience them going forward, potentially with more frequency. The threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries, including nation states, which target us and other defense contractors. We continue to make investments and adopt measures designed to enhance our protection, detection, response, and recovery capabilities, and to mitigate potential risks to our technology, products, services and operations from potential cybersecurity threats. However, given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cyber-attacks, it is possible that we are unable to prevent cyber attacks, that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period, that we may be unsuccessful in defending an attack against those vulnerabilities, or that we may otherwise be unable to mitigate customer losses and other potential consequences of these attacks. In addition, some products and services that we provide to customers, particularly those related to public security, may raise potential liabilities related to privacy and intellectual property. In some cases we must rely on the safeguards put in place by our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties to protect against and report cyber threats. We could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromise of confidential information, intellectual property or otherwise protected information, misappropriation, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our or third-party systems, networks or products, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business, or potential liability, penalties, fines and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Some of these risks may be heightened due to the Company and its suppliers and other third parties operating with a significant number of employees working remotely. Due to the evolving nature of such risks, the impact of any potential incident cannot be predicted. Further, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all related costs and we may not otherwise be fully indemnified for them.
Our Business and Financial Performance May Be Adversely Affected By Threats to Our Physical Security and Other Events Outside Our Control
We could encounter threats to our physical security, including our facilities and personnel, and threats from terrorism, workplace violence or similar acts, any of which could disrupt our business. In addition, our business, and the businesses of our suppliers, subcontractors and service providers and customers, could be disrupted by public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, damaging weather or other acts of nature, or other events outside of our control. Our business may also be impacted by cyber-attacks on IT infrastructure and products, as discussed above. In addition, our business has been, and continues to be, impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, as discussed above. Any such business disruption could subject us to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, financial losses from remedial actions, the diversion of management’s attention and resources, or loss of business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The impact of any such business disruption is difficult to predict.
We Depend On Our Intellectual Property, and Have Access to Certain Intellectual Property and Information of Our Customers and Suppliers; Infringement or Failure to Protect Our Intellectual Property Could Adversely Affect Our Future Growth and Success.
We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements, IT security systems, internal controls and compliance systems and other measures to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements, confidentiality obligations in contracts, IT security systems and other measures to protect certain customer and supplier information and intellectual property that we have in our possession or to which we have access. The U.S. government and foreign governments have licenses under certain of our intellectual property, including certain patents, which are developed

21

Table of Contents
or used in performance of government contracts. Governments may use or authorize others (including our competitors) to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. Governments may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights, which could reduce our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and to compete. In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. Intellectual property obtained from third parties is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. In addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. In other instances, our ability to procure and perform government contracts requires us to obtain certain rights in the intellectual property of others through government grants. Governments may deny us the right to obtain such rights in the intellectual property of others, which may affect our ability to perform government contracts.
Our efforts to protect intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the U.S. In addition, we may be the target of competitor or other third-party patent enforcement actions seeking substantial monetary damages or seeking to prevent our sale and marketing of certain of our products or services. Our competitive position also may be adversely impacted by limitations on our ability to obtain possession of, and ownership of necessary licenses concerning, data important to the development or provision of our products or service offerings, or by limitations on our ability to restrict the use by others of data related to our products or services. We may also be subject to disruptions, losses and liability resulting from various cybersecurity attacks or information technology failures, as described above. Any of these events or factors could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
LEGAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISKS
As a U.S. Government Contractor, We are Subject to Risks Relating to U.S. Government Audits, Investigations, and Disputes.
We are subject to U.S. government investigations relating to our U.S. government contracts. Such U.S. government investigations often take years to complete and could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines, treble and other damages, forfeitures, restitution or penalties, or could lead to suspension or debarment of U.S. government contracting or of export privileges. For instance, if we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing in connection with a U.S. government investigation (including fraud, or violation of certain environmental or export laws, as further described below), the U.S. government could suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could fine and debar us from new U.S. government contracting for a period generally not to exceed three years and could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud. We also could suffer reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us, even if such allegations are later determined to be unsubstantiated.
Further, our U.S. government contracts are subject to audit and we have received audit reports recommending the reduction of certain contract prices because, for example, cost or pricing data disclosures or cost accounting practices used to price and negotiate those contracts may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports recommend that certain payments be repaid, delayed, or withheld, and may involve substantial amounts, which could, if the audit reports’ theories were to prevail in litigation, also have future impacts such as increasing the costs absorbed by our commercial businesses. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and, in some cases, continue to negotiate and/or litigate. We may be, and have been, required to make payments into escrow of disputed liabilities while the related litigation is pending. If the litigation is resolved in our favor, any such payments will be returned to us with interest. The Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) also review the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies, including our accounting, purchasing, government property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. Our final allowable incurred costs for each year are subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the U.S. government, including DCMA claims to recover payments for alleged noncompliance with cost accounting standards. In some cases, the Department of Justice (DOJ) has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities in our costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. An adverse outcome of any audit or investigation could result in civil and criminal penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if allegations of impropriety were made against

22

Table of Contents
us, we could suffer serious reputational harm, which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.
We Are Subject to Litigation, Environmental, Product Safety and Reliability, Anti-Corruption and Other Legal and Compliance Risks.
We are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks. These risks relate to, among other things, product safety and reliability, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, contract-related claims, government contracts, taxes, environmental matters, export control, employment matters, competition laws and laws governing improper business practices. We or one of our businesses could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such matters. If convicted or found liable, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, or other damages (in certain cases, treble damages). As discussed above, product recalls and product liability and warranty claims (including claims related to the safety or reliability of our products) also can result in significant damages and costs, including fines, as well as negative publicity, a diversion of management attention and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services. As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and in other countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher expenses. Uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights. Changes in environmental and climate change laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including increased energy and raw materials costs. Climate-related events also could disrupt our businesses and require us to incur additional costs.
We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our operations. As a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damage that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. Personal injury lawsuits may involve individual and purported class actions alleging that contaminants originating from our current or former products or operating facilities caused or contributed to medical conditions, including cancers incurred by employees, former employees, third-parties’ employees or residents in the area, and environmental damage or diminution of real estate values. For example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have in the past been named as a defendant in related “toxic tort” claims. We are also subject to laws and regulations that: (1) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (2) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including U.S. government-owned facilities we manage); and (3) require maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions, decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases, and/or reduce the risks of injury to people. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and other expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. A criminal violation of certain U.S. environmental statutes such as the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act could result in suspension, debarment or disqualification by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). A facility determined to be in violation of the criminal provisions of these statutes can be prohibited from performing any U.S. government contract work until the violation has been corrected and the EPA approves the reinstatement of the facility. Even in litigation where we believe our liability is remote, there is a risk that a negative finding or decision in a matter involving multiple plaintiffs or a purported class action could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, in particular with respect to environmental claims in regions where we have, or previously had, significant operations. In addition, new laws, regulations, or governmental policies, sudden changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
In addition, the FCPA and other anti-bribery and -corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to U.S. and non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. These laws apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. U.S. companies also may be held liable for actions taken by strategic or local partners or representatives. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments. Certain of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to the FCPA and other anti-bribery and -corruption laws, including the anti-bribery and -corruption laws of non-U.S. countries. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery and -corruption laws. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to ensure lawful conduct, which include training and internal control policies, these measures may not always prevent violations of the FCPA or similar laws. We have been subject to regulatory investigations for alleged violations of anti-bribery and -corruption laws, and could be subject to such investigations in the future, which could result in criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes or other remedial actions. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, cause

23

Table of Contents
reputational harm, involve significant management attention and result in a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
Cybersecurity and data privacy and protection laws and regulations are evolving and present increasing compliance challenges, which may increase our costs, affect our competitiveness, cause reputational harm, and expose us to substantial fines or other penalties.
ACCOUNTING, TAX AND INSURANCE RELATED RISKS
We Use Estimates in Accounting For Many of Our Programs, and Changes in our Estimates Could Adversely Affect Our Future Financial Results.
Accounting for long-term contracts and related assets requires estimates and judgments related to our progress toward completion and the long-term performance on the contract. Significant judgments include potential risks associated with the ability and cost to achieve program schedule, including customer-directed delays or reductions in scheduled deliveries, and technical and other specific contract requirements including customer activity levels and variable consideration based upon that activity. Due to the size and long-term nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding contract revenue and cost (such as estimates of variable consideration, including award fees and penalties), including with respect to: (1) labor productivity and availability; (2) the complexity and scope of the work to be performed; (3) the availability and cost of materials; (4) the length of time to complete the performance obligation; (5) execution by our subcontractors; (6) the availability and timing of funding from our customer; (7) overhead cost rates; and (8) current and past service cost and frequency driven by estimated aircraft and engine utilization and estimated useful lives of components, among other variables. Because of the significance of management’s judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition.
Significant Changes in Key Estimates and Assumptions, Such as Discount Rates and Assumed Long-term Return on Plan Assets (ROA), as well as Our Actual Investment Returns on Our Pension Plan Assets and Other Actuarial Factors, Could Affect Our Earnings, Equity and Pension Contributions in Future Periods.
We must determine our pension and other postretirement benefit (PRB) plans’ expense or income, which involves significant judgment particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term ROA and other actuarial assumptions. The discount rate assumption is set annually and we determine on an annual basis whether it is appropriate to change our long-term ROA assumption. These assumptions and other actuarial assumptions may change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances. Changes in our assumptions could result in negative changes to our pension and PRB plans’ expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans, which would negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term ROA assumption would result in a change to our pension and PRB plans’ expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. Our plan assets are invested in accordance with our investment management objectives and are subject to market volatility and other conditions. The differences may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions.
Additional Tax Expense or Additional Tax Exposures Could Affect Our Future Profitability.
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes and conflicts in related interpretations and other tax guidance, and fluctuations in taxable income could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various tax authorities. In addition to ongoing examinations, there could be additional examinations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing examinations could be expanded. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional examinations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our competitive position, cash flows, results of operation or financial condition may be affected by the outcome of examinations, proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty.

24

Table of Contents
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Represent a Significant Portion of Our Assets, and Any Impairment of These Assets Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, including amounts added related to the Raytheon Merger. Our goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are subject to an impairment test annually and are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. In the event of an impairment any excess of the carrying value of these assets over the fair value must be written off in the period of determination. Finite-lived intangible assets are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill and intangible assets based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen events that could adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an impairment evaluation. Future determinations of significant impairments of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.
We Face Certain Significant Risk Exposures and Potential Liabilities That May Not Be Adequately Covered By Indemnity or Insurance.
A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced aerospace, defense and technology systems and products. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers through contractual provisions, and we may obtain limitations of liability and additional defenses for various reasons including the qualification of our products and services by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) under the SAFETY Act provisions of the Homeland Security Act of 2002. The insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business, which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Any accident, failure of, or defect in our products and services, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. It could also affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future.
STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS RISKS
We May Be Unable to Realize Expected Benefits From Our Cost Reduction and Restructuring Efforts and Our Profitability May Be Hurt or Our Business Otherwise Might Be Adversely Affected.
In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions, global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to generate operating expense savings through reductions in direct and indirect expenses as well as improved efficiencies. We may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any future restructuring activities, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include unfavorable political responses to such actions, unforeseen delays in the implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees or work stoppages, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, or have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
We May Be Unable to Successfully Integrate the Legacy Businesses of United Technologies Corporation (UTC) and Raytheon and Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Raytheon Merger.
The success of the Raytheon Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate UTC and Raytheon Company’s legacy businesses, and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, cost savings, innovation and technological opportunities (including technology-driven revenue synergies) and operational efficiencies from the Raytheon Merger in a manner that does not materially disrupt existing customer, supplier and employee relations and does not result in decreased revenues due to losses of, or decreases in orders by, customers.
The integration of the two companies may result in material challenges, including, without limitation:
•managing a larger, more complex combined aerospace and defense business;
•maintaining employee morale, retaining key management and other employees, and managing corporate culture;
•retaining existing business and operational relationships, including customers, suppliers and employees and other counterparties, as may be impacted by contracts containing consent and/or other provisions that may be triggered by the Raytheon Merger, and attracting new business and operational relationships;

25

Table of Contents
•the diversion of management’s attention as a result of devoting attention to matters relating to the Raytheon Merger and/or the Separation and the Distributions following their consummation;
•consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations, including unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and
•coordinating geographically separate organizations
The impact and extent of these challenges is uncertain and many of them have been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Any one of them could result in delays, increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, reduced expected cash generation, and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
In addition, as a result of the Separation Transactions and Distributions, we are required to provide transition services to each of Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier) and Otis Worldwide Corporation (Otis). These services may require significant amounts of personnel and management time, attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations during this critical period of our integration.
In addition, we must continue to manage the integration of other companies, assets and businesses, including the integration of Rockwell Collins, which UTC acquired on November 26, 2018. These ongoing (and future) integrations by each of UTC and Raytheon may increase the complexity of, and challenges associated with, the integration of UTC and Raytheon Company’s legacy businesses, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Raytheon Merger fully, or within the anticipated time frame.
The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized on a timely basis. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, many of the expenses that may be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately, and changes to the estimates could affect the total amount or timing of integration expenses. These expenses could exceed benefits expected to be realized in connection with the Raytheon Merger.
We May Not Be Able to Engage in Desirable Capital-Raising or Strategic Transactions.
Under current U.S. federal income tax law, a spin-off that otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment can be rendered taxable to the parent corporation and its stockholders as a result of certain post-spin-off transactions, including certain acquisitions of shares or assets of the parent corporation. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the Distributions, we may be limited in our ability to pursue certain equity issuances, strategic transactions, repurchases, or other transactions (including the certain dispositions of assets) that we may otherwise believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business.
If Either Distribution, Together with Certain Related Transactions, Were to Fail to Qualify as a Transaction that is Generally Tax-Free, Including as a Result of Subsequent Acquisitions of Our Stock (Including Pursuant to the Raytheon Merger) or the Stock of Carrier or Otis, We Could Be Subject to Significant Tax Liabilities.
We received (1) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the Separation Transactions and Distributions and (2) an opinion of outside counsel regarding the qualification of certain elements of the Distributions under Section 355 of the Code. Although we intend for the Distributions generally to be tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, there can be no assurance that they will so qualify. Even if the Distributions were to otherwise qualify as tax-free transactions under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, either Distribution or both Distributions may result in taxable gain to us (but not our stockholders) under Section 355(e) of the Code if such Distribution(s) were deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in shares of Carrier, Otis, or us, as applicable. If the IRS were to determine that any post-Distribution acquisitions of Carrier stock, Otis stock, or our stock, as applicable, pursuant to such a plan (when aggregated with any pre-Distribution acquisitions of Carrier stock, Otis stock, or our stock, as applicable, pursuant to such a plan) would represent a 50% or greater interest in shares of Carrier, Otis, or us, as applicable, such determination could result in significant tax liabilities to us. For purposes of this test, even if the Raytheon Merger were treated as part of such plan, it did not result in an acquisition of a 50% or greater interest in our shares pursuant to a plan. Any such tax liabilities imposed on us may adversely affect an investment in us.
In addition, with respect to certain Separation Transactions, we obtained tax rulings in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions and/or opinions of external tax advisors, in each case, regarding the tax treatment of such Separation Transactions. Notwithstanding the receipt of such tax rulings and opinions, there can be no assurance that the relevant taxing authorities will not assert that the tax treatment of the relevant Separation Transactions differs from the conclusions reached therein. In the event the relevant taxing authorities prevail with any challenge in respect of any relevant Separation Transaction, we would be subject to significant tax liabilities, which may adversely affect an investment in us.

26

Table of Contents
Under a tax matters agreement that we entered into with Carrier and Otis in connection with the Separation Transactions and Distributions, each of Carrier and Otis generally is required to indemnify us for any taxes we incur resulting from the Separation Transactions and/or the Distributions to the extent such amounts result from certain disqualifying actions by, or acquisition of equity securities of, Carrier or Otis, as applicable. Further, under the tax matters agreement, each of Carrier and Otis is generally required to indemnify us for a specified portion of any taxes we incur (a) arising as a result of the failure of either of the Distributions and certain related transactions to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free or a failure of any Separation Transaction that is intended to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to so qualify, in each case, to the extent such amounts did not result from a disqualifying action by, or acquisition of equity securities of, Carrier, Otis, or us or (b) arising from certain audit or other adjustments to tax liabilities incurred with respect to Separation Transactions that were not intended to qualify as tax-free. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, each of Carrier and Otis is responsible for (i) a specified portion of any installment payment we are required to make pursuant to Section 965(h)(2) of the Code and (ii) specified taxes that exclusively relate to the Carrier business or the Otis business, as applicable. The amount of any such taxes for which we would be responsible may be significant, and if we were unable to obtain indemnification payments from Carrier or Otis to which we are entitled under the tax matters agreement and/or other agreements entered into in connection with the Separation Transactions and the Distributions, we would incur significant losses.
If We Fail to Manage Potential Future Acquisitions, Investments, Divestitures, Joint Ventures and Other Transactions Successfully, These Activities Could Adversely Affect Our Future Financial Results.
In pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and other teaming and collaborative arrangements. We undertake to identify opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and business opportunities into new areas that naturally extend from our core capabilities. In evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities.
Further, these transactions involve certain other risks and uncertainties including: (1) the risks involved with entering new markets; (2) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and managing or monitoring other collaborative business arrangements; (3) challenges and failures in achieving strategic objectives and other expected benefits, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; (4) unidentified issues not discovered in the Company’s due diligence; (5) the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives; (6) the potential impairment of acquired assets; (7) the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies; and (8) the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired businesses. In addition, future transactions may impact our deployment of capital, including dividends, stock repurchases, pension contributions, and investments.
GENERAL RISK
Quarterly Cash Dividends and Share Repurchases Are Subject to a Number of Uncertainties, and May Affect the Price of Our Common Stock.
Quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases under our share repurchase program generally constitute components of our capital allocation strategy, which we fund through a combination of operating free cash flow, borrowings and proceeds from divestitures. However, we are not required to declare dividends or make any share repurchases under our share repurchase program. Dividends and share repurchases may be discontinued, accelerated, suspended or delayed at any time without prior notice. Even if not discontinued, the amount of such dividends and repurchases may be changed, and the amount, timing and frequency of such dividends and repurchases may vary from historical practice or from the company’s stated expectations. Decisions with respect to dividends and share repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be based on a variety of factors. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue, limit, suspend, increase or delay our quarterly cash dividends or share repurchases include market conditions, the price of our common stock, the nature and timing of other investment opportunities, changes in our business strategy, the terms of our financing arrangements, our outlook as to the ability to obtain financing at attractive rates, the impact on our credit ratings and the availability of domestic cash. The reduction or elimination of our cash dividend, or longer suspension or elimination of our share repurchase program could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance shareowner value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock, and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.

27

Table of Contents
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We have properties in approximately 30 countries, with approximately 550 significant properties comprising approximately 80 million square feet of productive space. Approximately 55% of our significant properties are leased, and 45% are owned. Approximately 70% of our significant properties are located in the United States.
Our fixed assets as of December 31, 2020 include manufacturing facilities and non-manufacturing facilities such as warehouses, laboratories, office space, and a substantial quantity of machinery and equipment, including general purpose machinery and equipment using special jigs, tools and fixtures and in many instances having automatic control features and special adaptations. The facilities, warehouses, machinery and equipment in use as of December 31, 2020 are in good operating condition, are well-maintained and substantially all are generally in regular use.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries and our properties are subject to regulatory and governmental examinations, information gathering requests, inquiries, investigations and threatened legal actions and proceedings. For example, we are now, and believe that, in light of the current U.S. government contracting environment, we will continue to be the subject of one or more U.S. government investigations. Our contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to audits. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), the Inspectors General of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and other departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the Department of Justice (DOJ), and Congressional Committees. Other areas of our business operations may also be subject to audit and investigation by these and other agencies. From time to time, agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. Such investigations and audits may be initiated due to a number of reasons, including as a result of a whistleblower complaint. Such investigations and audits could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines, treble or other damages, forfeitures, restitution, or penalties being imposed upon us, the suspension of government export licenses or the suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting. U.S. government investigations often take years to complete. The U.S. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. The U.S. government could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports recommending the reduction of certain contract prices because, for example, cost or pricing data or cost accounting practices substantial amounts. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and, in some cases, continue to negotiate and/or litigate. The Company may be, and has been, required to make payments into escrow of disputed liabilities while the related litigation is pending. If the litigation is resolved in the Company’s favor, any such payments will be returned to the Company with interest. Our final allowable incurred costs for each year are also subject to audit and have, from time to time, resulted in disputes between us and the U.S. government, with litigation resulting at the Court of Federal Claims (COFC) or the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA) or their related courts of appeals. In addition, the DOJ has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S., and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government regulations or any applicable U.S. government regulations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)) may also be investigated or audited. Other than as specifically disclosed in this Form 10-K, we do not expect these audits, investigations or disputes to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate.
737 MAX Aircraft Litigation
Multiple lawsuits have been filed in U.S. courts relating to the October 29, 2018 Lion Air Flight 610 and the March 10, 2019 Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 accidents. Collins Aerospace sold certain aircraft parts and systems to The Boeing Company for the 737 MAX aircraft involved in these accidents. Certain of our Collins Aerospace businesses have been named, along with other third parties, as parties in many of these lawsuits. We are also fully supporting all ongoing governmental investigations and inquiries relating to the accidents. We do not expect that the lawsuits or governmental investigations or inquiries will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In addition, we are subject to a number of other lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial amounts). For a discussion of contingencies related to certain other legal proceedings, see “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We do not believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

28

Table of Contents
A further discussion of government contracts and related investigations, as well as a discussion of our environmental liabilities, can be found under the heading “Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole – Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations” within Item 1. Business of this Form 10-K and in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE
Not applicable.

29

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
On April 3, 2020, United Technologies Corporation (UTC) completed the previously announced separation of its business into three independent, publicly traded companies – UTC, Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier) and Otis Worldwide Corporation (Otis) (such separations, the “Separation Transactions”). UTC distributed all of the outstanding shares of Carrier common stock and all of the outstanding shares of Otis common stock to UTC shareowners who held shares of UTC common stock as of the close of business on March 19, 2020, the record date for the distributions (the Distributions) effective at 12:01 a.m., Eastern Time, on April 3, 2020. On April 3, 2020, following the completion of the Separation Transactions and the Distributions, UTC and Raytheon Company completed their previously announced all-stock merger of equals transaction (the “Raytheon Merger”). Upon closing of the Raytheon Merger, UTC changed its name to “Raytheon Technologies Corporation.”
Raytheon Technologies’ common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “RTX.” There were approximately 45,151 registered shareowners at January 29, 2021. The information required by Item 5 with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated herein by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareowners titled “Approve Amendment to the Raytheon Technologies Corporation 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan.”
Stock Performance Graph
The following graph presents the cumulative total shareowner return for the five years ending December 31, 2020 for our common stock as compared to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index, the Dow Jones 30 Industrial Average and the S&P Aerospace & Defense (A&D) Index. These figures assume that all dividends paid over the five-year period were reinvested, and that the starting value of each index and the investment in common stock was $100.00 on December 31, 2015.
Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return

------------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------
 Annual Return PercentageYears Ending
Company/Index 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020
Raytheon Technologies Common Stock(1) 17.14 19.13 -14.66 43.82 -16.73
S&P 500 Index 11.96 21.83 -4.38 31.49 18.40
Dow Jones 30 Industrial Average(2) 16.50 28.11 -3.48 25.34 9.72
S&P Aerospace & Defense Index(2) 18.90 41.38 -8.07 30.33 -16.06

(1)    Historical stock prices presented in the chart have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the Distributions on April 3, 2020.
(2)    Prior to the Separations Transactions, Distributions and Raytheon Merger, UTC chose the Dow Jones 30 Industrial Average as its comparable index. After the Separations Transactions, Distributions and Raytheon Merger, the Company chose the S&P A&D Index as a more informative comparable index. Both indices are presented, in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules, which require that if a company selects a different index from that used in the immediately preceding fiscal year, the company’s stock performance must be compared against both the newly selected index and previous index in the year of change.

---------------------------------- --------------------------- ------ ---------- ------ ---------- ---------- ------ ---------- ------ ---------- ------ ------ - ------ - ------
 Indexed ReturnsYears Ending
Company/Index Base Period 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020
Raytheon Technologies Common Stock $ 100.00 117.14 $ 139.55 $ 119.10 $ 171.29 $ 142.64
S&P 500 Index 100.00 111.96 136.40 130.42 171.49 203.04
Dow Jones 30 Industrial Average 100.00 116.50 149.24 144.05 180.56 198.11
S&P Aerospace & Defense Index 100.00 118.90 168.11 154.54 201.41 169.05

30

Table of Contents

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table provides information about our purchases during the quarter ended December 31, 2020 of equity securities that are registered by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act.

--------------------------- --------------------------------------- ---------------------------- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ----- - -----
 2020 Total Number of Shares Purchased(000’s) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of a Publicly Announced Program(000’s) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program(dollars in millions)
October 1 - October 31 — $ — — $ 1,767
November 1 - November 30 — — — 1,767
December 1 - December 31(1) — — — 5,000
Total — $ — —

(1)    The remaining authority to repurchase approximately $1.8 billion of our common stock under the previously approved October 14, 2015 share repurchase program was revoked and replaced as of December 7, 2020 with a $5.0 billion share repurchase program authorized on December 7, 2020, as discussed below.
On December 7, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $5 billion of our common stock, replacing the previous program announced on October 14, 2015. At December 31, 2020, the maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under this current program was $5.0 billion. We did not make any share repurchases during the quarter ended December 31, 2020. No shares were reacquired in transactions outside the program during the quarter ended December 31, 2020.

31

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the information contained in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, which are incorporated herein by reference, in order to understand the factors that may affect the comparability of the financial data presented below.
Five-Year Summary

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------ ---- ------- ---- ------- ------- - ---- ------- - ------ ------ - ------
(in millions, except per share amounts and number of employees) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
For The Year
Net sales (1), (3), (4) $ 56,587 $ 45,349 $ 34,701 $ 29,713 $ 28,528
Research and development (3), (4) 2,582 2,452 1,878 1,876 1,857
Operating profit (loss) (1), (3), (4) (1,889) 4,914 2,877 2,989 3,252
Restructuring costs(3), (4) 777 245 158 92 166
Net income (loss) from continuing operations (1), (3), (4) (2,928) 3,731 1,406 1,468 2,133
Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners (1), (3), (4) (3,109) 3,510 1,216 1,313 2,009
Income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to common shareowners (410) 2,027 4,053 3,239 3,046
Diluted earnings (loss) per share—Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners (1), (3), (4) (2.29) 4.06 1.50 1.64 2.43
Cash dividends per common share 2.16 2.94 2.84 2.72 2.62
Average diluted shares of Common Stock outstanding 1,358 864 810 799 826
Cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing operations (3), (4) 4,334 5,821 2,670 2,282 3,003
Capital expenditures (3), (4) 1,795 1,868 1,467 1,556 1,265
Acquisitions, including net cash payments, debt assumed & equity issued 35,077 9 30,783 25 24
Repurchases of Common Stock 47 151 325 1,453 2,254
Dividends paid on Common Stock (excluding ESOP) 2,732 2,442 2,170 2,074 2,069
At Year End
Working capital (3), (4), (5) $ 7,580 $ (2,397) $ (2,284) $ 2,975 $ 1,370
Total assets (1), (2), (5) 162,089 107,792 103,471 65,994 60,252
Long-term debt, including current portion (3), (4), (5) 31,576 40,959 43,763 26,917 23,131
Total debt (3), (4), (5) 31,823 43,252 45,191 27,279 23,696
Total debt to total capitalization 30 % 49 % 53 % 46 % 45 %
Total equity $ 73,852 $ 44,231 $ 40,610 $ 31,421 $ 29,169
Total backlog (1), (3), (4) 150,119 111,665 93,844 75,636 72,328
Number of employees (3), (4) 181,000 121,600 117,300 81,600 77,700

(1)    Amounts prior to 2018 do not reflect the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue Recognition from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), in the first quarter of 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
(2)    Amounts prior to 2019 do not reflect the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), in the first quarter of 2019 using the modified retrospective approach.
(3)    Amounts prior to 2020 do not reflect the impact of the Raytheon Merger. See “Note 2: Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
(4)    Amounts prior to 2018 do not reflect the acquisition of Rockwell Collins, Inc. (Rockwell Acquisition). See “Note 2: Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
(5)    Excludes assets and liabilities related to discontinued operations, for all periods presented.

32

Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
We are a global premier systems provider of high technology products and services to the aerospace and defense industries. On April 3, 2020, United Technologies Corporation (UTC) completed the Separation Transactions as defined below, and on April 3, 2020, completed the Raytheon Merger as defined below, to form the new company, Raytheon Technologies Corporation. As a result of these transactions, we now operate in four principal business segments: Collins Aerospace Systems (Collins Aerospace), Pratt & Whitney, Raytheon Intelligence & Space (RIS) and Raytheon Missiles & Defense (RMD).
Separation Transactions and Distributions. On April 3, 2020, UTC (since renamed Raytheon Technologies Corporation) completed the separation of its business into three independent, publicly traded companies – UTC, Carrier Global Corporation (Carrier) and Otis Worldwide Corporation (Otis) (such separations, the “Separation Transactions”). UTC distributed all of the outstanding shares of Carrier common stock and all of the outstanding shares of Otis common stock to UTC shareowners who held shares of UTC common stock as of the close of business on March 19, 2020, the record date for the distributions (the Distributions). UTC distributed 866,158,910 and 433,079,455 shares of common stock of Carrier and Otis, respectively in the Distributions, each of which was effective at 12:01 a.m., Eastern Time, on April 3, 2020. The historical results of Carrier and Otis are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated, amounts and activity are presented on a continuing operations basis.
Raytheon Merger. On April 3, 2020, following the completion of the Separation Transactions and the Distributions, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 9, 2019, as amended, UTC and Raytheon Company (Raytheon) completed their all-stock merger of equals transaction (the Raytheon Merger). Upon closing of the Raytheon Merger, Raytheon Company became a wholly owned subsidiary of UTC, which changed its name to “Raytheon Technologies Corporation.”
On November 26, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Rockwell Collins (the Rockwell Acquisition), a leader in aviation and high-integrity solutions for commercial and military customers as well as leading-edge avionics, flight controls, aircraft interior and data connectivity solutions. Refer to “Note 2: Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion on the Rockwell Acquisition.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” “Raytheon Technologies,” and “RTC” mean United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the Raytheon Merger and to the combined company, Raytheon Technologies Corporation, when referring to periods after the Raytheon Merger. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Raytheon Company,” or “Raytheon” mean Raytheon Company and its subsidiaries prior to the Raytheon Merger.
UTC was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the merger, and as a result the financial statements of Raytheon Technologies for year ended December 31, 2020 include Raytheon Company’s financial position and results of operations for the period subsequent to the completion of the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020. The historical results of Carrier and Otis are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. See “Note 3: Discontinued Operations” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
Industry Considerations
Our worldwide operations can be affected by industrial, economic and political factors on both a regional and global level. Our operations include original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and extensive related aftermarket parts and services related to our aerospace operations. Our defense business serves both domestic and international customers primarily as a prime contractor or subcontractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for government customers. Our business mix also reflects the combination of shorter cycles in our commercial aerospace spares contracts and certain service contracts in our defense business primarily at RIS, and longer cycles in our aerospace OEM and aftermarket maintenance contracts and on our defense contracts to design, develop, manufacture or modify complex equipment. Our customers are in the public and private sectors, and our businesses reflect an extensive geographic diversification that has evolved with continued globalization.
Government legislation, policies and regulations, including regulations related to global warming, carbon footprint and fuel efficiency, can have a negative impact on our worldwide operations. Government and industry-driven safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions, government imposed travel restrictions, and government procurement practices can impact our businesses.
Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney serve both commercial and government aerospace customers. Revenue passenger miles (RPMs), available seat miles and the general economic health of airline carriers are key barometers for our commercial aerospace operations. Performance in the general aviation sector is closely tied to the overall health of the economy and is

33

Table of Contents
positively correlated to corporate profits. Our commercial aftermarket operations continue to evolve as a significant portion of our aerospace operations’ customers are covered under long-term aftermarket service agreements at both Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney. These agreements are comprehensive long-term spare part and service agreements with our customers.
RIS, RMD, and the defense operations of Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney are affected by U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) budget and spending levels, changes in demand, changes in policy positions or priorities from a new U.S. Administration and the global political environment. Total sales to the U.S. government, excluding foreign military sales (FMS), were $26.0 billion, $9.1 billion and $6.6 billion in 2020, 2019 and 2018 or 45.9%, 20.1% and 18.9% of total net sales for those years, respectively.
Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic
In March 2020, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization and a national emergency by the U.S. government. The pandemic has negatively affected the U.S. and global economy, disrupted global supply chains and financial markets, and resulted in significant travel restrictions, mandated facility closures and shelter-in-place and social distancing orders in numerous jurisdictions around the world. Raytheon Technologies is taking all prudent measures to protect the health and safety of our employees, such as practicing social distancing, performing deep cleaning in all of our facilities, temperature screening, health questionnaires and enabling our employees to work from home where possible. We have also taken appropriate actions to help support our communities in addressing the challenges posed by the pandemic, including the production and donation of personal protective equipment.
Our business and operations and the industries in which we operate have been significantly impacted by public and private sector policies and initiatives in the U.S. and worldwide to address the transmission of COVID-19, such as the imposition of travel restrictions and the adoption of remote working. Additionally, public sentiments regarding air travel have also had a significant impact. We began to experience issues related to COVID-19 in the first quarter of 2020, primarily related to a limited number of facility closures, less than full staffing, and disruptions in supplier deliveries, most significantly in our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney businesses.
The continued disruption to air travel and commercial activities and the significant restrictions and limitations on businesses, particularly within the aerospace and commercial airline industries, have negatively impacted global supply, demand and distribution capabilities. These conditions, which began in the second quarter of 2020, continued through the remainder of 2020. In particular, the unprecedented decrease in air travel resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting our airline and airframer customers, and their demand for the products and services of our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney businesses. Based on recent public data, revenue passenger miles (RPMs) declined by approximately 65% in the first eleven months of 2020, compared to the prior year, due to the pandemic. As a result, our airline customers have reported significant reductions in fleet utilization, aircraft grounding and unplanned retirements, and have deferred and, in some cases, cancelled new aircraft deliveries. Airlines have shifted to cash conservation behaviors such as deferring engine maintenance due to lower flight hours and aircraft utilization, requesting extended payment terms, deferring delivery of new aircraft and spare engines and requesting discounts on engine maintenance. Some airline customers have filed for bankruptcy due to their inability to meet their financial obligations. Additionally, we are seeing purchase order declines in line with publicly communicated aircraft production volumes as original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers delay and cancel orders. We continue to monitor these trends and are working closely with our customers. We have been and continue to actively mitigate costs and adjust production schedules to accommodate these declines in demand. We have also been taking actions to preserve capital and protect the long-term needs of our businesses, including cutting discretionary spending, significantly reducing capital expenditures and research and development spend, suspending our share buybacks in 2020, deferring merit increases and implementing temporary pay reductions, freezing non-essential hiring, repositioning employees to defense work, furloughing employees when needed, and personnel reductions. In 2020, we recorded total restructuring charges of $777 million primarily related to personnel reductions at our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney businesses to preserve capital and at our corporate headquarters due to consolidation from the Raytheon Merger. The former Raytheon Company businesses, although experiencing minor impacts, have not experienced significant facility closures or other significant business disruptions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Given the impacts described above that have resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect our future operating results, particularly those of our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney businesses to continue to be significantly negatively impacted. Our expectations regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and its potential financial impact are based on available information and assumptions that we believe are reasonable at this time; however, the actual financial impact is highly uncertain and subject to a wide range of factors and future developments. While we believe that the long-term outlook for the aerospace industry remains positive due to the fundamental drivers of air travel demand, there is significant uncertainty with respect to when commercial air traffic levels will begin to recover, and whether and at what point capacity will return to and/or exceed pre-COVID-19 levels. Our latest estimates are that this recovery may occur in 2023 or 2024. New information may emerge concerning the

34

Table of Contents
scope, severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as any worsening of the pandemic, the effect of mutating strains and whether additional outbreaks of the pandemic will continue to occur, actions to contain the pandemic’s spread or treat its impact, timing of the availability of vaccines, and their distribution, acceptance and efficacy, and governmental, business and individual personal actions taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions and limitations on travel and transportation, and changes in leisure and business travel patterns and work environments) among others. Some of these actions and related impacts may be trends that continue in the future even after the pandemic no longer poses a significant public health risk.
We considered the deterioration in general economic and market conditions primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic to be a triggering event in the first and second quarters of 2020, requiring an impairment evaluation of goodwill, intangible assets and other assets in our commercial aerospace businesses, Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, we observed several airline customer bankruptcies, delays and cancellations of aircraft purchases by airlines, fleet retirements and repositioning of OEM production schedules and we experienced a significant decline in revenues at our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney businesses due to a decline in flight hours, aircraft fleet utilization, shop visits and commercial OEM deliveries. These factors contributed to a deterioration of our expectations regarding the timing of a return to pre-COVID-19 commercial flight activity, which further reduced our future sales and cash flows expectations. Based on our updated forecast assumptions in the second quarter of 2020, we concluded that the carrying values of two of our Collins Aerospace reporting units were greater than their respective fair values, and accordingly, recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $3.2 billion. We did not identify any further deterioration to our expectations in the third quarter of 2020 and, therefore, did not have a triggering event.
We completed our annual goodwill impairment testing as of October 1, 2020 and determined that no additional adjustments to the carrying value of our goodwill were necessary. Refer to “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
As described further in “Note 8: Commercial Aerospace Industry Assets and Commitments” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we have significant exposure related to our airline and airframer customers, including significant accounts receivable and contract assets balances. Given the uncertainty related to the severity and length of the pandemic, as well as any worsening of the pandemic, mutations to the strains of the virus and the timing and impact of vaccines and whether there will be additional outbreaks of the pandemic and its impact across the aerospace industry, we may be required to record additional charges or impairments in future periods. For a discussion on the 2020 impacts see “Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Although the impact of COVID-19 on our commercial business is significant, we currently believe we have sufficient liquidity to withstand the current estimated impacts.
Other Matters
Global economic and political conditions, changes in raw material and commodity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, energy costs, levels of air travel, the financial condition of commercial airlines, and the impact from natural disasters and weather conditions create uncertainties that could impact our businesses in 2021. With regard to political conditions, in July 2019, the U.S. government suspended Turkey’s participation in the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program because Turkey accepted supply us with components, some of which are sole-sourced, primarily in our aerospace operations for commercial and military engines and aerospace products. Depending upon the scope and timing of U.S. be determined at this time.
The recent U.S. presidential and congressional election could result in changes to the U.S. government’s foreign policies that may impact regulatory approval for direct commercial sales contracts for certain of our products and services to certain foreign customers. Likewise, it is uncertain whether approvals previously granted for prior sales could also be paused or revoked if the products and services have not yet been delivered to the customer. If we ultimately do not receive all of the regulatory approvals, or those approvals are revoked, it could have a material effect on our financial results.

35

Table of Contents
In particular, we have direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions with a certain Middle East customer, for which we have not yet obtained regulatory approval. Due to the result of the U.S. presidential and congressional election, and the resulting uncertainty surrounding U.S. foreign policy on direct commercial sales for precision guided munitions with this customer, we determined that it is no longer probable that we will be able to obtain required regulatory approvals for these contracts; however, this determination could change as the U.S. government’s foreign policy views are clarified. Therefore, in the fourth quarter of 2020, we reversed $119 million of sales for work performed on these specific contracts subsequent to the date of the Raytheon Merger and through the end of the third quarter of 2020, and the related operating profit. In addition, we recognized an unfavorable profit impact of $516 million, primarily related to inventory reserves, contract asset impairments and recognition of supplier related obligations related to termination liability, which we now do not expect to be utilized or otherwise directed to other customers. In addition, we reversed $755 million of backlog on these contracts. Our contract liabilities include $405 million of advance payments received from the customer on these contracts, which may become refundable to the customer if the contracts are ultimately terminated.
See Item 1A. Risk Factors within Part I of this Form 10-K for further discussion of these items.
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
We use the following key financial performance measures to manage our business on a consolidated basis and by business segment, and to monitor and assess our results of operations:
– Net Sales—a growth metric that measures our revenue for the current year;
– Operating Profit—a measure of our profit from continuing operations for the year, before non-operating expenses, net and income taxes; and
– Operating Margin—a measure of our operating profit as a percentage of total net sales.

---------------------------------------------- ------- ------ ---- ------- ---- ------ ------ - - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Total net sales $ 56,587 $ 45,349 $ 34,701
Operating profit (loss) (1,889) 4,914 2,877
Operating margin (3.3) % 10.8 % 8.3 %
Operating cash flow from continuing operations $ 4,334 $ 5,821 $ 2,670
Total backlog 150,119 111,665 93,844

Backlog, which is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations for our contracts, represents the dollar value of firm orders for which work has not been performed and excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) type contracts). Backlog generally increases with bookings and/or orders and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments for our contracts recognized over time or as products are transferred to our customers for point in time contracts. Backlog is affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.
In addition, we maintain a strong focus on program execution and the prudent management of capital and investments in order to maximize operating income and cash. We focus on adjusted earnings per share (EPS) and measures to assess our cash generation and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital, such as free cash flow (FCF) and return on invested capital (ROIC), all of which are not defined measurements under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and may be calculated differently by other companies.
Considered together, we believe these metrics are strong indicators of our overall performance and our ability to create shareowner value. We feel these measures are balanced among long-term and short-term performance, efficiency and growth. We also use these and other performance metrics for executive compensation purposes.
A discussion of our results of operations and financial condition follows below in Results of Operations, Segment Review, and Liquidity and Financial Condition.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
As described in our “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results” in this Form 10-K, our period-to-period comparisons of our results, particularly at a segment level, may not be indicative of our future operating results. The following discussions of comparative results among periods, including the discussion of segment results, should be viewed in this context. As discussed further above in “Business Overview,” the results of RIS and RMD reflect the period subsequent to the completion of the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020. In addition, as a result of the Separations Transactions and the

36

Table of Contents
Distributions, the historical results of Carrier and Otis are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented.
Net Sales

--------------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- ------ - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net sales $ 56,587 $ 45,349 $ 34,701

The factors contributing to the total change year-over-year in total net sales are as follows:

---------------------------------- ------ -------- ---- ----- - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Organic (1) $ (10,438) $ 2,351
Foreign currency translation 14 (73)
Acquisitions and divestitures, net 21,662 8,370
Other — —
Total Change $ 11,238 $ 10,648

(1)    We provide the organic change in net sales for our consolidated results of operations. We believe that this measure is useful to investors because it provides transparency to the underlying performance of our business, which allows for better year-over-year comparability. The organic change excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; acquisitions and divestitures, net; and other significant non-recurring and non-operational items. A reconciliation of this measure to reported U.S. GAAP amounts is provided in the table above.
Net sales decreased $10,438 million organically in 2020 compared to 2019. This decrease reflects lower organic sales of $6.6 billion at Collins Aerospace, primarily driven by lower commercial aerospace OEM sales and lower commercial aerospace aftermarket sales, partially offset by higher military sales. The declines in commercial aerospace OEM sales and commercial aerospace aftermarket sales were primarily due to the current economic environment principally driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has resulted in lower flight hours, aircraft fleet utilization and commercial OEM deliveries. The decrease in net sales also reflects lower organic sales of $4.1 billion at Pratt & Whitney primarily due to lower commercial aftermarket sales due to a significant reduction in shop visits and related spare part sales, and lower commercial OEM sales, primarily due to a significant reduction in commercial engine deliveries, all principally driven by the current economic and operating environment primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease at Pratt & Whitney was partially offset by higher military sales primarily driven by an increase in F135 engine sales and aftermarket growth on multiple platforms. The $21,662 million sales increase in Acquisitions and divestitures, net in 2020 compared to 2019, is primarily driven by the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020. Included in the change in Acquisitions and divestitures, net was the sale of the Collins Aerospace military Global Positioning System (GPS) and space-based precision optics businesses sold in the third quarter of 2020, as further discussed in “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Net sales increased $2,351 million organically in 2019 compared to 2018. This increase reflects higher organic sales of $1.6 billion at Pratt & Whitney, primarily driven by higher military, commercial OEM, and commercial aftermarket sales. The increase in net sales also reflects higher organic sales of $1.1 billion at Collins Aerospace primarily driven by higher commercial aftermarket and military sales, partially offset by lower commercial aerospace OEM sales. The $8,370 million sales increase in Acquisitions and divestitures, net in 2019 compared to 2018, is primarily driven by the Rockwell Acquisition.
The composition of external net sales by products and services sales for 2020 was approximately the following:

-------- ------------------------- - --------------- -- ----------------------------- --------------------------- - -- -
 Collins Aerospace Systems Pratt & Whitney Raytheon Intelligence & Space Raytheon Missiles & Defense
Products 80 % 60 % 75 % 90 %
Services 20 % 40 % 25 % 10 %

--------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ------ -------------------- ---- ------ ---- --- - --- - --- -
 % of Total Net Sales
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Net Sales
Products $ 43,319 $ 32,998 $ 24,141 77 % 73 % 70 %
Services 13,268 12,351 10,560 23 % 27 % 30 %
Total net sales $ 56,587 $ 45,349 $ 34,701 100 % 100 % 100 %

Net products sales grew $10,321 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to an increase in external product sales of $18.4 billion due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020, partially offset by decreases in external product sales of $5.3 billion

37

Table of Contents
at Collins Aerospace and $2.8 billion at Pratt & Whitney. Net services sales grew $917 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to an increase in external services sales of $3.4 billion due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020, partially offset by decreases in external services sales of $1.3 billion at Pratt & Whitney and $1.2 billion at Collins Aerospace.
Net products sales grew $8,857 million in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in external product sales of $7.3 billion at Collins Aerospace principally driven by the Rockwell Acquisition and an increase in external product sales of $1.6 billion at Pratt & Whitney. Net services sales grew $1,791 million in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in external services sales of $1.9 billion at Collins Aerospace primarily due to the Rockwell Acquisition.
Our sales to major customers were as follows:

-------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ------ -------------------- ---- ------ ---- --- - --- - --- -
 % of Total Net Sales
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Sales to the U.S. government (1) $ 25,962 $ 9,094 $ 6,560 46 % 20 % 19 %
Foreign military sales through the U.S. government 4,585 1,571 902 8 % 3 % 3 %
Foreign government direct commercial sales 3,974 1,498 1,275 7 % 3 % 4 %
Commercial aerospace and other commercial sales 22,066 33,186 25,964 39 % 73 % 75 %
Total net sales $ 56,587 $ 45,349 $ 34,701 100 % 100 % 100 %

(1)    Excludes foreign military sales through the U.S. government.
Cost of Products and Services Sold

---------------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- -- ---- ------ -- - - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Total cost of products and services sold $ 48,056 $ 34,598 $ 27,465
Percentage of net sales 85 % 76 % 79 %

The factors contributing to the change year-over-year in total cost of products and services sold are as follows:

---------------------------------- ------ ------- ---- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Organic (1) $ (4,432) $ 1,781
Foreign currency translation 8 (125)
Acquisitions and divestitures, net 17,696 5,241
Restructuring 220 89
FAS/CAS operating adjustment (965) —
Acquisition accounting adjustments 939 424
Other (8) (277)
Total Change $ 13,458 $ 7,133

(1)    We provide the organic change in cost of sales for our consolidated results of operations. We believe that this measure is useful to investors because it provides transparency to the underlying performance of our business, which allows for better year-over-year comparability. The organic change excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; acquisitions and divestitures, net; restructuring costs; costs related to certain acquisition accounting adjustments and other significant non-recurring and non-operational items. A reconciliation of this measure to reported U.S. GAAP amounts is provided in the table above.
The organic decrease in total cost of products and services sold in 2020 compared to 2019 of $4,432 million was primarily driven by the organic sales decreases noted above. The increase in Acquisitions and divestitures, net of $17,696 million in 2020 compared to 2019 is primarily driven by the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020. Included in the change in Acquisitions and divestitures, net is the sale of the Collins Aerospace military GPS and space-based precision optics businesses sold in the third quarter of 2020, as further discussed in “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K and an unfavorable profit impact of $516 million related to inventory reserves, contract asset impairments and recognition of supplier related obligations for certain international contracts at RMD as further described in “Segment Review” below. Included in the decrease in Other of $8 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was prior year amortization of inventory fair value step-up associated with the Rockwell Collins acquisition of $181 million at Collins Aerospace, partially offset by an $89 million impairment of commercial aircraft program assets at Pratt & Whitney in the current year.
The organic increase in total cost of products and services sold in 2019 compared to 2018, of $1,781 million was primarily driven by the organic sales increases noted above. The increase in Acquisitions and divestitures, net of $5,241 million for 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily driven by the Rockwell Acquisition. The decrease in Other of $277 million primarily reflects the absence of a 2018 customer contract settlement at Pratt & Whitney.

38

Table of Contents
For further discussion on Restructuring costs see “Restructuring Costs” section below. For further discussion on FAS/CAS operating adjustment see “FAS/CAS operating adjustment” section below. For further discussion on Acquisition accounting adjustments, see “Acquisition accounting adjustments” subsection under the “Segment Review” section below.

--------------------- ----- ------ ---- ----- ---- ------ -------------------- ---- ------ ---- -- - -- - -- -
 % of Total Net Sales
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Cost of sales
Products $ 38,137 $ 26,910 $ 21,083 67 % 59 % 61 %
Services 9,919 7,688 6,382 18 % 17 % 18 %
Total cost of sales $ 48,056 $ 34,598 $ 27,465 85 % 76 % 79 %

Net products cost of sales grew $11,227 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to an increase in external product cost of sales due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020, partially offset by decreases in external product cost of sales at Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney. Net services cost of sales grew $2,231 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to an increase in external services cost of sales due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020, partially offset by a decrease in external services cost of sales at Collins Aerospace.
Net products cost of sales grew $5,827 million in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in external product cost of sales at Collins Aerospace, primarily due to the Rockwell Acquisition, and at Pratt & Whitney. Net services cost of sales grew $1,306 million in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in external services cost of sales at Collins Aerospace primarily due to the Rockwell Acquisition.
Research and Development

----------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- ---- ----- --- - - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Company-funded $ 2,582 $ 2,452 $ 1,878
Percentage of net sales 4.6 % 5.4 % 5.4 %
Customer-funded (1) $ 4,111 $ 2,283 $ 1,517
Percentage of net sales 7.3 % 5.0 % 4.4 %

(1)    Customer-funded research and development costs are included in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Research and development spending is subject to the variable nature of program development schedules and, therefore, year-over-year fluctuations in spending levels are expected. The increase in company-funded research and development of $130 million in 2020 compared to 2019, was primarily driven by $0.6 billion related to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020, partially offset by lower expenses of $0.3 billion across various commercial programs at Pratt & Whitney and $0.2 billion across various commercial programs at Collins Aerospace, both principally driven by cost reduction measures in response to the current economic environment primarily due to COVID-19. The increase in company-funded research and development of $574 million in 2019 compared to 2018, was primarily driven by $0.5 billion related to the Rockwell Acquisition. Excluding this impact, Collins Aerospace company-funded research and development increased $0.1 billion driven by higher expenses across various commercial programs.
The increase in customer-funded research and development of $1,828 million in 2020 compared to 2019, was primarily driven by $1.7 billion related to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020. The increase in customer-funded research and development of $766 million in 2019 compared to 2018, was primarily driven by $0.8 billion related to the Rockwell Acquisition.
Selling, General and Administrative

----------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- --- ---- ----- --- - - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Selling, general and administrative $ 5,540 $ 3,711 $ 2,864
Percentage of net sales 9.8 % 8.2 % 8.3 %

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1,829 million in 2020 compared to 2019, primarily driven by $1.6 billion related to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020, excluding the impact of merger-related restructuring costs. The increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses also includes higher expenses of $0.4 billion related to increased estimates of expected credit losses primarily due to customer bankruptcies and additional allowances for credit losses at Pratt & Whitney and Collins Aerospace, higher general and administrative restructuring costs of $0.3 billion, and lower expenses due to cost reduction initiatives.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $847 million in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily driven by $0.6 billion of incremental selling, general and administrative expenses resulting from the Rockwell Acquisition and $0.1 billion of costs

39

Table of Contents
associated with the Raytheon Merger. The increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses also includes higher expenses of $0.2 billion at Collins Aerospace, primarily driven by increased headcount and employee compensation related expenses partially offset by synergy capture related to the Rockwell Acquisition.
We are continuously evaluating our cost structure and have implemented restructuring actions in an effort to keep our cost structure competitive. As appropriate, the amounts reflected above include the beneficial impact of previous restructuring actions on Selling, general and administrative expenses. See “Note 14: Restructuring Costs” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K and Restructuring Costs, below, for further discussion.
Other Income, Net

--------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- --- - ---
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Other income, net $ 885 $ 326 $ 383

Other income, net includes equity earnings in unconsolidated entities, royalty income, foreign exchange gains and losses, as well as other ongoing and nonrecurring items. The increase in Other income, net of $559 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to $595 million of gains on the sales of the Collins Aerospace businesses, as further discussed in “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and $225 million related to foreign government wage subsidies due to COVID-19 at Pratt & Whitney and Collins Aerospace, partially offset by a net unfavorable year-over-year impact of foreign exchange gains and losses of $138 million.
The decrease in Other income, net of $57 million in 2019 compared to 2018, was primarily due to a net unfavorable impact of foreign exchange gains and losses.
Operating Profit (Loss)

------------------------------ ----- ------- ---- ---- ----- --- -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Operating profit (loss) $ (1,889) $ 4,914 $ 2,877
Operating profit (loss) margin (3.3) % 10.8 % 8.3 %

The change in Operating profit (loss) of $6,803 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily driven by the operating performance at our segments as described below in “Segment Review” and the $3,183 million goodwill impairment in the second quarter of 2020 related to two Collins Aerospace reporting units. Included in the change in Operating profit (loss) was an increase in acquisition accounting adjustments of $1,057 million related to the Raytheon Merger, an increase in restructuring costs of $527 million primarily related to restructuring actions taken at our Collins Aerospace segment and restructuring actions in connection with the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020 and an unfavorable profit impact of $516 million related to inventory reserves, contract asset impairments and recognition of supplier related obligations for certain international contracts at RMD as further described in “Segment Review” below.
The increase in Operating profit (loss) of $2,037 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily driven by operating performance at our segments as described below in “Segment Review.” Included in the increase in Operating profit (loss) was an increase in acquisition accounting adjustments of $375 million primarily related to the Rockwell acquisition and increase in restructuring costs of $93 million primarily related to actions taken at our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney segments.
Non-service Pension (Income) Expense

------------------------------------ ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Non-service pension (income) expense $ (902) $ (829) $ (659)

The change in Non-service pension (income) expense of $73 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily driven by the inclusion of Raytheon Company plans in 2020 as a result of the Raytheon Merger and a decrease in the interest rates at December 31, 2019 and during 2020 compared to December 31, 2018, partially offset by a decrease in the expected return on plan assets (EROA) assumption for the UTC plans in 2020 and a one-time curtailment gain of $98 million in 2019. The one-time curtailment gain was due to the recognition of previously unrecognized prior service credits as a result of an amendment to the UTC domestic defined benefit plans to cease accrual of additional benefits for future service and compensation for non-union participants effective December 31, 2019.
The change in Non-service pension (income) expense of $170 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily driven the inclusion of Rockwell Collins plans in 2019 as a result of the Rockwell Collins acquisition and a one-time curtailment gain of $98 million in 2019.

40

Table of Contents
Interest Expense, Net

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Interest expense $ 1,408 $ 1,711 $ 1,182
Interest income (42) (120) (150)
Interest expense, net $ 1,366 $ 1,591 $ 1,032
Average interest expense rate - average outstanding borrowings during the year:
Short-term borrowings 2.0 % 1.7 % 1.3 %
Total debt 4.0 % 3.6 % 3.5 %
Average interest expense rate - outstanding borrowings as of December 31:
Short-term borrowings 0.6 % 2.3 % 1.9 %
Total debt 4.2 % 3.6 % 3.5 %

Interest expense, net decreased $225 million in 2020 as compared with 2019, primarily due to a decrease in interest expense principally driven by the repayment of long-term debt, partially offset by a decrease in interest income principally driven by interest income of $63 million related to tax settlements in the prior year. The average maturity of our long-term debt at December 31, 2020 was approximately 14 years.
Interest expense, net increased $559 million in 2019 as compared with 2018, primarily due to an increase in interest expense driven by debt acquired from the Rockwell Acquisition and the impact of the August 16, 2018 issuance of notes representing $11 billion in aggregate principal amount. The average maturity of our long-term debt at December 31, 2019 was approximately 10 years.
Income Taxes

------------------------- ------ - ---- ---- ---- ---- -
 2020 2019 2018
Effective income tax rate (24.4) % 10.1 % 43.8 %

The 2020 negative effective tax rate is a result of having tax expense of $575 million on a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $2,353 million. The loss from continuing operations before income taxes includes the $3,183 million goodwill impairment as described in “Note 2: Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K, most of which is non-deductible for tax purposes. Tax expense includes net deferred tax charges of $367 million resulting from the Separation Transactions and the Raytheon Merger primarily related to the impairment of deferred tax assets, and incremental tax expense of $177 million related to the disposal of businesses, including the sales of the Collins Aerospace and RIS businesses and the entry into a definitive agreement to sell Forcepoint, as described in “Note 2: Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. As a result of the Separation Transactions and the restructuring charges recognized in 2020, tax expense also includes $49 million related to revaluation of the tax benefit for certain international tax incentives, as the Company no longer expects to meet the incentive requirements. Also included in the 2020 effective tax rate are tax benefits of $142 million associated with U.S. research and development credits and $83 million associated with Foreign Derived Intangible Income (FDII).
The 2019 effective tax rate includes tax benefits of $290 million primarily associated with the conclusion of the audit by the Examination Division of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the Company’s 2014, 2015 and 2016 tax years and the filing by a subsidiary of the Company to participate in an amnesty program offered by the Italian Tax Authority. The 2019 effective tax rate also includes tax benefits of $138 million associated with FDII and $101 million related to U.S. research and development credits.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) was enacted. The 2018 effective tax rate reflects a net charge of $744 million for TCJA related adjustments. The amount primarily relates to non-U.S. taxes that will become due when previously reinvested earnings of certain international subsidiaries are remitted. The 2018 effective tax rate also includes tax benefits of $102 million associated with FDII and $73 million related to U.S. research & development credits.
For additional discussion of income taxes and the effective income tax rate, see “Income Taxes” within Critical Accounting Estimates, below, and “Note 13: Income Taxes” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

41

Table of Contents
Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareowners

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- ---- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 2018
Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners $ (3,109) $ 3,510 $ 1,216
Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations $ (2.29) $ 4.06 $ 1.50

Net loss from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners for 2020 includes the following:
•acquisition accounting adjustments primarily related to the Raytheon Merger of $1,435 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $1.06;
•restructuring charges of $598 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.44;
•$3,240 million of primarily non-deductible goodwill and intangibles impairment charges related to our Collins Aerospace segment, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $2.37;
•significant unfavorable contract adjustments at Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney of $667 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.49;
•$415 million of tax charges in connection with the Separation Transactions, including the impairment of deferred tax assets not expected to be utilized, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.31;
•unfavorable profit impact at RMD of $412 million, net of tax, related to certain direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions with a certain Middle East customer, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.30;
•increased estimates of expected credit losses driven by customer bankruptcies and additional allowances for credit losses of $300 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.22; and
•gains on the sales of the Collins Aerospace businesses of $240 million, net of tax, which had a favorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.18.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners for 2019 includes the following:
•acquisition accounting adjustments of $704 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.81;
•restructuring charges of $186 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.21;
•tax settlements and related interest income on tax settlements of $341 million, which had a favorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.39; and
•amortization on the inventory fair value step-up associated with the Rockwell Acquisition of $140 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.16.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners for 2018 includes the following:
•acquisition accounting adjustments of $432 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.53;
•restructuring charges of $114 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.14;
•an income tax charge related to the estimated impact of the TCJA of $744 million, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.92; and
•the unfavorable impact of customer contract matters at Pratt & Whitney of $220 million, net of tax, which had an unfavorable impact on diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.27.
Net Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareowners

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 2018
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to common shareowners $ (410) $ 2,027 $ 4,053
Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations $ (0.30) $ 2.35 $ 5.00

On April 3, 2020, we completed the separation of our commercial businesses, Carrier and Otis. Effective as of such date, the historical results of the Carrier and Otis segments have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. See “Note 3: Discontinued Operations” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
The change in net income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to common shareowners of $2,437 million and the related change in diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations of $2.65 in 2020 compared to 2019 was

42

Table of Contents
primarily due to prior year Carrier and Otis operating activity, as the Separation Transactions occurred on April 3, 2020, partially offset by higher prior year costs associated with the separation of our commercial businesses as discussed below.
Net income (loss) from discontinued operations for 2020 and 2019 includes $888 million, net of tax, and $1,284 million, net of tax, respectively, of costs associated with the Company’s separation of its commercial businesses. Separation costs in 2020 primarily related to debt extinguishment costs of $611 million in connection with the early repayment of outstanding principal.
The change in net income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to common shareowners of $2,026 million and the related change in diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations of $2.65 in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the increased costs associated with the separation of our commercial businesses in 2019 and the absence of a gain on Carrier’s sale of Taylor Company of $591 million, net of tax in 2018.
Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Common Shareowners

---------------------------------------------------- ---- ------- ---- ---- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 2018
Net income (loss) attributable to common shareowners $ (3,519) $ 5,537 $ 5,269
Diluted earnings (loss) per share from operations $ (2.59) $ 6.41 $ 6.50

The change in net income (loss) attributable to common shareowners and diluted EPS from operations for 2020 compared to 2019 was driven by the decrease in continuing operations, as discussed above in Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareowners and the decrease from discontinued operations, as discussed above in Net Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareowners.
The change in net income (loss) attributable to common shareowners and diluted EPS from operations for 2019 compared to 2018 was driven by the increase in continuing operations, as discussed above in Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to Common Shareowners, partially offset by the decrease from discontinued operations, as discussed above in Net Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Common Shareowners.

RESTRUCTURING COSTS

--------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- --- - ---
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Restructuring costs $ 777 $ 245 $ 158

Restructuring actions are an essential component of our operating margin improvement efforts and relate to existing and recently acquired operations. Charges generally arise from severance related to workforce reductions and facility exit costs associated with the consolidation of field and manufacturing operations and costs to exit legacy programs. We continue to closely monitor the economic environment and may undertake further restructuring actions to keep our cost structure aligned with the demands of the prevailing market conditions.
2020 Actions. During 2020, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring charges of $770 million for restructuring efforts initiated in 2020, primarily related to severance and restructuring actions at Pratt & Whitney and Collins Aerospace in response to the impact on our operating results related to the current economic environment primarily caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Raytheon Merger, and the ongoing cost reduction efforts. We expect to incur additional restructuring and other charges of $40 million to complete these actions. We are targeting to complete in 2021 the majority of actions initiated in 2020. We expect recurring pre-tax savings in continuing operations related to these actions to reach approximately $1.1 billion annually within one to two years. Approximately 80% of the total pre-tax charge will require cash payments, which we have funded and expect to continue to fund with cash generated from operations. During 2020, we had cash outflows of approximately $400 million related to the 2020 actions.
2019 Actions. During 2020 and 2019, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring charges of $10 million and $162 million, respectively, for actions initiated in 2019. We expect to incur additional restructuring charges of $58 million to complete these actions. We are targeting to complete in 2021 the majority of the remaining workforce and all facility related cost reduction actions initiated in 2019. We expect annual recurring pre-tax savings in continuing operations related to these actions to reach approximately $200 million annually within two years of initiating these actions. Approximately 90% of the total pre-tax charge will require cash payments, which we have funded and expect to continue to fund with cash generated from operations. During 2020, we had cash outflows of approximately $40 million related to the 2019 actions.
In addition, during 2020, we reversed $3 million of net pre-tax restructuring costs for restructuring actions initiated in 2018 and prior. In 2019 and 2018, we recorded $83 million and $158 million, respectively, of net pre-tax restructuring costs for restructuring actions initiated in 2018 and prior. For additional discussion of restructuring, see “Note 14: Restructuring Costs” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

43

Table of Contents
SEGMENT REVIEW
As discussed further above in Business Overview, on April 3, 2020, United Technologies Corporation (UTC) completed the Separation Transactions, and on April 3, 2020, completed the Raytheon Merger with United Technologies Corporation being renamed Raytheon Technologies Corporation. As a result of these transactions, we now operate in four principal business segments: Collins Aerospace Systems (Collins Aerospace), Pratt & Whitney, Raytheon Intelligence & Space (RIS) and Raytheon Missiles & Defense (RMD). The results of RIS and RMD reflect the period operations and segment results for all periods presented.
For a detailed description of our businesses, see “Business” within Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
In conjunction with the Raytheon Merger, we revised our measurement of segment performance to reflect how management now reviews and evaluates operating performance. Under the new segment performance measurement, certain acquisition accounting adjustments are now excluded from segments’ results in order to better represent the ongoing operational performance of those segments. In addition, the majority of Corporate expenses are now allocated to the segments, excluding certain items that remain at Corporate because they are not included in management’s review of the segments’ results. Historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments reflect the impact of these adjustments for all periods presented.
Also as a result of the Raytheon Merger, we now present a FAS/CAS operating adjustment outside of segment results, which represents the difference between the service cost component of our pension and postretirement benefit (PRB) expense under the Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) requirements of U.S. GAAP and our pension and PRB expense under U.S. government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) primarily related to our RIS and RMD segments. While the ultimate liability for pension and PRB costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. Over time we generally expect to recover the related RIS and RMD pension and PRB liabilities through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. government. Because the Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney segments generally record pension and PRB expense on a FAS basis, historical results were not impacted by this change in segment reporting.
Segments are generally based on the management structure of the businesses and the grouping of similar operations, based on capabilities and technologies, where each management organization has general operating autonomy over diversified products and services. Segment total net sales and operating profit include intercompany sales and profit, which are ultimately eliminated within Eliminations and other, which also includes certain smaller non-reportable segments. For our defense contracts, where the primary customer is the U.S. government subject to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) part 12, our intercompany sales and profit is generally recorded at cost-plus a specified fee, which may differ from what the selling entity would be able to obtain on sales to external customers. Segment results exclude certain acquisition accounting adjustments, the FAS/CAS operating adjustment and certain corporate expenses, as further discussed below.
We attempt to quantify material factors within our discussion of the results of each segment whenever those factors are determinable. However, in some instances, the factors we cite within our segment discussion are based upon input measures or qualitative information that does not lend itself to quantification when discussed in the context of the financial results measured on an output basis and are not, therefore, quantified in the below discussions.
Given the nature of our business, we believe that total net sales and operating profit (and the related operating profit margin percentage), which we disclose and discuss at the segment level, are most relevant to an understanding of management’s view of our segment performance, as described below.
Total Net Sales. Total net sales by segment were as follows:

----------------------------- ------- ------ ---- ------- ---- ------ ------- - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Collins Aerospace Systems $ 19,288 $ 26,028 $ 16,634
Pratt & Whitney 16,799 20,902 19,402
Raytheon Intelligence & Space 10,841 — —
Raytheon Missiles & Defense 11,660 — —
Total segment 58,588 46,930 36,036
Eliminations and other (2,001) (1,581) (1,335)
Consolidated $ 56,587 $ 45,349 $ 34,701

44

Table of Contents
Operating Profit (Loss). Operating profit (loss) by segment was as follows:

---------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Collins Aerospace Systems $ 1,466 $ 4,508 $ 2,397
Pratt & Whitney (564) 1,801 1,402
Raytheon Intelligence & Space 1,014 — —
Raytheon Missiles & Defense 890 — —
Total segment 2,806 6,309 3,799
Eliminations and other (111) (140) (69)
Corporate expenses and other unallocated items (590) (367) (340)
FAS/CAS operating adjustment 1,106 — —
Acquisition accounting adjustments(1) (5,100) (888) (513)
Consolidated $ (1,889) $ 4,914 $ 2,877

(1)    Acquisition accounting adjustments in 2020 includes the $3.2 billion goodwill impairment loss in the second quarter of 2020 related to two Collins Aerospace reporting units. Refer to “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
Included in segment operating profit are Estimate at Completion (EAC) adjustments, which relate to changes in operating profit and margin due to revisions to total estimated revenues and costs at completion. These changes reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. For a full description of our EAC process, refer to “Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Given that we have thousands of individual contracts and given the types and complexity of the assumptions and estimates we must make on an on-going basis, we have both favorable and unfavorable EAC adjustments. We had the following aggregate EAC adjustments for the periods presented:

------------------------- ------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- - ----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Gross favorable $ 994 $ 419 $ 579
Gross unfavorable (1,637) (488) (629)
Total net EAC adjustments $ (643) $ (69) $ (50)

As a result of the Raytheon Merger, RIS’s and RMD’s long-term contracts that are accounted for on a percentage of completion basis, were reset to zero percent complete as of the merger date since only the unperformed portion of the contract at the merger date represents an obligation of the Company. This has had the impact of reducing gross favorable and unfavorable EAC adjustments for these segments in the short-term, with the exception of EAC adjustments related to loss reserves. The change in net EAC adjustments of $574 million in 2020 compared 2019 was primarily due to an increase in net unfavorable EAC adjustments of $544 million at Pratt & Whitney, principally due to the current economic and operating environment primarily driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. Net EAC adjustments in 2019 were relatively consistent with 2018. Significant EAC adjustments in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are discussed in each business segment’s discussion below. Refer to the individual segment results for further information.
Defense Backlog and Defense Bookings. We believe defense backlog and defense bookings are relevant to an understanding of management’s view of our defense operations’ performance. Our defense operations consist primarily of our RIS and RMD businesses and operations in the defense businesses within our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney segments. Defense backlog was approximately $67.3 billion and $22.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, out of total backlog, including commercial, of $150.1 billion and $111.7 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Defense bookings were approximately $31.2 billion, $16.9 billion and $14.1 billion for 2020, 2019 and 2018 respectively.
Defense backlog, which is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations for our defense contracts, represents the dollar value of firm orders for which work has not been performed and excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., IDIQ type contracts). Defense backlog is affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.
Defense bookings generally represent the dollar value of new external defense contracts awarded to us during the reporting period and include firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated. We believe defense bookings are an important measure of future performance for our defense operations and are an indicator of potential future changes in these operations’ total net sales, because we cannot record revenues under a new contract without first having a booking in the current or a preceding period.
Defense bookings exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., IDIQ type contracts), and are reduced for contract cancellations and terminations of bookings recognized in the current period. We reflect contract cancellations and terminations from prior year bookings, as well as the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates,

45

Table of Contents
directly as an adjustment to backlog in the period in which the cancellation or termination occurs and the impact is determinable. Contract cancellations and terminations also include contract underruns on cost-type programs.
Defense bookings are impacted by the timing and amounts of awards in a given period, which are subject to numerous factors, including: (1) the desired capability by the customer and urgency of customer needs, (2) customer budgets and other fiscal constraints, (3) political and economic and other environmental factors, (4) the timing of customer negotiations, (5) the timing of governmental approvals and notifications, and (6) the timing of option exercises or increases in scope. In addition, due to these factors, quarterly bookings tend to fluctuate from period to period, particularly on a segment basis. As a result, we believe comparing bookings on a quarterly basis or for periods less than one year is less meaningful than for longer periods and that shorter term changes in bookings may not necessarily indicate a material trend.

Collins Aerospace Systems

------------------------ ----- ------ ---- ----- ---- ------ ----------------------- - ----------------------- ------ - ---- - -- -
 % Change
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 compared with 2019 2019 compared with 2018
Net Sales $ 19,288 $ 26,028 $ 16,634 (26) % 56 %
Operating Profit 1,466 4,508 2,397 (67) % 88 %
Operating Profit Margins 7.6 % 17.3 % 14.4 %

2020 Compared with 2019

--------------------- ------------------------------------ ------- ------------- --- ------------------------------- -- ------------------ ---- ----- ----- ------------ - --- ------- - - -------
 Factors Contributing to Total Change
(dollars in millions) Organic(1) FXTranslation Acquisitions /Divestitures, net RestructuringCosts Other Total Change
Net Sales $ (6,554) $ 15 $ (201) $ — $ — $ (6,740)

Operating Profit (3,598) (1) $ (12) (258) 827 (3,042)

2019 Compared with 2018

--------------------- ------------------------------------ ----- ------------- -- ------------------------------- ---- ------------------ ----- ----- ------------ ---- - ----- - - - -----
 Factors Contributing to Total Change
(dollars in millions) Organic(1) FXTranslation Acquisitions /Divestitures, net RestructuringCosts Other Total Change
Net Sales $ 1,068 $ (72) $ 8,398 $ — $ — $ 9,394

Operating Profit 47 32 2,005 58 (31) 2,111

(1)    We provide the organic change in net sales and operating profit for our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney segments. We believe that these measures are useful to investors because they provide transparency to the underlying performance of our business, which allows for better year-over-year comparability. The organic change excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; acquisitions and divestitures, net; restructuring costs and other significant non-recurring and non-operational items. A reconciliation of these measures to reported U.S. GAAP amounts is provided in the table above.
2020 Compared with 2019
The organic sales decrease of $6.6 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily relates to lower commercial aerospace OEM sales of $3.7 billion and lower commercial aerospace aftermarket sales of $3.4 billion, including declines across all aftermarket sales channels. These reductions were primarily due to the current economic environment principally driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has resulted in lower flight hours, aircraft fleet utilization and commercial OEM deliveries. This decrease was partially offset by higher military sales of $0.6 billion. Included in the organic sales decrease were lower commercial aerospace OEM and aftermarket sales of approximately $1.0 billion related to the Boeing 737 Max program and fewer upgrades due to certain regulatory mandates that were primarily completed in early 2020.
The organic profit decrease of $3.6 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 is primarily due to lower commercial aerospace operating profit of $4.0 billion principally driven by the lower commercial aerospace OEM and aftermarket sales volume discussed above. Included in the lower commercial OEM operating profit were $157 million of significant unfavorable adjustments principally driven by the expected acceleration of fleet retirements of a certain aircraft. The decrease was partially offset by lower Research and development expenses of $0.2 billion, which includes the impact of cost reduction initiatives. Included in the operating profit decrease was $125 million of increased estimates of expected credit losses due to customer bankruptcies and additional allowances for credit losses.
Included in organic profit in 2020 was other income of $72 million related to foreign government wage subsidies due to COVID-19 and $12 million related to the favorable impact of a contract related matter in the first quarter of 2020.

46

Table of Contents
The decrease in net sales and operating profit due to acquisitions / divestitures, net primarily relates to the sale of our Collins Aerospace military GPS and space-based precision optics businesses in the third quarter of 2020 as further discussed in “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
The increase in Other operating profit of $0.8 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily relates to gains of $595 million on the sales of the Collins Aerospace businesses discussed above, the absence of prior year amortization of inventory fair value step-up associated with the Rockwell Acquisition of $181 million and the absence of a prior year loss on the sale of a business of $25 million.
2019 Compared with 2018
The organic sales increase of $1.1 billion in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily reflects higher commercial aerospace aftermarket sales of $0.8 billion and higher military sales of $0.4 billion, partially offset by lower commercial aerospace OEM sales of $0.1 billion.
Organic profit in 2019 was relatively consistent compared to 2018. Included in the change in organic profit was higher commercial aerospace margin contribution of $0.2 billion driven by the commercial aftermarket sales growth noted above partially offset by lower commercial aerospace OEM margin contribution, and higher military margin contribution of $0.1 billion driven by the sales growth noted above. This increase was partially offset by higher Selling, general and administrative expenses of $0.2 billion and higher Research and development costs of $0.1 billion.
The increase in net sales and operating profit due to acquisitions / divestitures, net primarily relates to the acquisition of Rockwell Collins in 2018 as further discussed in “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Pratt & Whitney

------------------------ ----- ------ ----- --- ------ ----------------------- ------ ----------------------- ---- - - -
 % Change
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 compared with 2019 2019 compared with 2018
Net Sales $ 16,799 $ 20,902 $ 19,402 (20) % 8 %
Operating Profit (564) 1,801 1,402 (131) % 28 %
Operating Profit Margins (3.4) % 8.6 % 7.2 %

2020 Compared with 2019

--------------------- ------------------------------------ ------- ---------------- --- ------------------------------- ---- ------------------ ----- ---- ------------ ----- - ------- - - - -------
 Factors Contributing to Total Change
(dollars in millions) Organic(1) FXTranslation(2) Acquisitions /Divestitures, net RestructuringCosts Other Total Change
Net Sales $ (4,080) $ (23) $ — $ — $ — $ (4,103)

Operating Profit (2,126) (5) — (47) (187) (2,365)

2019 Compared with 2018

--------------------- ------------------------------------ ----- ---------------- --- ------------------------------- ---- ------------------ ----- ----- ------------ --- - --- - - - -----
 Factors Contributing to Total Change
(dollars in millions) Organic(1) FXTranslation(2) Acquisitions /Divestitures, net RestructuringCosts Other Total Change
Net Sales $ 1,576 $ (48) $ (28) $ — $ — $ 1,500

Operating Profit 228 (7) (7) (140) 325 399

(1)    We provide the organic change in net sales and operating profit for our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney segments. We believe that these measures are useful to investors because they provide transparency to the underlying performance of our business, which allows for better year-over-year comparability. The organic change excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; acquisitions and divestitures, net; restructuring costs and other significant non-recurring and non-operational items. A reconciliation of these measures to reported U.S. GAAP amounts is provided in the table above.
(2)    For Pratt & Whitney only, the transactional impact of foreign exchange hedging at Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC) has been netted against the translational foreign exchange impact for presentation purposes in the table above. For all other segments these foreign exchange transactional impacts are included within the organic/operational caption in their respective tables. Due to its significance to Pratt & Whitney’s overall operating results, we believe it is useful to segregate the foreign exchange transactional impact in order to clearly identify the underlying financial performance.
2020 Compared with 2019
The organic sales decrease of $4.1 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily reflects lower commercial aftermarket sales of $3.8 billion, due to a significant reduction in shop visits and related spare part sales, and lower commercial OEM sales of $1.1 billion, primarily due to a significant reduction in commercial engine deliveries, all principally driven by the current

47

Table of Contents
economic and operating environment primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic. These declines were partially offset by higher military sales of $0.8 billion primarily driven by an increase in F135 engine sales and aftermarket growth on multiple platforms. Included in the lower commercial aftermarket sales is a $0.4 billion impact to sales from the net unfavorable contract adjustments discussed further below.
The organic profit decrease of $2.1 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily driven by lower commercial aftermarket operating profit of $2.4 billion driven by the sales volume decrease discussed above, unfavorable mix, a $334 million unfavorable EAC adjustment on a commercial engine aftermarket contract due to lower estimated revenues driven by a change in the estimated maintenance coverage period, an unfavorable EAC adjustment of $129 million related to lower estimated revenues due to the restructuring of a customer contract, and $86 million related to an unfavorable EAC adjustment and increased allowances for warranty for legacy fleet related retrofits. The decrease was also driven by higher Selling, general and administrative expenses of $0.2 billion primarily driven by $257 million of increased estimates of expected credit losses due to customer bankruptcies and additional allowances for credit losses. This decrease in organic profit was partially offset by lower Research and development costs of $0.3 billion, which includes the impact of cost reduction initiatives, and other income of $153 million related to foreign government wage subsidies due to COVID-19.
Included in organic profit was an increase in net unfavorable EAC adjustments of $544 million, which included the unfavorable EAC adjustments discussed above and significant net unfavorable EAC adjustments of $62 million based on a portfolio review of our commercial aftermarket programs in the second quarter of 2020 in consideration of the estimated lower flight hours, a change in the estimated number of shop visits and the related amount of estimated costs. Also included was an unfavorable EAC adjustment of $44 million in the second quarter of 2020 on a military program primarily driven by a shift in estimated overhead costs due to the lower commercial engine activity discussed above.
The decrease in Other operating profit of $187 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to an $89 million impairment of commercial aircraft program assets in the current year and $43 million of reserves related to a commercial financing arrangement in the current year.
2019 Compared with 2018
The organic sales increase of $1.6 billion primarily reflects higher military sales of $0.8 billion, higher commercial OEM sales of $0.5 billion, and higher commercial aftermarket sales of $0.2 billion.
The organic profit increase of $0.2 billion was primarily driven by higher military margin contribution of $0.2 billion, driven by the sales increase noted above and higher commercial OEM margin contribution of $0.1 billion primarily driven by continued year-over-year cost reduction and favorable mix on large commercial engine shipments. These increases were partially offset by higher Research and development costs and Selling, general and administrative expenses of $0.1 billion.
The $0.3 billion increase in Other operating profit primarily reflects the absence of a 2018 customer contract settlement.

Raytheon Intelligence & Space

------------------------ ----- ------ ---- - ---- - ----------------------- ----------------------- -- -- --
 % Change
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 compared with 2019 2019 compared with 2018
Net Sales $ 10,841 — — NM NM
Operating Profit 1,014 — — NM NM
Operating Profit Margins 9.4 % — —
Bookings $ 10,243 — — NM NM

NM = Not meaningful
The increase in net sales of $10,841 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020.
The increase in operating profit of $1,014 million and the related increase in operating profit margins in 2020 compared to 2019 was due to the Raytheon Merger. Included in operating profit in 2020 were $124 million of unfavorable EAC adjustments for loss reserves related to a domestic classified fixed price development program in a net loss position, of which $87 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Backlog and Bookings– Backlog was $18,676 million at December 31, 2020 compared to zero at December 31, 2019. The increase in backlog of $18,676 million was due to the Raytheon Merger. In 2020, RIS booked $3,294 million on a number of classified contracts, $236 million to produce and deliver Silent Knight radar systems and spares for the U.S. Special Operations Command, $229 million to perform operations and sustainment for the U.S. Air Force’s Launch and Test Range System (LTRS), $201 million on the Development, Operations and Maintenance (DOMino) cyber program for the Department of

48

Table of Contents
Homeland Security (DHS), $193 million on the Global Aircrew Strategic Network Terminal (Global ASNT) program for the U.S. Air Force, and $157 million for the Military GPS User Equipment Increment 2 Miniature Serial Interface Receiver Card (MGUE INC 2 MSI) program for the U.S. Air Force.

Raytheon Missiles & Defense

------------------------ ---- ------ ---- - ---- - ----------------------- ----------------------- -- -- --
 % Change
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 compared with 2019 2019 compared with 2018
Net Sales $ 11,660 — — NM NM
Operating Profit 890 — — NM NM
Operating Profit Margins 7.6 % — —
Bookings $ 10,041 — — NM NM

NM = Not meaningful
The increase in net sales of $11,660 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020.
The increase in operating profit of $890 million and the related increase in operating profit margins in 2020 compared to 2019 was due to the Raytheon Merger. Included in operating profit in 2020 was an unfavorable net impact of $516 million related to certain international contracts as further described below, and a $25 million net favorable EAC adjustment due to a revised estimate in costs to complete an industrial cooperation agreement obligation on multiple contracts for an international customer based upon an agreement signed in the fourth quarter of 2020.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, RMD reversed $119 million of sales for work performed subsequent to the date of the Raytheon Merger through the end of the third quarter of 2020, and the related operating profit, on our direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions with a certain Middle East customer, for which we have not yet obtained regulatory approval. As discussed in the “Other Matters” subsection of the “Business Overview” section above, due to the recent U.S. presidential and congressional election and the resulting uncertainty surrounding U.S. foreign policy on direct commercial sales for precision guided munitions with this customer, we determined that it is no longer probable that we will be able to obtain regulatory approvals for these contracts. RMD also recognized an unfavorable profit impact of $516 million related to these contracts, primarily related to inventory In addition, we reversed $755 million of backlog on these contracts.
Backlog and Bookings– Backlog was $29,593 million at December 31, 2020 compared to zero at December 31, 2019. The increase in backlog of $29,593 million was due to the Raytheon Merger. In 2020, RMD booked $2,426 million on the Army Navy/Transportable Radar Surveillance-Model 2 (AN/TPY-2) radar program for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), $351 million for Standard Missile-3 (SM-3) for the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) and an international customer, $340 million for StormBreaker for the U.S. Air Force, $268 million for the AN/TPY-2 radar sustainment program for the MDA, and $237 million for Tube-launched, Optically-tracked, Wireless-guided (TOW) missiles for the U.S. Army and international customers. RMD also booked $1,503 million on a number of classified contracts, including $354 million on a major contract. In 2020, RMD recorded a backlog adjustment of $755 million on certain international contracts as discussed above.

Eliminations and other
Eliminations and other reflects the elimination of sales, other income and operating profit transacted between segments, as well as the operating results of certain smaller non-reportable business segments, including Forcepoint, LLC, which was acquired as part of the Raytheon Merger and subsequently disposed of in January 2021, as further discussed in “Note 2: Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

----------------------------- --------- ------- ---------------- -- ---- ------- ---- ---- ------- ---- -- ----- --- - ----- - -----
 Net Sales Operating Profit
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Inter-segment eliminations $ (2,528) $ (1,594) $ (1,347) $ (83) $ (208) $ (181)
Other non-reportable segments 527 13 12 (28) 68 112
Eliminations and other $ (2,001) $ (1,581) $ (1,335) $ (111) $ (140) $ (69)

The increase in inter-segment eliminations sales in 2020 compared to 2019, was primarily due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020.

49

Table of Contents
The increase in other non-reportable segment sales in 2020 compared to 2019, was primarily related to Forcepoint sales.
The decrease in other non-reportable segments operating profit in 2020 compared to 2019, was primarily due to the impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by operating profit related to Forcepoint.
Other non-reportable segment sales in 2019 were relatively consistent with 2018.
The decrease in other non-reportable segments operating profit in 2019 compared to 2018, was primarily due to the impact of foreign currency translation.

Corporate expenses and other unallocated items
Corporate expenses and other unallocated items consists of costs and certain other unallowable corporate costs not considered part of management’s evaluation of reportable segment operating performance including restructuring and merger costs related to the Raytheon Merger, net costs associated with corporate research and development, including the Lower Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor (LTAMDS) program which was acquired as part of the Raytheon Merger, and certain reserves. See Restructuring Costs, above, for a more detailed discussion of our restructuring costs.

---------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Corporate expenses and other unallocated items $ (590) $ (367) $ (340)

The change in Corporate expenses and other unallocated items of $223 million for 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily driven by increased restructuring costs of $201 million, $130 million of net expenses related to the LTAMDS project acquired as part of the Raytheon Merger and an increase in merger-related costs for the Raytheon Merger of $82 million, partially offset by $40 million of merger-related costs for the Rockwell Acquisition in 2019 and other unallocated items with no individual or common significant driver.
Corporate expenses and other unallocated items in 2019 was relatively consistent with 2018. Included in the change were merger-related costs for the Raytheon Merger of $83 million in 2019 and a decrease in merger-related costs for the Rockwell Acquisition of $78 million.

FAS/CAS operating adjustment
The segment results of RIS and RMD only include pension and PRB expense as determined under U.S. government CAS, which we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. government. The difference between our CAS expense and the FAS service cost attributable to these segments under U.S. GAAP is the FAS/CAS operating adjustment. The FAS/CAS operating adjustment results in consolidated pension expense in operating profit equal to the service cost component of FAS expense under U.S. GAAP. The segment results of Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney include FAS service cost.
The pension and PRB components of the FAS/CAS operating adjustment were as follows:

---------------------------- ----- ----- ---- - ---- - - - -
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
FAS service cost (expense) $ (354) $ — $ —
CAS expense 1,460 — —
FAS/CAS operating adjustment $ 1,106 $ — $ —

The change in our FAS/CAS operating adjustment of $1,106 million in 2020 compared to 2019 was due to the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020.

Acquisition accounting adjustments
Acquisition accounting adjustments include the amortization of acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions, the amortization of the property, plant and equipment fair value adjustment acquired through acquisitions and the amortization of customer contractual obligations related to loss making or below market contracts acquired. These adjustments are not considered part of management’s evaluation of segment results.

50

Table of Contents
The components of Acquisition accounting adjustments were as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- ---- ----- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Goodwill impairment charge $ (3,183) $ — $ —
Amortization of acquired intangibles (2,142) (1,211) (689)
Amortization of property, plant and equipment fair value adjustment (69) (23) (76)
Amortization of customer contractual obligations related to acquired loss-making and below-market contracts 294 346 252
Acquisition accounting adjustments $ (5,100) $ (888) $ (513)

Acquisition accounting adjustments related to acquisitions in each segment were as follows:

---------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Collins Aerospace Systems $ (3,926) $ (605) $ (235)
Pratt & Whitney (117) (283) (278)
Raytheon Intelligence & Space (394) — —
Raytheon Missiles & Defense (607) — —
Total segment (5,044) (888) (513)
Eliminations and other (56) — —
Acquisition accounting adjustments $ (5,100) $ (888) $ (513)

The change in the Acquisition accounting adjustments of $4,212 million in 2020 compared to 2019, is primarily driven by the $3.2 billion goodwill impairment in the second quarter of 2020 related to two Collins Aerospace reporting units and an increase of $1.1 billion related to the Raytheon Merger, primarily related to the amortization of acquired intangibles. Refer to “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information on the goodwill impairment.
The change in the Acquisition accounting adjustments of $375 million in 2019 compared to 2018, is primarily driven by a change of $370 million at Collins Aerospace primarily related to the Rockwell Acquisition.

LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

--------------------------------------------------- ------- ----- ---- ------ - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019
Cash and cash equivalents $ 8,802 $ 4,937
Total debt 31,823 43,252

Total equity 73,852 44,231
Total capitalization (total debt plus total equity) 105,675 87,483

Total debt to total capitalization 30 % 49 %

We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. Our principal source of liquidity is cash flows from operating activities. In addition to operating cash flows, other significant factors that affect our overall management of liquidity include: capital expenditures, customer financing requirements, investments in businesses, dividends, common stock repurchases, pension funding, access to the commercial paper markets, adequacy of available bank lines of credit, redemptions of debt and the ability to attract long-term capital at satisfactory terms. We had $6.84 billion available under our various credit facilities at December 31, 2020.
As discussed above in Business Overview, in response to the COVID-19, we have taken actions to preserve capital and protect the long-term needs of our business. Although our business has been and will continue to be significantly impacted by COVID-19, we currently believe we have sufficient liquidity to withstand the potential impacts.
The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), along with earlier issued IRS guidance, provides for a net deferral of payroll tax payments. We did not realize any cash flows benefit in 2020, and do not expect an impact to future years’ cash flows, from a net deferral of payroll tax payments. In addition, deferrals of required estimated federal, foreign and state income tax payments due to the CARES Act and other similar state and foreign stimulus incentives only impacted the timing of these payments within the year. The CARES Act, among other things, also contains numerous other provisions which may impact us. We continue to refine our understanding of the impact of the CARES Act on our business, and ongoing government guidance related to COVID-19 that may be issued. We may be entitled to recovery for certain costs through the

51

Table of Contents
pricing of our products and services to the U.S. government; however, we do not believe these costs are probable of recovery at this time, and therefore, have not assumed any recovery within our EACs.
At December 31, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of $8.8 billion, of which approximately 45% was held by RTC’s foreign subsidiaries. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The Company no longer intends to reinvest certain undistributed earnings of its international subsidiaries that have been previously taxed in the U.S. As such, we recorded the taxes associated with the future remittance of these earnings. For the remainder of the Company’s undistributed international earnings, unless tax effective to repatriate, RTC will continue to permanently reinvest these earnings. We repatriated $2.3 billion and $1.6 billion of cash for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
On occasion, we are required to maintain cash deposits with certain banks with respect to contractual obligations related to acquisitions or divestitures or other legal obligations. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the amount of such restricted cash was $30 million and $24 million respectively.
Historically, our strong credit ratings and financial position have enabled us to issue long-term debt at favorable market rates.
As of December 31, 2020, our maximum commercial paper borrowing limit was $5.0 billion as the commercial paper is backed by our $5.0 billion revolving credit agreement. We had $160 million of commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 2020. The maximum amount of short-term commercial paper borrowings outstanding at any point in time during the year ended December 31, 2020 was $1,904 million. We use our commercial paper borrowings for general corporate purposes, including the funding of potential acquisitions, pension contributions, debt refinancing, dividend payments and repurchases of our common stock. The commercial paper notes outstanding have original maturities of not more than 90 days from the date of issuance.
In preparation for and in anticipation of the Separation Transactions, the Distributions and the Raytheon Merger, the Company entered into and terminated a number of credit agreements. Refer to “Note 10: Borrowings and Lines of Credit” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
On March 16, 2020, we entered into a revolving credit agreement with various banks permitting aggregate borrowings of up to $5.0 billion which became available upon completion of the Raytheon Merger on April 3, 2020. This credit agreement matures on April 3, 2025. On May 6, 2020, we entered into a revolving credit agreement with various banks permitting aggregate borrowings of up to $2.0 billion. This credit agreement matures on May 5, 2021. As of December 31, 2020, we had revolving credit agreements with various banks permitting aggregate borrowings of up to $7.0 billion, and there were no borrowings outstanding under these agreements.
We have an existing universal shelf registration statement, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on September 27, 2019, for an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities for future issuance, subject to our internal limitations on the amount of debt to be issued under this shelf registration statement.
The Company has offered a voluntary supply chain finance (SCF) program with a global financial institution for more than 10 years, which enables our suppliers, at their sole discretion, to sell their receivables from the Company to the financial institution at a rate that leverages our credit rating, which might be beneficial to them. Our suppliers’ participation in the SCF program does not impact or change our terms and conditions with those suppliers, and therefore, we have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to participate in the program. In addition, we provide no guarantees or otherwise pay for any of the costs of the program incurred by those suppliers that choose to participate, and have no direct financial relationship with the financial institution, as it relates to the program. As such, amounts due to suppliers that have elected to participate in the SCF program are included in Accounts payable on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and all payment activity related to amounts due to suppliers that elected to participate in the SCF program are reflected in cash flows from operating activities in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow. As of December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, the amount due to suppliers participating in the SCF program and included in Accounts payable was approximately $394 million and $460 million, respectively. The decrease from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 is due to decreases in our underlying supply chain purchases. The SCF program does not impact our overall liquidity.
We believe our future operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Further, we continue to have access to the commercial paper markets and our existing credit facilities, and our ability to obtain debt or equity financing, as well as the availability under committed credit lines, provides additional potential sources of liquidity should they be required or appropriate.

52

Table of Contents
Cash Flow—Operating Activities

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 4,334 $ 5,821 $ 2,670
Net cash flows (used in) provided by operating activities from discontinued operations (728) 3,062 3,652

2020 Compared with 2019 - Continuing Operations
Cash generated from operating activities in 2020 was $1,487 million lower than 2019. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in net income after adjustments for depreciation and amortization, the 2020 goodwill impairment charge, the deferred income tax provision, stock compensation costs and net periodic pension and other post retirement (income) expense of $1,950 million primarily driven by a decrease at Pratt & Whitney and Collins Aerospace as a result of the current economic environment primarily driven by COVID-19, partially offset by net income from RIS and RMD following the Raytheon Merger. Included in the decrease in operating cash flows was an increase in pension contributions, as further discussed below, and an unfavorable impact from accounts payable primarily at Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney due to a decline in volume principally driven by the current economic environment primarily driven by COVID-19, which was partially offset by a favorable change in inventory at Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney due to the decline in volume and a favorable change in accounts receivable and contract assets due to the timing of billings and collections in 2020 across our segments.
The Company enters into various factoring agreements with third-party financial institutions to sell certain of its receivables. Factoring activity resulted in a decrease of approximately $1.6 billion in cash flows from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the prior year. This decrease in factoring activity was driven by a decrease in factoring levels at Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney primarily driven by lower sales volume.
2019 Compared with 2018 - Continuing Operations
Cash generated from operating activities in 2019 was $3.2 billion higher than 2018. The increase is largely driven by an increase in Net income after adjustments for depreciation and amortization, the deferred income tax provision, stock compensation costs, and the net periodic pension and other postretirement (income) expense of $2.3 billion and an increase in other long term assets and liabilities cash flows of $1.1 billion, partially offset by a decrease in working capital cash flows of $0.7 billion.
Factoring activity resulted in a decrease of approximately $200 million in cash generated from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the prior year. This decrease in factoring activity was primarily driven by a decrease in factoring levels at Pratt & Whitney, partially offset by an increase at Collins Aerospace.
We make both required and discretionary contributions to our pension plans. Required contributions are primarily determined by Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) funding rules, which require us to fully fund our U.S qualified pension plans over a rolling seven-year period as determined annually based on the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) calculated funded status at the beginning of each year. The funding requirements are primarily based on the year’s expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities, which are dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of market interest rates and actuarial assumptions. We can contribute cash or RTC shares to our plans at our discretion, subject to applicable regulations. As of December 31, 2020, the total investment by the U.S. qualified pension plans in RTC shares was less than 1% of total plan assets.
We made the following contributions to our U.S. qualified and international defined benefit and PRB plans’ trusts during the years ended December 31:

------------------------------------ ---- ----- ---- -- ---- -- -- - --
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
U.S. qualified defined benefit plans $ 885 $ 25 $ —
International defined benefit plans 125 30 79
PRB plans 15 — —
Total $ 1,025 $ 55 $ 79

The contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2020 include a $750 million discretionary contribution to the Raytheon Company U.S. qualified pension plans’ trust. As a result of this discretionary contribution, we do not expect to make any required contributions to our U.S. qualified plans’ trust until 2022.
The contributions to our International defined benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2020 include a $51 million discretionary contribution. We expect to make total contributions of approximately $50 million to our international defined benefit plans’ trusts in 2021, which are expected to meet or exceed the current funding requirements.

53

Table of Contents
Global pension and PRB cash funding requirements are expected to be $370 million, $850 million and $750 million in 2021, 2022 and 2023, respectively, which includes benefit payments to be paid directly by the company.
Operating Activities - Discontinued Operations
The $3,790 million decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities from discontinued operations in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily relates to a decrease in net income from discontinued operations driven by the absence of operating activity for the majority of the year, as the Separation Transactions occurred on April 3, 2020. The $590 million decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities from discontinued operations in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily relates to a decrease in net income from discontinued operations, partially offset by an increase in working capital cash inflows.

Cash Flow—Investing Activities

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ------- --- - --------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities from continuing operations $ 3,343 $ (2,676) $ (17,259)
Net cash flows (used in) provided by investing activities from discontinued operations (241) (416) 286

Our investing activities primarily include capital expenditures, cash investments in customer financing assets, investments/dispositions of businesses, payments related to our collaboration intangible assets and contractual rights to provide product on new aircraft platforms, and settlements of derivative contracts not designated as hedging instruments.
2020 Compared with 2019 - Continuing Operations
The $6.0 billion increase in cash flows used in investing activities in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily relates to cash acquired in the Raytheon Merger of $3.2 billion, the sale of our Collins Aerospace military GPS and space-based precision optics businesses for a combined $2.3 billion in gross cash proceeds and a net increase in the source of cash from customer financing assets of $747 million, partially offset by an increase in cash outflows resulting from the Blue Canyon Technologies acquisition of $419 million.
Additions to property, plant and equipment were as follows:

------------------------------------------ ---- ------- ---- ---- ------- - -------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Additions to property, plant and equipment $ (1,795) $ (1,868) $ (1,467)

Capital expenditures decreased by $73 million in 2020 compared to 2019 as reductions at Collins Aerospace of $321 million and Pratt & Whitney of $257 million were largely offset by increased capital expenditures driven by the Raytheon Merger.
Dispositions of businesses in 2020 of $2,556 million primarily related to the sale of our Collins Aerospace military GPS and space-based precision optics businesses for a combined $2.3 billion in gross cash proceeds.
Increases to customer financing assets is primarily driven by additional Geared Turbofan engines to support customer fleets and was a use of cash of $280 million and $787 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decline within increases to customer financing assets is due to fewer engines added in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease in customer financing assets which provided a source of cash of $368 million in 2020 compared to $128 million in 2019 is driven by a sale and leaseback transaction for the sale of equipment in 2020. Refer to “Note 12: Leases” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of the sale lease-back transaction.
In 2020, we increased our collaboration intangible assets by approximately $172 million, which primarily relates to payments made under our 2012 agreement to acquire Rolls-Royce’s collaboration interests in International Aero Engines AG (IAE).
At December 31, 2020, we had commercial aerospace financing and other contractual commitments, including exclusivity and collaboration payments of approximately $13.4 billion. Refer to “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further details on our commercial aerospace financing and other contractual commitments.
As discussed in “Note 15: Financial Instruments” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we enter into derivative instruments primarily for risk management purposes, including derivatives designated as hedging instruments under the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) and those utilized as economic hedges. We operate internationally and in the normal course of business, are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. These fluctuations can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. We have used derivative instruments, including swaps, forward contracts and options to manage certain foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price exposures. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had net cash receipts of approximately $32 million and $342 million, respectively, from the settlement of these derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments.

54

Table of Contents
In October 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Forcepoint business, which we completed in January 2021, for $1.1 billion in cash.
In December 2020, we completed the acquisition of Blue Canyon Technologies, a leading provider of small satellites and spacecraft systems components, for $426 million, net of cash received. Blue Canyon Technologies is reported in the Raytheon Intelligence & Space segment.
2019 Compared with 2018 - Continuing Operations
The $14.6 billion decrease in cash flows used in investing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily relates to the absence of cash paid to acquire Rockwell Collins of $14.9 billion in November 2018.
Capital expenditures of $1.9 billion for 2019 increased $401 million from 2018. This increase primarily relates to several projects at Collins Aerospace and investments in production and aftermarket capacity at Pratt & Whitney.
Dispositions of businesses in 2019 of $134 million primarily consisted of the businesses sold in connection with the Rockwell Acquisition.
Increases to customer financing assets is primarily driven by additional Geared Turbofan engines to support customer fleets and was a use of cash of $787 million and $988 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in the source of cash related to customer financing assets of $128 million in 2019 compared to $604 million in 2018 is driven by lower repayments on customer financing.
In 2019, we increased our collaboration intangible assets by approximately $351 million, which primarily relates to payments made under our 2012 agreement to acquire Rolls-Royce’s collaboration interests in IAE.
Investing Activities - Discontinued Operations
The $175 million increase in cash flows used in investing activities from discontinued operations in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily relates to a reduction in capital expenditures at Carrier and Otis of approximately $300 million, partially offset by a reduction in investment cash of approximately $135 million. The $702 million decrease in cash flows provided by investing activities from discontinued operations in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily relates to the absence of $1.0 billion in proceeds from the sale of Taylor Company in June 2018 by Carrier, partially offset by a decrease in business acquisition activity.

Cash Flow—Financing Activities

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------- ------- ---- ------- ---- ------- ------- - ------
(dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018
Net cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities from continuing operations $ (3,860) $ (1,913) $ 12,209
Net cash flows used in financing activities from discontinued operations (1,414) (2,651) (4,244)

Our financing activities primarily include the issuance and repayment of short-term and long-term debt, payment of dividends and stock repurchases.
2020 Compared with 2019 - Continuing Operations
Financing activities were a cash outflow of $3.9 billion in 2020 compared to a cash outflow of $1.9 billion in 2019. This change is driven by increases in long-term debt repayments of $13.4 billion, a $4.4 billion change in net cash transfers to discontinued operations, an increase in short-term borrowing repayments of $2.9 billion, and an increase in dividends paid on common stock of $0.3 billion, partially offset by an increase in long-term debt issuances of $19.2 billion. The 2020 debt issuances reflect debt incurred by Carrier and Otis of approximately $6 billion and $11 billion, respectively. The net proceeds of these issuances and draws were primarily utilized by UTC to extinguish Raytheon Technologies short-term and long-term debt in order to not exceed the maximum applicable net indebtedness required by the Raytheon Merger Agreement.
At December 31, 2020, management had remaining authority to repurchase approximately $5.0 billion of our common stock under the December 7, 2020 share repurchase program. Under this program, shares may be purchased on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, under accelerated share repurchase programs, and under plans complying with Rules 10b5-1 and 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We may also reacquire shares outside of the program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of restricted stock and as required under our employee savings plan. We expect to engage in share repurchase activity in 2021. Our ability to repurchase shares is subject to applicable law.
2019 Compared with 2018 - Continuing Operations
Financing activities was a cash outflow of $1.9 billion in 2019 compared to a cash inflow of $12.2 billion in 2018. This change is driven by the absence of $13.4 billion of long-term debt issuances in the prior year which was primarily utilized to fund the

55

Table of Contents
Rockwell Acquisition, an increase in dividends paid on common stock of $0.3 billion and an increase in debt repayments of $0.2 billion, partially offset by an increase in short term borrowings of $1.3 billion and a reduction in common stock repurchases of $0.2 billion.
Our share repurchases were as follows for the years ended December 31:

------------------------------------------ ---- ------ ---- --- ------ - ------ ----- - --- -----
(dollars in millions; shares in thousands) 2020 2019 2018
 $ Shares $ Shares $ Shares
Shares of Common Stock repurchased $ 47 330 $ 151 1,133 $ 325 2,727

Our Board of Directors authorized the following cash dividends for the years ended December 31:

----------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- - -----
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 2018
Dividends per share of Common Stock $ 2.160 $ 2.940 $ 2.840
Total dividends paid $ 2,732 $ 2,442 $ 2,170

On February 6, 2021, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.475 per share payable March 25, 2021 to shareowners of record at the close of business on February 26, 2021.
We had the following issuances of long-term debt during 2020 and 2018, which is inclusive of issuances made by Carrier and Otis which were primarily used by the Company to extinguish certain Raytheon Technologies short-term and long-term debt and, therefore, were treated as a distribution from discontinued operations within financing activities from continuing operation on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows:

----------------- --------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- -----
Issuance Date Description of Notes Aggregate Principal Balance (in millions)
May 18, 2020 2.250% notes due 2030 $ 1,000
 3.125% notes due 2050 $ 1,000
March 27, 2020 Term Loan due 2023 (Otis) (1) $ 1,000
 Term Loan due 2023 (Carrier) (1) $ 1,750
February 27, 2020 1.923% notes due 2023 (1) $ 500
 LIBOR plus 0.450% floating rate notes due 2023 (1) $ 500
 2.056% notes due 2025 (1) $ 1,300
 2.242% notes due 2025 (1) $ 2,000
 2.293% notes due 2027 (1) $ 500
 2.493% notes due 2027 (1) $ 1,250
 2.565% notes due 2030 (1) $ 1,500
 2.722% notes due 2030 (1) $ 2,000
 3.112% notes due 2040 (1) $ 750
 3.377% notes due 2040 (1) $ 1,500
 3.362% notes due 2050 (1) $ 750
 3.577% notes due 2050 (1) $ 2,000

August 16, 2018 3.350% notes due 2021 (2) $ 1,000
 3.650% notes due 2023 (2) $ 2,250
 3.950% notes due 2025 (2) $ 1,500
 4.125% notes due 2028 (2) $ 3,000
 4.450% notes due 2038 (2) $ 750
 4.625% notes due 2048 (3) $ 1,750
 LIBOR plus 0.65% floating rate notes due 2021 (2) $ 750
May 18, 2018 1.150% notes due 2024 (4) € 750
 2.150% notes due 2030 (4) $ 500
 EURIBOR plus 0.20% floating rate notes due 2020 (4) $ 750

(1)    The debt issuances and term loan draws reflect debt incurred by Carrier and Otis. The net proceeds of these issuances were primarily utilized to extinguish Raytheon Technologies short-term and long-term debt in order to not exceed the maximum applicable net indebtedness required by the Raytheon Merger Agreement.

56

Table of Contents
(2)    The net proceeds received from these debt issuances were used to partially finance the cash consideration portion of the purchase price for Rockwell Collins and fees, expenses and other amounts related to the Rockwell Acquisition.
(3)    The net proceeds from these debt issuances were used to fund the repayment of commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes.
(4)    The net proceeds received from these debt issuances were used for general corporate purposes.
We had no issuances of long-term debt during 2019.
We made the following repayments of debt during 2020, 2019 and 2018:

----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- -----
Repayment Date Description of Notes Aggregate Principal Balance (in millions)
October 15, 2020 3.125% notes due 2020 (1) $ 1,000
May 19, 2020 3.650% notes due 2023 (2)(3) $ 410
May 15, 2020 EURIBOR plus 0.20% floating rate notes due 2020 (€750 million principal value)(3) $ 817
March 29, 2020 4.500% notes due 2020 (2)(3) $ 1,250
 1.125% notes due 2021 (€950 million principal value) (2)(3) $ 1,082
 1.250% notes due 2023 (€750 million principal value) (2)(3) $ 836
 1.150% notes due 2024 (€750 million principal value) (2)(3) $ 841
 1.875% notes due 2026 (€500 million principal value) (2)(3) $ 567
March 3, 2020 1.900% notes due 2020 (2)(3) $ 1,000
 3.350% notes due 2021 (2)(3) $ 1,000
 LIBOR plus 0.650% floating rate notes due 2021 (2)(3) $ 750
 1.950% notes due 2021 (2)(3) $ 750
 2.300% notes due 2022 (2)(3) $ 500
 3.100% notes due 2022 (2)(3) $ 2,300
 2.800% notes due 2024 (2)(3) $ 800
March 2, 2020 4.875% notes due 2020 (2)(3) $ 171
February 28, 2020 3.650% notes due 2023 (2)(3) $ 1,669
 2.650% notes due 2026 (2)(3) $ 431

November 15, 2019 8.875% notes $ 271
November 13, 2019 EURIBOR plus 0.15% floating rate notes € 750
November 1, 2019 LIBOR plus 0.350% floating rate notes $ 350
 1.500% notes $ 650
July 15, 2019 1.950% notes (4) $ 300
 5.250% notes (4) $ 300

December 14, 2018 Variable-rate term loan due 2020 (1 month LIBOR plus 1.25%) (4) $ 482
May 4, 2018 1.778% junior subordinated notes $ 1,100
February 22, 2018 EURIBOR plus 0.80% floating rate notes € 750
February 1, 2018 6.80% notes $ 99

(1)    These notes were assumed in connection with the Raytheon Merger and subsequently repaid.
(2)    In connection with the early repayment of outstanding principal, Raytheon Technologies recorded debt extinguishment costs of $703 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, which are classified as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statement of Operations as we would not have had to redeem the debt, except for the Separation Transactions. No proceeds of the notes issued May 18, 2020 were used to fund the May 19, 2020 redemption.
(3)    Extinguishment of Raytheon Technologies short-term and long-term debt in order to not exceed the maximum net indebtedness required by the Raytheon Merger Agreement.
(4)    These notes were assumed in connection with the Rockwell Collins Acquisition and subsequently repaid.
Financing Activities - Discontinued Operations
The $1.2 billion decrease in cash flows used in financing activities from discontinued operations in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily relates to $703 million of debt extinguishment costs related to the early repayment of debt in 2020 and cash distributions made to Carrier and Otis of $2.8 billion, which were more than offset by a change in net transfer activity of $4.5 billion. The $1.6 billion decrease in cash flows used in financing activities from discontinued operations in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily relates to the change in net transfers to continuing operations.

57

Table of Contents
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
Preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant areas involving management judgments and estimates are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ from management’s estimates.
Long-Term Contract Accounting. We recognize revenue on an over-time basis for substantially all defense contracts and certain long-term aerospace aftermarket contracts. We measure progress toward completion of these contracts on a percentage of completion basis, using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion. Incurred costs represent work performed, which correspond with and best depict transfer of control to the customer. Contract costs are incurred over a period of time, which can be several years, and the estimation of these costs requires management’s judgment. We review our Estimate at Completion (EACs) on significant contracts on a periodic basis and for others, no less than annually or when a change in circumstances warrant a modification to a previous estimate. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of the Company’s performance obligations, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment by management on a contract by contract basis. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. The risks and opportunities relate to management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the schedule, consideration of customer-directed delays or reductions in scheduled deliveries, technical requirements, customer activity levels, such as flight hours or aircraft landings, and related variable consideration. Management’s judgment related to these considerations has become increasingly more significant given the current economic environment primarily caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding contract revenue and costs, including estimates of labor productivity and availability, the complexity and scope of the work to be performed, the availability and cost of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation, execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer, overhead cost rates, and current and past maintenance cost and frequency driven by estimated aircraft and engine utilization and estimated useful lives of components, among others. In particular, fixed-price development programs involve significant management judgment, as development contracts by nature have elements that have not been done before and thus, are highly subject to future unexpected cost growth. Cost estimates may also include the estimated cost of satisfying our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes in the form of either offset obligations or in-country industrial participation (ICIP) agreements, required under certain contracts primarily within our RIS and RMD segments. These obligations may or may not be distinct depending on their nature. If cash is paid to a customer to satisfy our offset obligations it is recorded as a reduction in the transaction price. Changes in estimates of net sales, cost of sales and the related impact to operating profit are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis, which recognizes the cumulative effect of the profit changes on current and prior periods based on a performance obligation’s percentage of completion in the current period. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our performance obligations. Our EAC adjustments also include the establishment of loss provisions on our contracts accounted for on a percentage of completion basis.
Net EAC adjustments had the following impact on our operating results:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ------ ---- ---- ---- ------ ---- - ------
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 2018
Operating profit (loss) $ (643) $ (69) $ (50)
Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners (1) (508) (55) (40)
Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations attributable to common shareowners (1) $ (0.37) $ (0.06) $ (0.05)

(1)    Amounts reflect a U.S. statutory tax rate of 21%, which approximates our tax rate on our EAC adjustments.
As a result of the Raytheon Merger, Raytheon Company’s contracts accounted for on a percentage of completion basis were reset to zero percent complete as of the merger date, since only the unperformed portion of the contract at the merger date represents the obligation of the Company. For additional information related to the Raytheon Merger, see “Note 2: Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Costs incurred for engineering and development of aerospace products under contracts with customers are capitalized as contract fulfillment costs, to the extent recoverable from the associated contract margin and customer funding, and subsequently amortized as the OEM products are delivered to the customer. The estimation of contract margin requires management’s judgment. We regularly assess capitalized contract fulfillment costs for impairment.

58

Table of Contents
Income Taxes. Management believes that our earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits, which may be realized over an extended period of time. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided.
In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income, considering the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss carryforwards. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would reduce such amounts through an increase to tax expense in the period in which that determination is made or when tax law changes are enacted. Conversely, if we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, we would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a decrease to tax expense in the period in which that determination is made.
In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying our income tax positions. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. In addition, we have entered into certain internal legal entity restructuring transactions necessary to effectuate the Separation Transactions. We have accrued tax on these transactions based on our interpretation of the applicable tax laws and our determination of appropriate entity valuations. See “Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles” and “Note 13: Income Taxes” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion.
Management has determined that the distributions of Carrier and Otis on April 3, 2020, and certain related internal business separation transactions, qualified as tax-free under applicable law. In making these determinations, we applied the tax law in the relevant jurisdictions to our facts and circumstances and obtained tax rulings from the relevant taxing authorities, tax opinions, and/or other external tax advice related to the concluded tax treatment. If the completed distributions of Carrier or Otis, in each case, or certain internal business separation transactions, were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, the Company could be subject to significant liabilities, and there could be material adverse impacts on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are recorded under the acquisition method of accounting at their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying identifiable net assets of acquired businesses. Intangible assets acquired in business combinations consist of patents, trademarks/tradenames, developed technology, customer relationships, and other intangible assets. The fair value for acquired customer relationship intangibles is determined as of the acquisition date based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the future after-tax cash flows arising from the follow-on revenue from customer relationships that existed on the acquisition date over their estimated lives, including the probability of expected future contract renewals and revenue, less a contributory assets charge, all of which is discounted to present value. The fair value of the trademark and tradename intangible assets are determined utilizing the relief from royalty method which is a form of the income approach. Under this method, a royalty rate based on observed market royalties is applied to projected revenue supporting the tradename and discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. See “Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further details.
We applied these approaches to the valuation of intangibles for the Raytheon Merger, for which the most significant intangible assets identified were customer relationships and tradenames. Specific to these intangible assets, our estimates of market participant future cash flows included forecasted revenue growth rates, remaining developmental effort, operational performance including company specific synergies, program life cycles, material and labor pricing, and other relevant customer, contractual and market factors. For the customer relationships, where appropriate, the net cash flows were probability-adjusted to reflect the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, including cancellation rates related to backlog, government demand for sole-source and recompete contracts and win rates for recompete contracts, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. In addition, the net cash flows were discounted using an appropriate discount rate that requires judgment by management. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired in connection with the Raytheon Merger was approximately $19.1 billion.
Also included within intangible assets are exclusivity assets, which are payments made to secure certain contractual rights to provide products on new commercial aerospace platforms. Such payments are capitalized when there are distinct rights obtained and there are sufficient incremental cash flows to support the recoverability of the assets established. Otherwise, the applicable

59

Table of Contents
portion of the payments are expensed. The gross value of these contractual commitments at December 31, 2020 was approximately $11.6 billion, of which approximately $3.3 billion has been paid to date. We regularly assess the recoverability of these intangibles, which is dependent upon our assumptions around the future success and profitability of the underlying aircraft platforms including the associated aftermarket revenue streams, and the related future cash flows.
Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to impairment testing annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the asset might be impaired. The impairment test compares carrying values of the reporting units to its estimated fair values. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value then the carrying value is reduced to fair value. In developing our estimates for the fair value of our reporting units, significant judgment is required in the determination of the appropriateness of using a qualitative assessment or quantitative assessment. For the quantitative assessments that are performed, fair value is primarily based on income approaches using a discounted cash flow method and relief from royalty method, which have significant assumptions including sales growth rates, projected operating profit, terminal growth rates, discount rates and royalty rates. Such assumptions are subject to variability from year to year and are directly impacted by, among other things, global market conditions.
We considered the deterioration in general economic and market conditions primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic to be a triggering event in the first and second quarters of 2020, requiring an impairment evaluation of goodwill, intangible assets and other assets in our commercial aerospace businesses, Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, we observed several airline customer bankruptcies, delays and cancellations of aircraft purchases by airlines, fleet retirements and repositioning of OEM production schedules and we experienced a significant decline in revenues at our Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney businesses due to a decline in flight hours, aircraft fleet utilization, shop visits and commercial OEM deliveries. These factors contributed to a deterioration of our expectations regarding the timing of a return to pre-COVID-19 commercial flight activity, which further reduced our future sales and cash flows expectations.
In the second quarter of 2020, we evaluated the Collins Aerospace and Pratt & Whitney reporting units for goodwill impairment and determined that the carrying values of two of the six Collins Aerospace reporting units exceeded the sum of discounted future cash flows, resulting in goodwill impairments of $3.2 billion. Collins Aerospace discounted future cash flow estimates were developed for three scenarios: a base case, a downside case, and an upside case. These scenarios included assumptions regarding future airline flight activity, out of warranty hours on original equipment, expected repairs, upgrades and replacements, future OEM manufacturing schedules and related environmental assumptions, including individuals’ desire to return to normal travel, business needs to travel, and potential cures or vaccines to prevent or reduce the effects of COVID-19. These estimates require a significant amount of judgment and are subject to change based upon factors outside our control. We weighted the three scenarios as follows: 50% for the base case, 40% for the downside case, and 10% for the upside case, and used these weightings, as we believed they reflected the risks and opportunities relative to our estimates. Goodwill impairment was not indicated for any of the other reporting units evaluated for impairment in any of these scenarios.
We did not identify any further deterioration to our expectations in the third quarter of 2020, and therefore, did not have a triggering event.
On October 1, 2020, we changed our annual goodwill impairment testing date from July 1 to October 1 to better align with the timing of our annual long-term planning process. This change was not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements as it did not delay, accelerate, or avoid any potential goodwill impairment charges. We completed our annual impairment testing as of October 1, 2020, where we assessed our Pratt & Whitney, RIS, RMD and one of the Collins Aerospace reporting units using qualitative factors to determine whether it was more likely than not that any individual reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying value (step 0) and determined that no further testing was required based on there being no significant changes at RIS and RMD since the acquisition of Raytheon Company and the substantial cushion of fair value over book value at the other reporting units. For the remainder of our Collins Aerospace reporting units, we compared the fair value of the reporting units to their respective carrying values (step 1), and determined that no additional adjustments to the carrying value of goodwill were necessary.
Based on our annual impairment analysis as of October 1, 2020, the reporting unit that was closest to impairment was a reporting unit at Collins Aerospace with a fair value in excess of book value, including goodwill, of $1.2 billion or 7%. All other factors equal, if the discount rate used for the annual impairment analysis increased by 25 basis points, the fair value in excess of book value for the Collins Aerospace reporting unit would have been approximately $0.3 billion or 2%. Alternatively, all other factors equal, if the cash flows were decreased by 10%, the fair value for the Collins Aerospace reporting unit would have decreased by approximately $1.8 billion. Material changes in these estimates could occur and result in additional impairments in future periods.
The Company continuously monitors for events and circumstances that could negatively impact the key assumptions in determining the fair value of goodwill, including long-term revenue growth projections, profitability, discount rates, recent market valuations from transactions by comparable companies, volatility in the Company’s market capitalization, and general

60

Table of Contents
industry, market and macro-economic conditions. It is possible that future changes in such circumstances, including a more prolonged and/or severe COVID-19 pandemic than originally anticipated, or future changes in the variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates used in assessing the fair value of our reporting units, including the expected long term recovery of airline travel to pre-COVID-19 levels, would require the Company to record a non-cash impairment charge.
Contingent Liabilities. Our operating units include businesses which sell products and services and conduct operations throughout the world. As described in “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K, contractual, regulatory and other matters in the normal course of business may arise that subject us to claims or litigation. Of note, the design, development, production and support of new aerospace technologies is inherently complex and subject to risk. Since the PW1000G Geared Turbofan engine entered into service in 2016, technical issues have been identified and experienced with the engine, which is typical for new engines and new aerospace technologies. Pratt & Whitney has addressed these issues through various improvements and modifications. These issues have resulted in financial impacts, including increased warranty provisions, customer contract settlements, and reductions in contract performance estimates. Additional technical issues, either related to this program or other programs, may also arise in the normal course, which may result in financial impacts that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Additionally, we have significant contracts with the U.S. government, subject to government oversight and audit, which may require significant adjustment of contract prices. We accrue for liabilities associated with these matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The most likely cost to be incurred is accrued based on an evaluation of then currently available facts with respect to each matter. When no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, the minimum is accrued. The inherent uncertainty related to the outcome of these matters can result in amounts materially different from any provisions made with respect to their resolution.
Employee Benefit Plans. We sponsor domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and PRB plans. Assumptions used to calculate our funded status are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators. They are evaluated annually at December 31 and when significant events require a mid-year remeasurement. A change in any of these assumptions or actual experience that differs from these assumptions are subject to recognition in pension and postretirement net periodic benefit (income) expense reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans require judgement. Major assumptions include the discount rate and EROA. Other assumptions include mortality rates, demographic assumptions (such as retirement age), rate of increase in employee compensation levels, and health care cost increase projections.
The weighted-average discount rates used to measure pension and PRB liabilities are based on yield curves developed using high-quality corporate bonds as well as plan specific cash flows. For our significant plans, we utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic benefit expense by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant discounted projected cash flows.
The following table shows the sensitivity of our pension and PRB plan liabilities and net periodic benefit income to a 25 basis point change in the discount rates for benefit obligations, interest cost and service cost as of December 31, 2020:

---------------------------- ----------------------------------- ------- ----------------------------------- - - -----
(dollars in millions) Increase in Discount Rate of 25 bps Decrease in Discount Rate of 25 bps
Projected benefit obligation $ (2,072) $ 2,183
Net periodic benefit income (7) 8

The discount rate sensitivities assume no change in the shape of the yield curve that will be applied to the projected cash outflows for future benefit payments in order to calculate interest and service cost. A flattening of the yield curve, results in a narrowing of the spread between interest and obligation discount rates and would decrease our net periodic benefit income. Conversely, a steepening of the yield curve would result in an increase in the spread between interest and obligation discount rates and would increase our net periodic benefit income.
The EROA is the average rate of earnings expected over the long term on assets invested to fund anticipated future benefit payment obligations. In determining the EROA assumption, we consider the target asset allocation of plan assets, as well as economic and other indicators of future performance. We may consult with and consider the opinions of financial and other professionals in determining the appropriate capital market assumptions. Return projections are validated using a simulation model that incorporates yield curves, credit spreads and risk premiums to project long-term prospective returns. Differences between actual asset returns in a given year and the EROA do not necessarily indicate a change in the assumption is required, as the EROA represents the expected average returns over a long-term horizon.
Net periodic benefit income is also sensitive to changes in the EROA. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the EROA would have increased or decreased our 2020 net periodic benefit income by approximately $116 million.

61

Table of Contents
We must apply both Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) requirements under U.S. GAAP (as described above) and U.S. government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements to calculate pension and PRB expense. Both FAS and CAS expense use long term assumptions requiring judgement, but the CAS expense calculation is different from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. While the ultimate liability for pension costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. Our CAS pension expense is comprised primarily of CAS service cost as well as amortization amounts resulting from demographic or economic experience different than expected, changes in assumptions, or changes in plan provisions. CAS requires contractors to compare the liability using a discount rate based on the EROA to a liability using a discount rate based on high-quality corporate bonds, and use the greater of the two liability calculations in developing CAS expense. Additionally, unlike FAS, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded. Consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see the Accounting Pronouncements section in “Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
We extend a variety of financial guarantees to third parties in support of unconsolidated affiliates and for potential financing requirements of commercial aerospace customers. We also have obligations arising from sales of certain businesses and assets, including indemnities for representations and warranties and environmental, health and safety, tax and employment matters. Circumstances that could cause the contingent obligations and liabilities arising from these arrangements to come to fruition include changes in an underlying transaction (e.g., hazardous waste discoveries, etc.), nonperformance under a contract, customer requests for financing, or deterioration in the financial condition of the guaranteed party.
A summary of our consolidated contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2020 is as follows:

------------------------------ ------ ------ ---------------------- ------ --------- ------ --------- ---------- ------ ------ ----- - ------
 Payments Due by Period
(dollars in millions) Total 2021 2022-2023 2024-2025 Thereafter
Long-term debt—principal $ 31,470 $ 550 $ 2,805 $ 2,844 $ 25,271
Long-term debt—future interest 19,915 1,328 2,532 2,390 13,665
Operating leases 2,470 632 803 389 646
Purchase obligations 22,111 14,407 6,669 874 161
Other long-term liabilities 3,642 587 2,001 261 793
Total contractual obligations $ 79,608 $ 17,504 $ 14,810 $ 6,758 $ 40,536

Purchase obligations include amounts committed for the purchase of goods and services under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders. Where it is not practically feasible to determine the legally enforceable portion of our obligation under certain of our long-term purchase agreements, we include additional expected purchase obligations beyond what is legally enforceable. Approximately 60% of our purchase obligations disclosed above represent purchase orders for products to be delivered under firm contracts with the U.S. government for which we have full recourse under customary contract termination clauses.
Other long-term liabilities primarily include those amounts on our December 31, 2020 balance sheet representing performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs and expected cash funding requirements under employee benefit programs. Amounts beyond 2023 for cash funding requirements under employee benefits plans are not included. The timing of expected cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management’s estimates over the terms of these agreements and is largely based upon historical experience.
The above table also does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $1,225 million, the timing of which is uncertain, except for $36 million that may become payable during 2021. Refer to “Note 13: Income Taxes” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Refer to “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for discussion on contractual commitments and contingencies.

62

Table of Contents
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. As a result, we have established, and continually update, policies relating to environmental standards of performance for our operations worldwide. We believe that expenditures necessary to comply with the present regulations governing environmental protection will not have a material effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
We have been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), more commonly known as a Superfund, for a number of sites. The nature and extent of environmental concerns vary from site to site and our share of responsibility varies from sole responsibility to very little responsibility. In estimating our liability for remediation, we consider our likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation expense and the ability of other potentially responsible parties to fulfill their obligations. We also lease certain government-owned properties and generally are not liable for remediation of preexisting environmental contamination at these sites. As a result, we generally do not provide for these costs in our Consolidated Financing Statements.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had $835 million and $725 million reserved for environmental remediation, respectively. Cash outflows for environmental remediation were $53 million in 2020, $44 million in 2019, and $41 million in 2018. We estimate that ongoing environmental remediation expenditures in each of the next two years will not exceed approximately $100 million.
GOVERNMENT MATTERS
As described above in “Critical Accounting Estimates—Contingent Liabilities,” our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to audits. Such audits may recommend that certain contract prices should be reduced to comply with various government regulations, or that certain payments be delayed or withheld. We are also the subject of one or more investigations and legal proceedings initiated by the U.S. government with respect to government contract matters. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings, within Part I, and “Note 13: Income Taxes” and “Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of these and other government matters.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24