================================================================================
CIK: 0000070858
Company Name: BANK OF AMERICA CORP /DE/
Filing Date: 2020-02-19
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-31 12:56:19
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Note 24 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Competition
We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product specific basis.
Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs.
Employees
At December 31, 2019, we had approximately 208,000 employees. None of our domestic employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee relations to be good.
Government Supervision and Regulation
The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America.
We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors.
As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries, including minimum capital ratios, supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depository institutions, at least satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act ratings. Failure to be an eligible financial holding company could result in the

 -----------------

 Bank of America 2

Federal Reserve limiting Bank of America's activities, including potential acquisitions.
The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased over the past several years, beginning with the response to the financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Financial Reform Act). We cannot assess whether there will be any additional major changes in the regulatory environment and expect that our business will remain subject to continuing and extensive regulation and supervision.
We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and New York Stock Exchange, among others; our commodities businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); our U.S. derivatives activity is subject to regulation and supervision of the CFTC, National Futures Association and SEC, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).
Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services operations in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and France are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the European Central Bank and Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution and Autorité des Marchés Financiers, respectively.
Source of Strength
Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.
Transactions with Affiliates
Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve’s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving its nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm’s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness.

Deposit Insurance
Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC’s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per customer. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF.
The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The FDIC adopted regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. As of the date of this report, the DIF ratio is below this required target and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit insurance assessments. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory, Compliance and Legal on page 14.
Capital, Liquidity and Operational Requirements
As a financial holding company, we and our bank subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory capital and liquidity guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the FDIC and the OCC. These rules are complex and are evolving as U.S. and international regulatory authorities propose and enact enhanced capital and liquidity rules. The Corporation seeks to manage its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to meet these regulatory guidelines and to support our business activities. These evolving rules are likely to influence our planning processes and may require additional regulatory capital and liquidity, as well as impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design, implementation and board oversight of BHCs’ and national banks’ risk governance frameworks. The Federal Reserve also issued a final rule, which became effective January 1, 2019, that includes minimum external total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) and long-term debt requirements.
For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital in the MD&A on page 46, and Note 17 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1.
Distributions
We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to capital actions, including payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. For instance, Federal Reserve regulations require major U.S. BHCs to submit a capital plan as part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The purpose of the CCAR for the Federal Reserve is to assess the capital planning process of the BHC, including any planned capital actions, such as payment of dividends and common stock repurchases.
Our ability to pay dividends is also affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under the FDICIA. The right of the Corporation, our shareholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries.
If the Federal Reserve finds that any of our Banks are not “well-capitalized” or “well-managed,” we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all

-----------------

3 Bank of America

applicable capital and management requirements, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. Additionally, the applicable federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or BHC, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof.
For more information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, see Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity and Note 17 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries.
Resolution Planning
As a BHC with greater than $50 billion of assets, the Corporation is required by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to periodically submit a plan for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure.
Such resolution plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for the orderly resolution of the BHC and its material entities pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and other applicable resolution regimes under one or more hypothetical scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance.
If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that the BHC’s plan is not credible, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations. A summary of our plan is available on the Federal Reserve and FDIC websites.
The FDIC also requires the submission of a resolution plan for Bank of America, National Association, which must describe how the insured depository institution would be resolved under the bank resolution provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. A description of this plan is available on the FDIC’s website.
We continue to make substantial progress to enhance our resolvability, including simplifying our legal entity structure and business operations, and increasing our preparedness to implement our resolution plan, both from a financial and operational standpoint.
Across international jurisdictions, resolution planning is the responsibility of national resolution authorities (RA). Among those, the jurisdictions of most impact to the Corporation are the requirements associated with subsidiaries in the U.K., Ireland and France, where rules have been issued requiring the submission of significant information about locally-incorporated subsidiaries (including information on intra-group dependencies, legal entity separation and barriers to resolution) as well as the Corporation’s banking branches located in those jurisdictions that are deemed to be material for resolution planning purposes. As a result of the RA's review of the submitted information, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years which could increase operating costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries.
For more information regarding our resolution plan, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 7.
Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority
Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the

Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors’ consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a BHC’s outstanding equity, as well as impairment or elimination of certain debt.
Under the FDIC’s “single point of entry” strategy for resolving SIFIs, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC.
Furthermore, the Federal Reserve requires that BHCs maintain minimum levels of long-term debt required to provide adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution.
For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 7.
Limitations on Acquisitions
The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At June 30, 2019, we held greater than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S.
In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by a financial institution if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial institution would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At June 30, 2019, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S.
The Volcker Rule
The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities’ investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market-making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is required

 -----------------

 Bank of America 4

to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule.
Derivatives
Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation globally. These operations are subject to regulation under the Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and similar regulatory regimes in other jurisdictions, that regulate or will regulate the derivatives markets in which we operate by, among other things: requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives; and imposing derivatives trading transparency requirements. Regulations of derivatives are already in effect in many markets in which we operate.
In addition, many G-20 jurisdictions, including the U.S., U.K., Germany and Japan, have adopted resolution stay regulations to address concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other financial contracts in resolution could impede orderly resolution of global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), and additional jurisdictions are expected to follow suit. Generally, these resolution stay regulations require amendment of certain financial contracts to provide for contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under various statutory resolution regimes and a stay on the exercise of cross-default rights based on an affiliate’s entry into insolvency proceedings. As resolution stay regulations of a particular jurisdiction applicable to us go into effect, we amend impacted financial contracts in compliance with such regulations either as a regulated entity or as a counterparty facing a regulated entity in such jurisdiction.
Consumer Regulations
Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal consumer finance laws to which we are subject, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth in Lending Act and Truth in Savings Act, are enforced by the CFPB. Other federal consumer finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, are enforced by the OCC.
Privacy and Information Security
We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures regarding the disclosure, use and protection of the non-public confidential information of our customers and employees. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to periodically disclose Bank of America’s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties, under certain circumstances. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other laws also require us to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to provide the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. Security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations.
Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or contact customers with marketing offers and establish certain rights of consumers in connection with their personal information. For example, California’s Consumer Privacy

Act (CCPA), which went into effect in January 2020, provides consumers with the right to know what personal data is being collected, know whether their personal data is sold or disclosed and to whom and opt out of the sale of their personal data, among other rights. In addition, in the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) replaced the Data Protection Directive and related implementing national laws in its member states. The CCPA's and GDPR’s impact on the Corporation was assessed and addressed through comprehensive compliance implementation programs. These existing and evolving legal requirements in the U.S. and abroad, as well as court proceedings with respect to the validity of cross-border data transfer mechanisms from the EU, continue to lend uncertainty to privacy compliance globally.

Item 1A. Risk Factors
In the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to our own businesses. The discussion below addresses the most significant factors, of which we are currently aware, that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in Forward-looking Statements in the MD&A on page 22. However, other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could also adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that we may face. For more information on how we manage risks, see Managing Risk in the MD&A on page 42.
Any risk factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, materially adversely affect our liquidity, competitive position, business, reputation, results of operations, capital position or financial condition, including by materially increasing our expenses or decreasing our revenues, which could result in material losses.
Market
Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by the U.S. and international financial markets, U.S. and non-U.S. fiscal, monetary, and regulatory policies, and economic conditions generally.
General economic, political and social conditions in the U.S. and in one or more countries abroad affect markets in the U.S. and abroad and our business. In particular, markets in the U.S. or abroad may be affected by the level and volatility of interest rates, availability and market conditions of financing, unexpected changes in gross domestic product (GDP), economic growth or its sustainability, inflation, consumer spending, employment levels, wage stagnation, federal government shutdowns, energy prices, home prices, bankruptcies, a default by a significant market participant, fluctuations or other significant changes in both debt and equity capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the global financial markets, the growth of global trade and commerce, trade policies, the availability and cost of capital and credit, disruption of communication, transportation or energy infrastructure and investor sentiment and confidence. Additionally, global markets may be adversely affected by natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, cyber attacks or campaigns, military conflict, terrorism or other geopolitical events. Market fluctuations may impact our margin requirements and affect our business liquidity. Also, any sudden or prolonged market downturn in the U.S. or abroad, as a result of the above factors or otherwise could result in a decline in revenue and adversely

-----------------

5 Bank of America

affect our results of operations and financial condition, including capital and liquidity levels.
In the U.S. and abroad, uncertainties surrounding fiscal and monetary policies present economic challenges. Actions taken by the Federal Reserve, including changes in its target funds rate and balance sheet management, and other central banks are beyond our control and difficult to predict and can affect interest rates and the value of financial instruments and other assets and liabilities, and impact our borrowers. A continued protracted period of lower interest rates, or a move to negative interest rates in the U.S., could result in lower revenue, and maintain or increase pressure on net-interest income, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Uncertainty or ongoing developments in connection with the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU, and the resulting impact on the financial markets and regulations in relevant jurisdictions, could negatively impact our revenues and ongoing operations in Europe and beyond.
Changes to existing U.S. laws and regulatory policies, including those related to financial regulation, taxation, international trade, fiscal policy and healthcare, may adversely impact U.S. or global economic activity and our customers', counterparties' and the Corporation's earnings and operations. For example, significant fiscal policy initiatives may increase uncertainty surrounding the formulation and direction of U.S. monetary policy and volatility of interest rates. Higher U.S. interest rates relative to other major economies could increase the likelihood of a more volatile and appreciating U.S. dollar. Changes, or proposed changes, to certain U.S. trade policies, particularly with important trading partners, including China and the EU, have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact financial markets, disrupt world trade and commerce and lead to trade retaliation, including through the use of tariffs, foreign exchange measures or the large-scale sale of U.S. Treasury Bonds. Further, the use of tariffs among countries not directly involving the U.S. could spread and could damage our customers directly and indirectly.
Any of these developments could adversely affect our consumer and commercial businesses, our customers, our securities and derivatives portfolios, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, our capital levels, liquidity and our results of operations. Additionally, events and ongoing uncertainty related to the U.K.'s exit from the EU and the uncertainty related to the transition from Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs) and other benchmark rates to alternative reference rates (ARRs) could negatively impact markets in the U.S. and abroad and our business and/or magnify any negative impact of the above referenced developments on our business, customers and results of operations.
Increased market volatility and adverse changes in other financial or capital market conditions may increase our market risk.
Our liquidity, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition are affected by market risks such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates, fluctuations in equity and futures prices, lower trading volumes and prices of securitized products, the implied volatility of interest rates and credit spreads and other economic and business factors. These market risks may adversely affect, among other things, (i) the value of our on- and off-balance sheet securities, trading assets and other financial instruments, (ii) the cost of debt capital and our access to credit markets, (iii) the value of assets under management (AUM), (iv) fee income relating to AUM, (v) customer allocation of capital among investment alternatives, (vi) the volume of client activity in our trading operations, (vii) investment banking fees, (viii) the general profitability and risk level of the transactions in which we engage and (ix) our competitiveness with respect to

deposit pricing. For example, the value of certain of our assets is sensitive to changes in market interest rates. If the Federal Reserve or a non-U.S. central bank changes or signals a change in monetary policy, market interest rates could be affected, which could adversely impact the value of such assets. In addition, the low interest rate environment and a flat or inverted yield curve could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations, including future revenue and earnings growth.
We use various models and strategies to assess and control our market risk exposures but those are subject to inherent limitations. For more information regarding models and strategies, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Other on page 17. In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated and vice versa. These types of market movements may limit the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and cause us to incur significant losses. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we own securities that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. In addition, challenging market conditions may also adversely affect our investment banking fees.
For more information about market risk and our market risk management policies and procedures, see Market Risk Management in the MD&A on page 71.
We may incur losses if the value of certain assets declines, including due to changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds.
We have a large portfolio of financial instruments, including certain loans and loan commitments, loans held-for-sale, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, available-for-sale (AFS) debt and marketable equity securities, other debt securities, equity method investments and certain other assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value and other accounting values, subject to impairment assessments. We determine these values based on applicable accounting guidance, which for financial instruments measured at fair value, requires an entity to base fair value on exit price and to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in fair value measurements. The fair values of these financial instruments include adjustments for market liquidity, credit quality, funding impact on certain derivatives and other transaction-specific factors, where appropriate.
Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct impact on our results of operations, including higher or lower mortgage banking income and earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures. Increases in interest rates may result in a decrease in residential mortgage loan originations. In addition, increases in interest rates may adversely impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated other comprehensive income and, thus, capital levels.
Fair values may be impacted by declining values of the underlying assets or the prices at which observable market transactions occur and the continued availability of these transactions or indices. The financial strength of counterparties, with whom we have economically hedged some of our exposure to these assets, also will affect the fair value of these assets.

 -----------------

 Bank of America 6

Sudden declines and volatility in the prices of assets may curtail or eliminate trading activities in these assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value these assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk-weighted assets, which requires us to maintain additional capital and increases our funding costs. Asset values also directly impact revenues in our wealth management and related advisory businesses. We receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients’ portfolios or investments in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive performance fees based on increases in the value of such investments. Declines in asset values can reduce the value of our clients’ portfolios or fund assets, which in turn can result in lower fees earned for managing such assets.
For more information on fair value measurements, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on our asset management businesses, see GWIM in the MD&A on page 35. For more information on interest rate risk management, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book in the MD&A on page 74.
Liquidity
If we are unable to access the capital markets or continue to maintain deposits, or our borrowing costs increase, our liquidity and competitive position will be negatively affected.
Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities, as well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the capital markets. We rely on certain secured funding sources, such as repo markets, which are typically short-term and credit-sensitive in nature. We also engage in asset securitization transactions, including with the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), to fund consumer lending activities. Our liquidity could be adversely affected by any inability to access the capital markets, illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets, the decrease in value of eligible collateral or increased collateral requirements, including as a result of credit concerns for short-term borrowing, changes to our relationships with our funding providers based on real or perceived changes in our risk profile, prolonged federal government shutdowns, or changes in regulations, guidance or GSE status that impact our funding avenues or ability to access certain funding sources. Additionally, the unwillingness or inability of the Federal Reserve to act as lender of last resort, unexpected simultaneous draws on lines of credit, restricted access to the assets of prime brokerage clients, the withdrawal of customer deposits, which could result from customer attrition for higher yields or the desire for more conservative alternatives, increased regulatory liquidity, capital and margin requirements for our U.S. or international banks and their nonbank subsidiaries, changes in patterns of intraday liquidity usage resulting from a counterparty or technology failure or other idiosyncratic event, failure by a significant market participant or third party, such as a clearing agent or custodian, reputational issues, or negative perceptions about our short- or long-term business prospects, including downgrades of our credit ratings may adversely affect our liquidity.
Several of these factors may arise due to circumstances beyond our control, such as general market volatility, disruption, shock or stress, Federal Reserve policy decisions, including fluctuations in interest rates or Federal Reserve balance sheet composition, negative views about the Corporation or financial services industry generally or due to a specific news event, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental fiscal or monetary policies, actions by credit rating agencies or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. The impact of these events, whether within our

control or not, could include an inability to sell assets or redeem investments, unforeseen outflows of cash, the need to draw on liquidity facilities, the reduction of financing balances and the loss of equity secured funding, debt repurchases to support the secondary market or meet client requests and the need for additional funding for commitments and contingencies, as well as unexpected collateral calls, among other things, the result of which could be a liquidity shortfall and/or impact on our liquidity coverage ratio.
Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market conditions, including changes in interest and currency exchange rates, and to our credit spreads. Credit spreads are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of a similar maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can increase the cost of our funding and result in mark-to-market or credit valuation adjustment exposures. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. We may also experience spread compression as a result of offering higher than expected deposit rates in order to attract and maintain deposits due to increased marketplace rate competition. Additionally, concentrations within our funding profile, such as maturities, currencies or counterparties, can reduce our funding efficiency.
For more information about our liquidity position and other liquidity matters, including credit ratings and outlooks and the policies and procedures we use to manage our liquidity risks, see Liquidity Risk in the MD&A on page 50.
Adverse changes to our credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies could significantly limit our access to funding or the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs or trigger additional collateral or funding requirements.
Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are directly impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and seek to engage in certain transactions, including OTC derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by rating agencies, which consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control such as the current economic and geopolitical environment, and to a lesser extent, the likelihood of the U.S. government providing meaningful support to us or our subsidiaries in a crisis.
Rating agencies could make adjustments to our credit ratings at any time, and there can be no assurance as to when and whether downgrades will occur. A reduction in certain of our credit ratings could result in a wider credit spread and negatively affect our liquidity, access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, or bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries, were downgraded by one or more levels, we may suffer the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing, and/or incur increased cost of funds and increased collateral requirements. Under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, if our or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings are downgraded, the counterparties may require additional collateral or terminate these contracts or agreements.

-----------------

7 Bank of America

While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit rating downgrade to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties.
For more information on the amount of additional collateral required and derivative liabilities that would be subject to unilateral termination at December 31, 2019, if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by each of two incremental notches, see Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral in Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For more information about our credit ratings and their potential effects to our liquidity, see Liquidity Risk – Credit Ratings in the MD&A on page 52 and Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bank of America Corporation is a holding company and we depend upon our subsidiaries for liquidity, including the ability to pay dividends to shareholders and to fund payments on other obligations. Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, and actions taken pursuant to our resolution plan could restrict our ability to transfer funds from subsidiaries to Bank of America Corporation or to other subsidiaries, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.
Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries. We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity basis. Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal, regulatory, contractual and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, including the parent company, which could result in adverse liquidity events. The parent company depends on dividends, distributions, loans, advances and other payments from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make payments to us may adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. Our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses. Intercompany arrangements we entered into in connection with our resolution planning submissions could restrict the amount of funding available to the parent company from our subsidiaries under certain adverse conditions.
Additional restrictions on related party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of the parent company and even require the parent company to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Also, regulatory action that requires additional liquidity at each of our subsidiaries could impede access to funds we need to pay our obligations or pay dividends. In addition, our right to participate in

a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. For more information regarding our ability to pay dividends, see Capital Management in the MD&A on page 45 and Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the event of a resolution, whether in a bankruptcy proceeding or under the orderly liquidation authority of the FDIC, such resolution could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the ability to pay dividends to shareholders and to pay obligations.
Bank of America Corporation, our parent holding company, is required to periodically submit a plan to the FDIC and Federal Reserve describing its resolution strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure. In the current plan, Bank of America Corporation’s preferred resolution strategy is a “single point of entry” strategy. This strategy provides that only the parent holding company files for resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and contemplates providing certain key operating subsidiaries with sufficient capital and liquidity to operate through severe stress and to enable such subsidiaries to continue operating or be wound down in a solvent manner following a bankruptcy of the parent holding company. Bank of America Corporation has entered into intercompany arrangements resulting in the contribution of most of its capital and liquidity to key subsidiaries. Pursuant to these arrangements, if Bank of America Corporation’s liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that resolution becomes imminent, Bank of America Corporation will no longer be able to draw liquidity from its key subsidiaries, and will be required to contribute its remaining financial assets to a wholly-owned holding company subsidiary, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the ability to pay dividends to shareholders and meet our payment obligations.
If the FDIC and Federal Reserve jointly determine that Bank of America Corporation’s resolution plan is not credible, they could impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations. Further, we could be required to take certain actions that could impose operating costs and could potentially result in the divestiture or restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries.
Additionally, under the Financial Reform Act, when a G-SIB such as Bank of America Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. In 2013, the FDIC issued a notice describing its preferred “single point of entry” strategy for resolving a G-SIB. Under this approach, the FDIC could replace Bank of America Corporation with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity would be held solely for the benefit of our creditors. The FDIC’s “single point of entry” strategy may result in our security holders suffering greater losses than would have been the case under a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy.
For more information about resolution planning, see Item 1. Business – Resolution Planning on page 4. For more information about the FDIC’s orderly liquidation, see Item 1. Business – Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority on page 4.

 -----------------

 Bank of America 8

Credit
Economic or market disruptions, insufficient credit loss reserves or concentrations of credit risk may result in an increase in the provision for credit losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, letters of credit, derivatives, debt securities, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale. A deterioration in the financial condition of our consumer and commercial borrowers, counterparties or underlying collateral could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Global and U.S. economic conditions and macroeconomic or market events and disruptions, including a continuing slowdown in global GDP growth, a decline in consumer spending, a decline in property values or an asset price correction, increasing consumer and corporate leverage, as well as rising unemployment, fluctuations in foreign exchange or interest rates, widespread health emergencies or pandemics and/or natural disasters, may impact our credit portfolios. In addition, significant economic or market stresses and disruptions could have a negative impact on the business environment and financial markets, increasing the risk that borrowers or counterparties would default or become delinquent in their obligations to us, which could lead to recessionary conditions and/or increase our credit losses and provision for credit losses, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
In particular, increases in delinquencies and default rates could adversely affect our consumer credit card, home equity and residential mortgage portfolios through increased charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A deteriorating economic environment in the U.S. or globally could also adversely affect our consumer and commercial loan portfolios with weakened client and collateral positions. Simultaneous drawdowns on lines of credit and/or an increase in a borrower’s leverage in a weakening economic environment could result in deterioration in our credit portfolio, should borrowers be unable to fulfill competing financial obligations. The impact of this could also be magnified by lending to leveraged borrowers, elevated asset prices and/or declining property or collateral values unrelated to macroeconomic stress.
We estimate and establish an allowance for credit losses for losses inherent in our lending activities (including unfunded lending commitments), excluding those measured at fair value, through a charge to earnings. The process for determining the amount of the allowance requires us to make difficult and complex judgments, including forecasting how borrowers will react to changing economic conditions. The ability of our borrowers or counterparties to repay their obligations will likely be impacted by changes in future economic conditions, which in turn could impact the accuracy of our loss forecasts and allowance estimates. There is also the possibility that we will fail to accurately identify the appropriate economic indicators or that we will fail to accurately estimate their impacts to our borrowers and the reserves that we hold.
We may suffer unexpected losses if the models and assumptions we use to establish reserves and make judgments in extending credit to our borrowers or counterparties prove inaccurate in predicting future events. In addition, external factors, such as the macroeconomic or market events disclosed above can also negatively impact our recognition of credit losses in our portfolios and impact our allowance for credit losses. As of January 1, 2020, we implemented a new accounting standard to estimate our allowance for credit losses. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although we believe that the allowance for credit losses is in compliance with the new accounting standard

at January 1, 2020, there is no guarantee that it will be sufficient to address credit losses, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate quickly and/or significantly. In such an event, we may increase the size of our allowance which would reduce our earnings.
In the ordinary course of our business, we also may be subject to concentrations of credit risk because of a common characteristic or common sensitivity to economic, financial or business developments. For example, concentrations in credit risk may result in a particular industry, geographic location, product, asset class, counterparty, individual exposure or within any pool of exposures with a common risk characteristic. A deterioration in the financial condition or prospects of a particular industry, geographic location, product or asset class, or a failure or downgrade of, or default by, any particular entity or group of entities could negatively affect our businesses and it is possible our limits and credit monitoring exposure controls will not function as anticipated.
While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including broker-dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual funds and hedge funds, central counterparties and other institutional clients. This has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. Financial services institutions and other counterparties are inter-related because of trading, funding, clearing or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even market uncertainty about the financial stability of one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity disruptions, losses and defaults.
Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk and, in some cases, disputes and litigation in the event of default of a counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be heightened by market risk when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due to us, which may occur as a result of fraud or other events that impact the value of the collateral. Further, disputes with obligors as to the valuation of collateral could increase in times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and we could suffer losses during such periods if we are unable to realize the fair value of the collateral or manage declines in the value of collateral.
In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into transactions with sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities. Unfavorable economic or political conditions, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, changes in oil prices, social instability and changes in government or monetary policies could impact the operating budgets or credit ratings of these government entities and expose us to credit risk.
We also have concentrations of credit risk with respect to our consumer real estate, auto, consumer credit card and commercial real estate portfolios, which represent a significant percentage of our overall credit portfolio. Additionally, decreases in home price valuations or commercial real estate valuations in certain markets where we have large concentrations, including as a result of climate change or natural disasters (e.g., rising sea levels, hurricanes and fires), as well as more broadly within the U.S. or globally, could result in increased defaults, delinquencies or credit loss. For more information, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management in the MD&A on page 54.
Furthermore, our commercial portfolios include exposures to certain industries, including asset managers and funds, real estate, capital goods and finance companies. For more information, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management in

-----------------

9 Bank of America

the MD&A on page 60. Economic weaknesses, adverse business conditions, market disruptions, rising interest or capitalization rates, the collapse of speculative bubbles, greater volatility in areas where we have concentrated credit risk or deterioration in real estate values or household incomes may cause us to experience a decrease in cash flow and higher credit losses in either our consumer or commercial portfolios or cause us to write down the value of certain assets.
Liquidity disruptions in the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of our positions, leading to increased concentrations, which could increase the credit and market risk associated with our positions, as well as increase our risk-weighted assets.
For more information on our credit risk and credit risk management policies and procedures, see Credit Risk Management in the MD&A on page 53, Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles, Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Note 6 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
If the U.S. housing market weakens or home prices decline, our consumer loan portfolios, credit quality, credit losses, representations and warranties exposures and earnings may be adversely affected.
While U.S. home prices continued to generally increase in 2019, the rate of increase has slowed compared to recent periods. We remain conscious of geographic markets where housing price growth has slowed or decreased and other geographic markets where housing prices have declined, as further declines in future periods may negatively impact the demand for many of our products. Additionally, our mortgage loan production volume is generally influenced by the rate of growth in residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the residential mortgage market, both of which may be adversely affected by rising interest rates. Conditions in the U.S. housing market during the most recent financial crisis resulted in both significant write-downs of asset values in several asset classes, notably mortgage-backed securities, and exposure to monolines. If the U.S. housing market were to weaken, the value of real estate could decline, which could result in increased credit losses and delinquent servicing expenses and negatively affect our representations and warranties exposures, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected risks and potential losses.
We are party to a large number of derivatives transactions that may expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated and vice versa, may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account or anticipated in the development, structuring or pricing of a derivative instrument. Certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements provide that upon the occurrence of certain specified events, such as a change in the credit rating of a particular Bank of America entity or entities, we may be required to provide additional collateral or take other remedial actions and could experience increased difficulty obtaining funding or hedging risks. In some cases our counterparties may have the right to terminate or otherwise diminish our rights under these contracts or agreements.
We are also a member of various central counterparties (CCPs) in part due to regulatory requirements for mandatory clearing of derivative transactions, which potentially increases our credit risk exposures to CCPs. In the event that one or more members of the CCP defaults on its obligations, we may be required to pay a portion

of any losses incurred by the CCP as a result of that default. A CCP may modify, in its discretion, the margin we are required to post, which could mean unexpected and increased exposure to the CCP. As a clearing member, we are exposed to the risk of non-performance by our clients for which we clear transactions, which may not be covered by available collateral. Additionally, any default by a significant market participant may result in further risk and potential losses.
For more information on our derivatives exposure, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Geopolitical
We are subject to numerous political, economic, market, reputational, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We do business throughout the world including in emerging markets. Economic or geopolitical stress in one or more countries could have a negative impact regionally or globally, resulting in, among other things, market volatility, reduced market value and economic output. Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, financial, social or judicial instability, changes in government leadership, including as a result of electoral outcomes or otherwise, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, high inflation, natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, capital controls, currency redenomination risk, exchange controls, unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, oil price fluctuations and changes in legislation. Additionally, protectionist trade policies and continued trade tensions between the U.S. and important trading partners, particularly China and the EU, including the risk that tariffs continue to rise and other restrictive actions are taken that weigh heavily on regional trade volumes and domestic demand through falling business sentiment and lower consumer confidence, could adversely affect our businesses and revenues. These risks are especially elevated in emerging markets.
A number of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business have been or may be negatively impacted by slowing growth or recessionary conditions, market volatility and/or political unrest. In Europe, the political and economic environment remains challenging due to slowing GDP growth, debt concerns of certain EU countries and elevated recessionary risks, including in Germany and the U.K. The current degree of European political and economic uncertainty could increase and create additional market volatility and negatively impact our business and results of operations. Significant market volatility and geopolitical unrest could also result from ongoing uncertainty related to the U.K.'s exit from the EU and the transition period during which the terms of such exit will be negotiated, which could adversely affect us.
Potential risks of default on or devaluation of sovereign debt in some non-U.S. jurisdictions could expose us to substantial losses. Risks in one nation can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in other nations, including our U.S. operations. Market and economic disruptions of all types may affect consumer confidence levels and spending, corporate investment and job creation, bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer and corporate debt, economic growth rates and asset values, among other factors. Any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on the Corporation.
We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations and governments located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities may be

 ------------------

 Bank of America 10

subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. Furthermore, the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because non-U.S. trading markets, particularly in emerging markets, are generally smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets.
Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by governments, securities exchanges and regulators, central banks and other regulatory bodies. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services and securities industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market or manage our relationships with multiple regulators in various jurisdictions. Our potential inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market and manage our relationships with regulators could result in increased expenses and changes to our organizational structure and have an adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations in that market, as well as our reputation in general.
In addition to non-U.S. legislation, our international operations are also subject to U.S. legal requirements. For example, our operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations relating to bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, and economic sanctions, which can vary by jurisdiction. The increasing speed and novel ways in which funds circulate could make it more challenging to track the movement of funds and heightens financial crimes risk. Our ability to comply with these legal requirements depends on our ability to continually improve detection and reporting and analytic capabilities.
In the U.S., debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, which have increased the possibility of U.S. government defaults on its debt and/or downgrades to its credit ratings, and prolonged government shutdowns could negatively impact the global economy and banking system and adversely affect our financial condition, including our liquidity. Additionally, changes in fiscal, monetary or regulatory policy could increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our business operations, organizational structure and results of operations. We are also subject to geopolitical risks, including acts or threats of terrorism, actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response thereto, state-sponsored cyber attacks or campaigns and/or military conflicts, which could adversely affect business and economic conditions abroad, as well as in the U.S.
For more information on our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios, see Non-U.S. Portfolio in the MD&A on page 66.
The U.K. Referendum, and the planned exit of the U.K. from the EU, could adversely affect us.
We conduct business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa primarily through our subsidiaries in the U.K. France and Ireland. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, including the U.K., represented approximately six percent of our total revenue, net of interest expense.
On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally exited the EU. Upon exit, a transition period began during which time the U.K. and the EU expect to negotiate a trade agreement and other terms associated with their future relationship. The transition period is scheduled to end on December 31, 2020. The ultimate impact and terms of such negotiation and any trade or other agreements remain unclear, and short- and long-term global economic and market volatility and disruptions to regional and global financial markets may occur, including as a result of currency fluctuations and trade relations. There can be no guarantee that the U.K. and EU will reach an agreement on trade or any other matters during the transition period or that the transition period will be extended if agreements are not reached. Additionally, there may be

heightened geopolitical uncertainty and/or market volatility if a trade and other agreements are not reached by the end of the transition period, including with regard to cross-border conduct of financial services and the treatment of existing financial transactions and contracts. If uncertainty resulting from the U.K.’s exit or the end to the transition period negatively impacts economic conditions, financial markets, including currency markets and consumer confidence, or clients, counterparties, and financial markets are not prepared for the trade and other agreements that are ultimately agreed upon or the transition period ends without a trade or other agreements, our business, results of operations, financial position and/or operational model could be adversely affected.
We are also subject to different laws, regulations and regulatory authorities and may incur additional costs and/or experience negative tax consequences as a result of establishing our principal EU banking and broker-dealer operations outside of the U.K., which could adversely impact our EU business, results of operations and operational model. Additionally, changes to the legal and regulatory framework under which our subsidiaries will continue to provide products and services in the U.K. and in the EU following the transition period may result in additional compliance costs and have negative tax consequences or an adverse impact on our results of operations. For more information on our EU operations outside of the U.K., see Executive Summary – Recent Developments – U.K. Exit from the EU in the MD&A on page 23.
Business Operations
A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, including their downstream service providers and the financial services industry, could disrupt our critical business operations and customer services, result in regulatory, market, privacy, liquidity and operational risk exposures, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, as well as cause legal or reputational harm.
The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization and as a result of our interactions with, and reliance on, third parties, including their downstream service providers, and the financial services industry infrastructure. Our operational and security systems infrastructure, including our computer systems, emerging technologies, data management and internal processes, as well as those of third parties, are integral to our performance. We rely on our employees and third parties in our day-to-day and ongoing operations, who may, as a result of human error, misconduct, malfeasance or a failure or breach of systems or infrastructure, expose us to risk.
Additionally, our financial, accounting, data processing and transmission, storage, backup or other operating or security systems and infrastructure or those of third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our or such third party’s control, which could adversely affect our ability to process transactions or provide services. We could also experience prolonged computer and network outages resulting in disruptions to our critical business operations and customer services, including abuse or failure of our electronic trading and algorithmic platforms. We may experience electrical, telecommunications or other major physical infrastructure outages, newly identified vulnerabilities in key hardware or software, failure of aging infrastructure, technology project implementation challenges, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and floods, widespread health emergencies or pandemics and events arising from local or larger

------------------

11 Bank of America

scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts, which could result in prolonged operational outages.
Regardless of the measures we have taken to implement training, procedures, backup systems and other safeguards to support our operations and bolster our operational resilience, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties, including their downstream service providers, with whom we interact or upon whom we rely, including a systematic cyber campaign that results in system outages and unavailability of part or all of the financial services industry infrastructure. Our ability to implement backup systems and other safeguards with respect to third-party systems and the financial services industry infrastructure is more limited than with respect to our own systems.
In the event that backup systems are available and utilized, they may not process data as quickly as our primary systems and some data might not have been backed up. We continuously update the systems on which we rely to support our operations and growth and to remain compliant with all applicable laws, rules and regulations globally. This updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones, including business interruptions. A failure or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure resulting in disruption to our critical business operations and customer services could expose us to regulatory, market, privacy and liquidity risk, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, as well as cause legal or reputational harm.
A cyber attack, information or security breach, or a technology failure of ours or of a third party could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase our costs to maintain and update our operational and security systems and infrastructure, and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause legal or reputational harm.
Our business is highly dependent on the security, controls and efficacy of our infrastructure, computer and data management systems, as well as those of our customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties, including their downstream service providers, the financial services industry and financial data aggregators, with whom we interact, on whom we rely or who have access to our customers' personal or account information. Our business relies on effective access management and the secure collection, processing, transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary, personal and other information in our computer and data management systems and networks, and in the computer and data management systems and networks of third parties. In addition, to access our network, products and services, our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties increasingly use personal mobile devices or computing devices that are outside of our network and control environments and are subject to their own cybersecurity risks.
We, our employees and customers, regulators and other third parties are regularly the target of cyber attacks and are likely to continue to be the target of cyber attacks. These cyber attacks are pervasive and evolving and include computer viruses, malicious or destructive code (such as ransomware), phishing attacks, denial of service or information or other security breach tactics that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction or theft of confidential, proprietary and other information, including intellectual property, of ours, our employees, our customers or of third parties, damages to systems, or otherwise material disruption to our or our customers’ or other third parties’ network access or business

operations, both domestically and internationally. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents and develop our capabilities to respond and recover. Cyber threats are rapidly changing, and despite substantial efforts to protect the integrity of our systems and implement controls, processes, policies and other protective measures, we may not be able to anticipate cyber attacks or information or security breaches, nor may we be able to implement effective preventive or defensive measures to address such attacks or breaches. Even the most advanced internal control environment is vulnerable to compromise. Internal access management failures could result in the compromise or unauthorized exposure of confidential data. Targeted social engineering attacks are becoming more sophisticated and are extremely difficult to prevent.
Our cybersecurity risk and exposure remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature and pervasiveness of cyber threats, our prominent size and scale, our role in the financial services industry and the broader economy. The financial services industry is particularly at risk because of the proliferation of new and emerging technologies, including third-party financial data aggregators, and the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions. For example, our plans to continue our use of automation, artificial intelligence and robotics, increase our internet and mobile banking products, including mobile payment and other web- and cloud-based products and applications, and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, increase our cybersecurity risks and exposure.
Additionally, our continuous transmission of sensitive information to, and storage of such information by, third parties, including our vendors and regulators, our geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, threats of cyber terrorism, external extremist parties, including state-sponsored actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends, and system and customer account updates and conversions result in heightened risk exposure. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, intellectual property and proprietary information, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a critical priority. Cybersecurity risks have also significantly increased in recent years in part due to the increasingly sophisticated activities of organized crime groups, hackers, terrorist organizations, hostile foreign governments, disgruntled employees or vendors, activists and other external parties, including those involved in corporate espionage. The techniques used in cyber attacks change frequently, and these attacks or ensuing security breaches could persist for an extended period of time before being detected. It could take considerable additional time for us to determine the scope, extent, amount, and type of information compromised, at which time the impact on the Corporation and measures to recover and restore to a business as usual state may be difficult to assess.
We also face indirect technology, cybersecurity and operational risks relating to the customers, clients and other third parties, including their downstream service providers and the financial services industry, with whom we do business, upon whom we rely to facilitate or enable our business activities or upon whom our customers rely. Such third parties also include financial counterparties, financial data aggregators, financial intermediaries, such as clearing agents, exchanges and clearing

 ------------------

 Bank of America 12

houses, vendors, regulators, providers of critical infrastructure, such as internet access and electrical power, and retailers for whom we process transactions. As a result of increasing consolidation, interdependence and complexity of financial entities and technology systems, a technology failure, cyber attack or other information or security breach that significantly degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities or third-party or their downstream service providers could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including us. This consolidation, interconnectivity and complexity increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and industry-wide bases, as disparate systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any technology failure, cyber attack or other information or security breach, termination or constraint of any third party, including their downstream service providers, the financial services industry infrastructure or financial data aggregators, could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to conduct day-to-day business activities, effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, result in the misappropriation or destruction of the personal, proprietary or confidential information of our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties or result in fraudulent or unauthorized transactions. Further, any such event may not be disclosed to us in a timely manner.
Although to date we have not experienced any material losses or other material consequences relating to technology failure, cyber attacks or other information or security breaches, whether directed at us or third parties, there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures in place to monitor and mitigate the risks of cyber threats will be sufficient and that we will not suffer material losses or consequences in the future. Cyber attacks or other information or security breaches, whether directed at us or third parties, may result in significant lost revenue, give rise to losses or have other negative consequences. Furthermore, the public perception that a cyber attack on our systems has been successful, whether or not this perception is correct, may damage our reputation with customers and third parties with whom we do business. Although we maintain cyber insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate.
Also, successful penetration or circumvention of system security could result in negative consequences, including loss of customers and business opportunities, the withdrawal of customer deposits, prolonged computer and network outages resulting in disruptions to our critical business operations and customer services, misappropriation or destruction of our intellectual property, proprietary information or confidential information and/or the confidential, proprietary or personal information of certain parties, such as our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties, or damage to their computers or systems. This could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws in the U.S. and abroad, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, loss of confidence in our security measures, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, additional compliance costs and our internal controls or disclosure controls being rendered ineffective. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
Our mortgage loan repurchase obligations or claims from third parties could result in additional losses.
We and our legacy companies have sold significant amounts of residential mortgage loans. In connection with these sales, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies made various

representations and warranties, breaches of which may result in a requirement that we repurchase the mortgage loans, or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to counterparties. At December 31, 2019, we had $10.7 billion of unresolved repurchase claims, net of duplicate claims and excluding claims where the statute of limitations has expired without litigation being commenced.
At December 31, 2019, our liability for obligations under representations and warranties exposures was $1.8 billion. We also have an estimated range of possible loss (RPL) for representations and warranties exposures that is combined with the litigation RPL, which we disclose in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The recorded liability and estimated RPL are based on currently available information, significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will reach future settlements or, if it does, that the terms of past settlements can be relied upon to predict the terms of future settlements. Future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of our recorded liability and estimated RPL, and such losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Additionally, our recorded liability for representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated RPL do not consider certain losses related to servicing, including foreclosure and related costs, fraud, indemnity or claims (including for residential mortgage-backed securities) related to securities law. Losses with respect to one or more of these matters could be material to our results of operations.
For more information about our representations and warranties exposure, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations – Representations and Warranties in the MD&A on page 42 and Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer for residential mortgage securitizations and residential mortgage loans owned by other entities, along with other losses we could incur in our capacity as servicer, could harm our reputation, increase servicing costs or adversely impact our results of operations.
We and our legacy companies service mortgage loans on behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which could cause us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may have liability for any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, for any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our duties. If any such breach was found to have occurred, it may harm our reputation, increase our servicing costs or adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, with respect to foreclosures, we may incur costs or losses due to irregularities in the underlying documentation, or if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower or overturned by a court because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process. We may also incur costs or losses relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in processing documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosure.
Changes in the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets could result in changes to our business operations and may adversely impact our business.
During 2019, we sold approximately $3.5 billion of loans to Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FHLMC). Each is currently in a conservatorship with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing

------------------

13 Bank of America

Finance Agency (FHFA), acting as conservator. In September 2019, the Treasury Department published a proposal to recapitalize FNMA and FHLMC and remove them from conservatorship as well as reduce GSEs' role in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that these proposals will be fully adopted, and it is not possible to predict when the conservatorships will end. If GSEs were to take a reduced role in the marketplace, including by limiting the mortgage products they offer, we could be required to seek alternative funding sources, retain additional loans on our balance sheet, secure funding through the Federal Home Loan Bank system, or securitize the loans through Private Label Securitization. Although the Treasury Department has released an administrative proposal and the FHFA has taken steps to unify underwriting parameters and create a common securitization platform, we cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing of the recapitalization or release from conservatorship or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs in the housing market. Accordingly, uncertainty regarding their future continues to exist.
Any of these developments could adversely affect the value of our securities portfolios, capital levels and liquidity and results of operations.
Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for losses.
Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to effectively and consistently identify, measure, monitor, report and control the types of risk to which we are subject, including strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. While we employ a broad and diversified set of controls and risk mitigation techniques, including modeling and forecasting, hedging strategies and techniques that seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses, our ability to control and mitigate risks that result in losses is inherently limited by our ability to identify all risks, including emerging and unknown risks, anticipate the timing of risks, apply effective hedging strategies, make correct assumptions, manage and aggregate data correctly and efficiently, and develop risk management models to assess and control risk.
Our ability to manage risk is limited by our ability to consistently execute all elements of our risk management program and develop and maintain a culture of managing risk well throughout the Corporation and manage risks associated with third parties, their downstream service providers, and vendors, to enable effective risk management and ensure that risks are appropriately considered, evaluated and responded to in a timely manner. Uncertain economic conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of and change within the financial services industry, the pace of technological changes, accounting and market developments, the failure of employees to comply with policies, values and our risk framework and the overall complexity of our operations, among other developments, may result in a heightened level of risk for us. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to manage change or properly anticipate, manage, control or mitigate risks.
For more information about our risk management policies and procedures, see Managing Risk in the MD&A on page 42.
Regulatory, Compliance and Legal
We are subject to comprehensive government legislation and regulations, both domestically and internationally, which impact our operating costs and could require us to make changes to our operations. Additionally, we are subject to certain settlements, orders and agreements with government authorities from time to

time, which could increase our compliance and operational risks and costs.
We are subject to comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws in the U.S. and the laws of the various jurisdictions in which we operate, including increasing and complex economic sanctions regimes. These laws and regulations significantly affect and have the potential to restrict the scope of our existing businesses, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, including the products and services we offer, reduce certain fees and rates or make our products and services more expensive for clients and customers.
We continue to make adjustments to our business and operations, legal entity structure and capital and liquidity management policies, procedures and controls to comply with currently effective laws and regulations, as well as final rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by regulatory authorities, including the Department of Treasury, Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, Financial Stability Oversight Council, FDIC, Department of Labor, SEC and CFTC in the U.S. and foreign regulators and other government authorities. Further, we could become subject to future regulatory requirements beyond those currently proposed, adopted or contemplated, including rulemaking related to the Financial Reform Act and the U.K.'s exit from the EU. The cumulative effect of all of the legislation and regulations on our business, operations and profitability remains uncertain. This uncertainty necessitates that in our business planning we make certain assumptions with respect to the scope and requirements of the proposed rules. If these assumptions prove incorrect, we could be subject to increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs as well as potential reputational harm. In addition, U.S. and international regulatory initiatives may overlap, and non-U.S. regulations and initiatives may be inconsistent or may conflict with current or proposed U.S. regulations, which could lead to compliance risks and increased costs.
Our regulators’ prudential and supervisory authority gives them broad power and discretion to direct our actions, and they have assumed an active oversight, inspection and investigatory role across the financial services industry. However, regulatory focus is not limited to laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industry specifically, but also extends to other significant laws and regulations that apply across industries and jurisdictions,
including those related to data management and privacy, anti-money laundering, anti-corruption and economic sanctions. Additionally, we are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. and abroad, including GDPR and CCPA, regarding compliance with our privacy policies and the disclosure, collection, use, sharing and safeguarding of personal identifiable information of certain parties, such as our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties, the violation of which could result in litigation, regulatory fines and enforcement actions. Additionally, we will likely be subject to new and evolving data privacy laws in the U.S. and abroad, which could result in additional costs of compliance, litigation, regulatory fines and enforcement actions.
As part of their enforcement authority, our regulators and other government authorities have the authority to, among other things, assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties or restitution and issue cease and desist or removal orders and initiate injunctive actions. The amounts paid by us and other financial institutions to settle proceedings or investigations have, in some instances, been substantial and may increase. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such resolutions, which could have significant consequences, including reputational harm, loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access capital markets, and the

 ------------------

 Bank of America 14

inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time.
The Corporation and the conduct of its employees and representatives are subject to regulatory scrutiny across jurisdictions. Additionally, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of our operations and the aggressiveness of the regulatory environment worldwide also means that a single event or practice or a series of related events or practices may give rise to a significant number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions. Additionally, actions by other members of the financial services industry related to business activities in which we participate may result in investigations by regulators or other government authorities. Responding to inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and proceedings, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the attention of our senior management from our business. The outcome of such proceedings, which may last a number of years, may be difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings.
We are currently subject to the terms of settlements, orders and agreements that we have entered into with government entities and regulatory authorities and may become subject to additional settlements, orders or agreements in the future. Such settlements, orders or agreements can impose significant operational and compliance costs on us as they typically require us to enhance our procedures and controls, expand our risk and control functions within our lines of business, invest in technology and hire significant numbers of additional risk, control and compliance personnel. Moreover, if we fail to meet the requirements of the regulatory settlements, orders or agreements to which we are subject, or, more generally, fail to maintain risk and control procedures and processes that meet the heightened standards established by our regulators and other government authorities, we could be required to enter into further settlements, orders or agreements and pay additional fines, penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions on our businesses.
While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to identify, assess, monitor and report on applicable laws, policies and procedures, compliance risks will continue to exist, particularly as we adapt to new and evolving laws, rules and regulations. Additionally, changing U.S. fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies arising from potential changes to the U.S. presidential administration and Congress result in ongoing regulatory uncertainties. There is no guarantee that our risk management and compliance programs will be consistently executed to successfully manage compliance risk. We also rely upon third parties who may expose us to compliance and legal risk. Future legislative or regulatory actions, and any required changes to our business or operations, or those of third parties, including their downstream providers, upon whom we rely, resulting from such developments and actions could result in a significant loss of revenue, impose additional compliance and other costs or otherwise reduce our profitability, limit the products and services that we offer or our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, require us to dispose of or curtail certain businesses, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. In addition, legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time that may result in fines, regulatory sanctions, penalties, equitable relief and changes to our business practices. As a result, we are and will continue to be subject to heightened

compliance and operating costs that could adversely affect our results of operations.
We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks from potential liability arising from lawsuits and regulatory and government action.
We face significant legal risks in our business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages, penalties and fines claimed in litigation and other disputes, and regulatory and government proceedings against us and other financial institutions continue to be high. Greater than expected litigation and investigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or government action against us could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition, including liquidity, and results of operations, and/or cause significant reputational harm to us. We continue to experience a significant volume of litigation and other disputes, including claims for contractual indemnification with counterparties regarding relative rights and responsibilities. Consumers, clients and other counterparties continue to be litigious. Among other things, financial institutions, including us, continue to be the subject of claims alleging anti-competitive conduct with respect to various products and markets, including U.S. antitrust class actions claiming joint and several liability for treble damages. In addition, regulatory authorities have had a supervisory focus on enforcement, including in connection with alleged violations of law and customer harm. For example, U.S. regulators and government agencies have pursued claims against financial institutions under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act, False Claims Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair Housing Act and antitrust laws. Such claims may carry significant and, in certain cases, treble damages. The global environment of extensive regulation, regulatory compliance burdens, litigation and regulatory and government enforcement, combined with uncertainty related to the continually evolving regulatory environment, may affect operational and compliance costs and risks, which may limit or cease our ability to continue providing certain products and services.
Additionally, misconduct by employees, including improper or illegal conduct, or other unfair, deceptive, abusive or discriminatory business practices, can cause significant reputational harm as well as litigation and regulatory government enforcement action.
For more information on litigation and regulatory matters, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
U.S. federal banking agencies may require us to increase our regulatory capital, TLAC, long-term debt or liquidity requirements, which could result in the need to issue additional qualifying securities or to take other actions, such as to sell company assets.
We are subject to U.S. regulatory capital and liquidity rules. These rules, among other things, establish minimum requirements to qualify as a well-capitalized institution. If any of our subsidiary insured depository institutions fails to maintain its status as well capitalized under the applicable regulatory capital rules, the Federal Reserve will require us to agree to bring the insured depository institution back to well-capitalized status. For the duration of such an agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose restrictions on our activities. If we were to fail to enter into or comply with such an agreement, or fail to comply with the terms of such agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose more severe restrictions on our activities, including requiring us to cease and desist activities permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
Capital and liquidity requirements are frequently introduced and amended. It is possible that regulators may increase regulatory capital requirements including TLAC and long-term debt requirements, change how regulatory capital is calculated or

------------------

15 Bank of America

increase liquidity requirements. Our G-SIB surcharge may increase from current estimates, and we are also subject to a countercyclical capital buffer which, while currently set at zero, may be increased by regulators. In 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposal to implement a stress capital buffer into its capital requirements, which may increase our regulatory capital requirements, if adopted. A significant component of regulatory capital ratios is calculating our risk-weighted assets and our leverage exposure, which may increase. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has also revised several key methodologies for measuring risk-weighted assets, including a standardized approach for credit risk, standardized approach for operational risk and constraints on the use of internal models, as well as a capital floor based on the revised standardized approaches. U.S. banking regulators may update the U.S. Basel 3 rules to incorporate the Basel Committee revisions.
Additionally, Net Stable Funding Ratio requirements have been proposed, which would apply to us and our subsidiary depository institutions, and target longer term liquidity risk. While the impact of these proposals remains uncertain, they could have a negative impact on our capital and liquidity positions. In 2019, U.S. banking regulators published a final rule outlining a standardized approach for counterparty credit risk, which updates the calculation of the exposure amount for derivative contracts under the regulatory capital rule. The final rule will be effective on April 1, 2020, with a mandatory compliance date of January 1, 2022. This rule could have a negative impact on our capital position upon final implementation.
As part of its annual CCAR, the Federal Reserve conducts stress testing on parts of our business using hypothetical economic scenarios prepared by the Federal Reserve. Those scenarios may affect our CCAR stress test results, which may have an effect on our projected regulatory capital amounts in the annual CCAR submission, including the CCAR capital plan affecting our dividends and stock repurchases. Such ability to return capital to our shareholders substantially depends on the Federal Reserve's response to our annual CCAR submission. To the extent that the Federal Reserve objects to our annual CCAR submission or objects to the amount of dividends or stock repurchases proposed, our shareholder returns could decrease.
Changes to and compliance with the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may impact our operations by requiring us to liquidate assets, increase borrowings, issue additional equity or other securities, cease or alter certain operations, sell company assets or hold highly liquid assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be prohibited from taking capital actions such as paying or increasing dividends, or repurchasing securities if the Federal Reserve objects to our CCAR capital plan.
For more information, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital in the MD&A on page 46 and Note 17 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Changes in accounting standards or assumptions in applying accounting policies could adversely affect us.
Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those assumptions, estimates or judgments were incorrectly made, we could be required to correct and restate prior-period financial statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret the accounting standards, the SEC, banking regulators and our

independent registered public accounting firm may also amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various standards should be applied. These changes may be difficult to predict and could impact how we prepare and report our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in us revising prior-period financial statements. For more information on some of our critical accounting policies and recent accounting changes, see Complex Accounting Estimates in the MD&A on page 77 and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws and regulations.
In December 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) which made significant changes to federal income tax law including, among other things, reducing the statutory corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent and changing the taxation of our non-U.S. business activities.
In addition, we have U.K. net deferred tax assets which consist primarily of net operating losses that are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Adverse developments with respect to tax laws or to other material factors, such as prolonged worsening of Europe’s capital markets or changes in the ability of our U.K. subsidiaries to conduct business in the EU, could lead our management to reassess and/or change its current conclusion that no valuation allowance is necessary with respect to our U.K. net deferred tax assets.
It is possible that governmental authorities in the U.S. and/or other countries could further amend tax laws in a way that would adversely affect us, including the possibility that aspects of the Tax Act could be amended in the future.
Reputation
Damage to our reputation could harm our businesses, including our competitive position and business prospects.
Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors and employees is impacted by our reputation. Harm to our reputation can arise from various sources, including officer, director or employee misconduct, unethical behavior, security breaches, litigation or regulatory outcomes, compensation practices, the suitability or reasonableness of recommending particular trading or investment strategies, including the reliability of our research and models, and prohibiting clients from engaging in certain transactions and sales practices. Additionally, our reputation may be harmed by failing to deliver products, subpar standards of service and quality expected by our customers, clients and the community, compliance failures, the inability to manage technology change or maintain effective data management, cyber incidents, inadequacy of responsiveness to internal controls, unintended disclosure of personal, proprietary or confidential information, perception of our environmental, social and governance practices and disclosures, conflicts of interest and breach of fiduciary obligations, and the activities of our clients, customers, counterparties and third parties, including vendors. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry also can adversely affect our reputation. In addition, adverse publicity or negative information posted on social media by employees, the media or otherwise, whether or not factually correct, may adversely impact our business prospects or financial results.
We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy, know-your-customer requirements, data protection, including the GDPR and CCPA, cross-border data movement and other matters. Principles concerning the appropriate scope of consumer and commercial privacy vary

 ------------------

 Bank of America 16

considerably in different jurisdictions, and regulatory and public expectations regarding the definition and scope of consumer and commercial privacy may remain fluid. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied by various jurisdictions in a manner inconsistent with our current or future practices, or that is inconsistent with one another. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession, or in the possession of third parties, including their downstream service providers or financial data aggregators, is mishandled, misused or mismanaged, or if we do not timely or adequately address such information, we may face regulatory, reputational and operational risks which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
We could suffer reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients.
The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to use our products and services, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which could adversely affect our business.
Our actual or perceived failure to address these and other issues, such as operational risks, gives rise to reputational risk that could harm us and our business prospects. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, legal risks and reputational harm, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. For more information on reputational risk, see Reputational Risk Management in the MD&A on page 77.
Other
We face significant and increasing competition in the financial services industry.
We operate in a highly competitive environment and experience intense competition from local and global financial institutions as well as new entrants, in both domestic and foreign markets, in which we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, technology, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Additionally, the changing regulatory environment may create competitive disadvantages for us given geography-driven capital and liquidity requirements. For example, U.S. regulators have in certain instances adopted stricter capital and liquidity requirements than those applicable to non-U.S. institutions. To the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to compete.
In addition, emerging technologies and advances and the growth of e-commerce have lowered geographic and monetary barriers of other financial institutions, made it easier for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products and allowed non-traditional financial service providers and technology companies to compete with traditional financial service companies in providing electronic and internet-based financial solutions and services, including electronic securities trading, marketplace lending, financial data aggregation and payment processing, including real-time payment

platforms. Further, clients may choose to conduct business with other market participants who engage in business or offer products in areas we deem speculative or risky, such as cryptocurrencies. Increased competition may negatively affect our earnings by creating pressure to lower prices or credit standards on our products and services requiring additional investment to improve the quality and delivery of our technology and/or reducing our market share, or affecting the willingness of our clients to do business with us.
Our inability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could harm our business.
Our business model is based on a diversified mix of businesses that provide a broad range of financial products and services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. Our success depends on our, and our third-party vendors', ability to adapt and develop products, services and technology to rapidly evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. There is increasing pressure by competitors to provide products and services on more attractive terms, including higher interest rates on deposits, and offer lower cost investment strategies, which may impact our ability to grow revenue and/or effectively compete. Additionally, legislative and regulatory developments may affect the competitive landscape. Further, the competitive landscape may be impacted by the growth of non-depository institutions that offer traditional banking products at higher rates or with no fees, or otherwise offer alternative products. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services, either from a decrease in the volume of transactions or through a compression of spreads.
In addition, the widespread adoption and rapid evolution of new technologies, including analytic capabilities, self-service digital trading platforms, internet services, distributed ledgers, such as the blockchain system, cryptocurrencies and payment systems, could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services as we grow and develop our online and mobile banking channel strategies in addition to remote connectivity solutions. We may not be as timely or successful in developing or introducing new products and services, integrating new products or services into our existing offerings, responding or adapting to changes in consumer behavior, preferences, spending, investing and/or saving habits, achieving market acceptance of our products and services, reducing costs in response to pressures to deliver products and services at lower prices or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal customers. Our or our third-party vendors' inability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and reputation.
Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could hurt our business prospects and competitive position.
Our performance is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified personnel within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry is intense. Our competitors include non-U.S. based institutions and institutions subject to different compensation and hiring regulations than those imposed on U.S. institutions and financial institutions.
In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, we must provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and other regulators around the world. EU and U.K. rules limit and subject

------------------

17 Bank of America

to clawback certain forms of variable compensation for senior employees. Current and potential future limitations on executive compensation imposed by legislation or regulation could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain qualified employees. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our annual incentive compensation paid to our senior employees has in recent years taken the form of long-term equity-based awards. Therefore, the ultimate value of this compensation depends on the price of our common stock when the awards vest. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified individuals, our business prospects and competitive position could be adversely affected.
We could suffer operational, reputational and financial harm if our models and strategies fail to properly anticipate and manage risk.
We use proprietary models and strategies extensively to forecast losses, project revenue, measure and assess capital requirements for credit, country, market, operational and strategic risks and assess and control our operations and financial condition. These models require oversight, including independent validation before initial use, ongoing monitoring through outcomes analysis and benchmarking, and periodic revalidation.  Models are subject to inherent limitations due to the use of historical trends and simplifying assumptions, uncertainty regarding economic and financial outcomes, and emerging risks from the use of applications that rely on artificial intelligence.
Our models and strategies may not be sufficiently predictive of future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or unanticipated market movements or customer behavior and illiquidity, especially during severe market downturns or stress events, which could limit their effectiveness. The models that we use to assess and control our market risk exposures also reflect assumptions about the degree of correlation among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators, which may not be representative of the next downturn and would magnify the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. Our models may not be effective if we fail to properly oversee them and detect their flaws during our review and monitoring processes, they contain erroneous data, assumptions, valuations, formulas or algorithms or our applications running the models do not perform as expected. Regardless of the steps we take to ensure effective controls, governance, monitoring and testing, and implement new technology and automated processes, we could suffer operational, reputational and financial harm if models and strategies fail to properly anticipate and manage current and evolving risks.
Failure to properly manage and aggregate data may result in our inability to manage risk and business needs, errors in our day-to-day operations, critical reporting and strategic decision-making and inaccurate financial, regulatory and operational reporting.
We rely on our ability to manage, aggregate, interpret and use data in an accurate, timely and complete manner for effective risk reporting and management. Our policies, programs, processes and practices govern how data is managed, aggregated, interpreted and used. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices and implement emerging technologies, such as automation, artificial intelligence and robotics, our data management and aggregation processes are subject to failure, including human error, system failure or failed controls. Failure to maintain and manage data and information effectively and to aggregate data and information in an accurate, timely and complete manner may impact its quality and reliability and limit our ability to manage current and emerging risk, to produce accurate financial, regulatory and operational reporting, as well as to manage changing business needs, strategic decision-making and day-to-day operations. The failure to establish and maintain

effective, efficient and controlled data management could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop our products and relationships with our customers and damage our reputation.
Reforms to and uncertainty regarding IBORs, including the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and certain other rates or indices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could result in reputational harm to the Corporation.
In 2017, the U.K. FCA announced that it will no longer persuade or require participating banks to submit rates for LIBOR after 2021. The continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot be guaranteed after 2021, and there is substantial risk that LIBOR will be modified by 2021 or discontinued thereafter. This announcement, in conjunction with financial benchmark reforms and changes in short-term interbank lending markets more generally, have resulted in significant uncertainty about the potential or actual discontinuation of IBORs, including LIBOR, and certain other rates or indices that serve as “benchmarks.” Such benchmarks are used extensively in the global financial markets and in our business. In particular, LIBOR is used in many of our products and contracts, including mortgages, consumer, commercial and corporate loans, derivatives, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate products and financial instruments. The aggregate notional amount of these products and contracts is material to our business. These reforms and actions may result in significant uncertainty as to future rules or methodologies used to calculate benchmarks, cause new or reformed benchmarks to perform differently from the discontinued benchmarks they are replacing, cause existing benchmarks to disappear or become unavailable or unrepresentative, or have other consequences that cannot be fully anticipated, which expose us to various financial, operational and legal risks.
Certain ARRs have been proposed to replace LIBOR and other IBORs. For example, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of private-market participants and official-sector entities convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has recommended that the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) replace U.S. dollar LIBOR. However, the market transition from IBORs to ARRs is complex and pervasive throughout a number of different types of products and global financial markets. There can be no assurance that ARRs will be adequate alternatives to IBORs, that existing assets and liabilities based on or linked to IBORs will transition successfully to ARRs, of the timing of adoption and degree of integration and acceptance of such ARRs in the global financial markets, or of the future availability or representativeness of such ARRs. Our products and contracts that reference IBORs, in particular LIBOR, may contain language that determines when a successor rate including the ARR and/or the applicable spread adjustment to the designated rate (including IBORs) would be selected or determined. If a trigger is satisfied, our products and contracts may give the calculation agent (which may be us) discretion over the successor rate to be selected. The considerable uncertainty as to how the financial services industry will address the discontinuation of IBORs and/or such IBORs ceasing to be acceptable reference rates in financial instruments could ultimately result in client disputes and litigation surrounding the proper interpretation of our IBOR-based products and contracts. Accordingly, uncertainty regarding ARRs may continue to impact our business, operations and financial condition repeatedly and indefinitely.
The discontinuation of IBORs, including LIBOR, will require us to remediate IBOR-based products and contracts, including related hedging arrangements, that mature after the discontinuation date of the IBOR. These changes may adversely affect the yield on loans or securities held by us, amounts paid on securities we have

 ------------------

 Bank of America 18

issued, amounts received and paid on derivatives we have entered into, the value of such loans, securities or derivative instruments, the trading market for such products and contracts, and our ability to effectively use hedging instruments to manage risk. While some of these outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts include fallback provisions to ARRs, some of our outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts do not include fallback provisions or adequate fallback mechanisms requiring remediation to modify their terms. Additionally, some outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts are particularly challenging to modify due to the requirement that all impacted parties consent to such modification.
In light of the extensive use of IBOR-based products and contracts by us and other market participants, there can be no assurance that we and other market participants will be able to successfully modify all outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts or be adequately prepared for a discontinuation of an IBOR at the time such IBOR may cease to be published or otherwise discontinued. Also, there can be no assurance that existing or new provisions for successor rates in our IBOR-based products and contracts will include adequate methodologies for adjustments between the applicable IBOR and the corresponding successor rate or that the characteristics of the successor rates will be similar to or produce the economic equivalent of the benchmarks they seek to replace. For example, SOFR and other ARRs have compositions and characteristics that differ significantly from the benchmarks they may replace, have limited history, and may demonstrate less predictable performance over time than the benchmarks they replace.
Changes or uncertainty resulting from the market transition from IBORs to ARRs could adversely affect the return on and pricing, liquidity and value of outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts, cause significant market dislocations and

disruptions that are relevant to our business segments, particularly Global Banking and Global Markets, potentially increase the cost of and access to capital, increase the risk of litigation or other disputes, including in connection with the interpretation and enforceability of, or our historical marketing practices or disclosures with respect to, outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts with counterparties, and/or increase expenses related to the transition to ARRs, among other adverse consequences. Additionally, the process of transitioning to ARRs may result in increased costs and may also divert management time and attention from other areas of our business.
The market transition from IBORs to ARRs may also alter our risk profile and risk management strategies, including derivatives and hedging strategies, modeling and analytics, valuation tools, product design and systems, controls, procedures and operational infrastructure. This may prove challenging given the limited history of many of the proposed ARRs and may increase the costs and risks related to potential regulatory compliance, requirements or inquiries. Among other risks, various products and contracts may transition to ARRs at different times or in different manners, with the result that we may face significant unexpected interest rate, pricing or other exposures across business or product lines. Reforms to and uncertainty regarding market transition from current IBORs to ARRs and other factors, including the pace of the transition to ARRs, the specific terms and parameters for market acceptance of any ARRs, prices of and liquidity of trading markets for products based on ARRs, and our ability to transition and develop appropriate systems and analytics for one or more ARRs, may adversely affect our business, including the ability to serve customers and maintain market share, financial condition or results of operations and could result in reputational harm to the Corporation.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None

Item 2. Properties
As of December 31, 2019, certain principal offices and other materially important properties consisted of the following:

---------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------------

Facility Name Location General Character of the Physical Property Primary Business Segment Property Status Property Square Feet (1)
Bank of America Corporate Center Charlotte, NC 60 Story Building Principal Executive Offices Owned 1,212,177
Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 55 Story Building GWIM, Global Banking and Global Markets Leased (2) 1,836,575
Bank of America Financial Centre London, UK 4 Building Campus Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 562,595
Cheung Kong Center Hong Kong 62 Story Building Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 149,790

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) For leased properties, property square feet represents the square footage occupied by the Corporation.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) The Corporation has a 49.9 percent joint venture interest in this property.

We own or lease approximately 76.3 million square feet in over 20,000 facility and ATM locations globally, including approximately 70.7 million square feet in the U.S. (all 50 states and the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Guam) and approximately 5.6 million square feet in more than 35 countries.
We believe our owned and leased properties are adequate for our business needs and are well maintained. We continue to evaluate our owned and leased real estate and may determine from time to time that certain of our premises and facilities, or ownership structures, are no longer necessary for our operations. In connection therewith, we are evaluating the sale or sale/leaseback of certain properties and we may incur costs in connection with any such transactions.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings
See Litigation and Regulatory Matters in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
None

------------------

19 Bank of America

Part II
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “BAC.” As of February 18, 2020, there were 161,882 registered shareholders of common stock.
The table below presents share repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2019. The primary source of funds for cash distributions by the Corporation to its shareholders is

dividends received from its bank subsidiaries. Each of the bank subsidiaries is subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. All of the Corporation’s preferred stock outstanding has preference over the Corporation’s common stock with respect to payment of dividends.

------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------ ------ - ------

(Dollars in millions, except per share information; shares in thousands) Total Common Shares Purchased (1) Weighted-Average Per Share Price Total SharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Programs Remaining BuybackAuthority Amounts (2)
October 1 - 31, 2019 97,540 $ 29.50 97,538 $ 20,442
November 1 - 30, 2019 74,649 32.75 74,649 17,997
December 1 - 31, 2019 70,943 34.19 70,940 15,571
Three months ended December 31, 2019 243,132 31.87 243,127

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes shares of the Corporation’s common stock acquired by the Corporation in connection with satisfaction of tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock or restricted stock units and certain forfeitures and terminations of employment-related awards and for potential re-issuance to certain employees under equity incentive plans.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) On June 27, 2019, following the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System's non-objection to the Corporation's 2019 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review capital plan, the Corporation's Board of Directors (Board) authorized the repurchase of approximately $30.9 billion in common stock from July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020, which includes approximately $900 million to offset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans during the same period. During the three months ended December 31, 2019, pursuant to the Board’s authorization, the Corporation repurchased $7.7 billion of common stock, which included common stock to offset equity-based compensation awards. For more information, see Capital Management - CCAR and Capital Planning in the MD&A on page 45 and Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Corporation did not have any unregistered sales of equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2019.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data
See Tables 6 and 7 in the MD&A beginning on page 28, which are incorporated herein by reference.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 20

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Item 7. Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

---------------------------------------------------------- ----

Table of Contents
 Page
Executive Summary 22
Recent Developments 23
Financial Highlights 23
Balance Sheet Overview 25
Supplemental Financial Data 26
Business Segment Operations 32
Consumer Banking 33
Global Wealth & Investment Management 34
Global Banking 36
Global Markets 39
All Other 40
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 41
Managing Risk 42
Strategic Risk Management 45
Capital Management 45
Liquidity Risk 50
Credit Risk Management 53
Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management 54
Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management 60
Non-U.S. Portfolio 66
Provision for Credit Losses 68
Allowance for Credit Losses 68
Market Risk Management 70
Trading Risk Management 72
Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book 74
Mortgage Banking Risk Management 76
Compliance and Operational Risk Management 76
Reputational Risk Management 77
Complex Accounting Estimates 77
Non-GAAP Reconciliations 79
Statistical Tables 81

------------------

21 Bank of America

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Bank of America Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its management may make certain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as “anticipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “continue” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could.” Forward-looking statements represent the Corporation’s current expectations, plans or forecasts of its future results, revenues, expenses, efficiency ratio, capital measures, strategy and future business and economic conditions more generally, and other future matters. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond the Corporation’s control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements.
You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider the following uncertainties and risks, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: the Corporation’s potential claims, damages, penalties, fines and reputational damage resulting from pending or future litigation, regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions; the possibility that the Corporation's future liabilities may be in excess of its recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation, regulatory and representations and warranties exposures; the possibility that the Corporation could face increased servicing, fraud, indemnity, contribution or other claims from one or more counterparties, including trustees, purchasers of loans, underwriters, issuers, monolines, private-label and other investors, or other parties involved in securitizations; the Corporation’s ability to resolve representations and warranties repurchase and related claims, including claims brought by investors or trustees seeking to avoid the statute of limitations for repurchase claims; the risks related to the discontinuation of the London Interbank Offered Rate and other reference rates, including increased expenses and litigation and the effectiveness of hedging strategies; uncertainties about the financial stability and growth rates of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those jurisdictions may face difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, and related stresses on financial markets, currencies and trade, and the Corporation’s exposures to such risks, including direct, indirect and operational; the impact of U.S. and global interest rates, inflation, currency exchange rates, economic conditions, trade policies and tensions, including tariffs, and potential geopolitical instability; the impact of the interest rate environment on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations; the possibility that future credit losses may be higher than currently expected due to changes in economic assumptions, customer behavior, adverse developments with respect to U.S. or global economic conditions and other uncertainties; the Corporation’s ability to achieve its expense targets and expectations regarding net interest income, provision for credit losses, net charge-offs, effective tax rate, loan growth or other projections; adverse changes to the Corporation’s credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies; an inability to access capital markets or maintain deposits or borrowing costs; estimates of the fair value and other accounting values, subject to impairment assessments, of certain of the Corporation’s assets and liabilities; the estimated or actual impact of changes in accounting standards or assumptions in applying those standards; uncertainty regarding the content, timing and

impact of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements; the impact of adverse changes to total loss-absorbing capacity requirements and/or global systemically important bank surcharges; the potential impact of actions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the Corporation’s capital plans; the effect of regulations, other guidance or additional information on the impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; the impact of implementation and compliance with U.S. and international laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations, including, but not limited to, recovery and resolution planning requirements, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments, the Volcker Rule, fiduciary standards and derivatives regulations; a failure or disruption in or breach of the Corporation’s operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, including as a result of cyber attacks or campaigns; the impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations from the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; the impact of any future federal government shutdown and uncertainty regarding the federal government’s debt limit; the impact of natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, military conflict, terrorism or other geopolitical events; and other matters.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) are incorporated by reference into the MD&A. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Throughout the MD&A, the Corporation uses certain acronyms and abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary.

Executive Summary
Business Overview
The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, “the Corporation,” “we,” “us” and “our” may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation’s subsidiaries or affiliates. Our principal executive offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking, Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank of America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA) charter. At December 31, 2019, the Corporation had $2.4 trillion in assets and a headcount of approximately 208,000 employees.
As of December 31, 2019, we served clients through operations across the U.S., its territories and approximately 35 countries. Our retail banking footprint covers approximately 90 percent of the U.S. population, and we serve approximately 66 million consumer and small business clients with approximately 4,300 retail financial centers, approximately 16,800 ATMs, and leading digital banking platforms (www.bankofamerica.com) with more than 38 million active users, including over 29 million active mobile users. We offer industry-leading support to approximately

 ------------------

 Bank of America 22

three million small business owners. Our wealth management businesses, with client balances of $3.0 trillion, provide tailored solutions to meet client needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world.

Recent Developments
Capital Management
During 2019, we repurchased $28.1 billion of common stock pursuant to the Corporation's Board of Directors’ (the Board) repurchase authorizations. For more information, see Capital Management on page 45.
Merchant Services Joint Venture
A significant portion of our merchant processing activity is performed by a joint venture, formed in 2009, in which we own a 49 percent ownership interest. The joint venture is accounted for as an equity method investment. As previously disclosed in the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2019, we gave notice on July 29, 2019 to the joint venture partner of the termination of the joint venture upon the conclusion of its current term, after which we expect to pursue our own merchant services strategy. In addition, the Corporation and the joint venture partner have an agreement to provide uninterrupted delivery of products and services to the joint venture merchants through at least June 2023. As a result of the above actions, we incurred a non-cash, pretax impairment charge of $2.1 billion included in other general operating expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019. As stated above, the Corporation expects to pursue its own merchant services strategy, which is expected to begin in the third quarter of 2020. Under this strategy, we will begin to record the revenues and expenses from those operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income instead of recognizing our proportionate share of the joint venture's income under the equity method. For more information, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
U.K. Exit from the EU
On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally exited the European Union (EU). Upon exit, a transition period began during which time the U.K. and the EU expect to negotiate a trade agreement and other terms associated with their future relationship. The transition period is scheduled to end on December 31, 2020.
We conduct business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa primarily through our subsidiaries in the U.K., Ireland and France. For information on the changes we have implemented to enable us to continue to operate in the region, including establishing a bank and broker-dealer in the EU, see the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019. While we have taken measures to minimize operational disruption and prepare for various potential outcomes of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU, the preparedness of our counterparties and the relevant financial markets infrastructure remain outside our control. The global economic impact of the U.K.’s withdrawal from
the EU remains uncertain and could result in regional and global

financial market disruptions. We continue to assess potential risks, including operational, regulatory and legal risks.
LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rates
Following the 2017 announcement by the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that it will no longer persuade or require participating banks to submit rates for the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) after 2021, central banks and regulators around the world have commissioned working groups to find suitable replacements for Interbank Offered Rates (IBOR), including LIBOR, and other benchmark rates and to implement financial benchmark reforms more generally. The future discontinuance of IBORs is a complex process that has resulted in significant uncertainty regarding the transition to suitable alternative reference rates (ARRs) and could cause disruptions in a variety of global financial markets, as well as adversely impact our business, operations and financial results.
IBORs, including LIBOR, are used in many of the Corporation’s products and contracts, including mortgages, consumer, commercial and corporate loans, derivatives, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate products and financial instruments. The aggregate notional amount of these products and contracts is material to our business. As previously disclosed, to facilitate an orderly transition from IBORs and other benchmark rates to ARRs, the Corporation has established an enterprise-wide initiative led by senior management. As part of this initiative, the Corporation continues to identify, assess and monitor risks associated with the expected discontinuation or unavailability of LIBOR and other benchmarks and evaluate and address documentation and contractual mechanics of outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts that mature after 2021 and new and potential future ARR-based products and contracts to achieve operational readiness. Additionally, the Corporation is continuing to evaluate potential regulatory, tax and accounting impacts of the transition, including guidance published and/or proposed by the Internal Revenue Service and Financial Accounting Standards Board, engage impacted clients in connection with the transition to ARRs and work actively with global regulators, industry working groups and trade associations to develop strategies for an effective transition to ARRs.
The Corporation is also modifying its operational models, systems, procedures and internal infrastructure to transition to ARRs. In 2019, the Corporation launched capabilities to support issuance and trading in products indexed to the new Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), which is the alternative benchmark rate to U.S. dollar LIBOR recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of private-market participants and official-sector entities convened by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities. Also, in 2019, the Corporation issued debt linked to SOFR, and the Corporation co-arranged one of the first credit facilities linked to SOFR and has implemented fallback provisions into certain new IBOR-based products and contracts. The Corporation continues to monitor the development and usage of ARRs, including SOFR. For more information on the expected replacement of LIBOR and other benchmark rates, see Item 1A. Risk Factors - Other on page 17.

------------------

23 Bank of America

Financial Highlights
In the Consolidated Statement of Income, amounts related to certain asset and liability management (ALM) activities have been reclassified from other income to market making and similar activities, which was previously referred to as trading account income. All prior periods presented reflect this change, which has no impact on the Corporation's total noninterest income or net income, and has no impact on business segment results. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

---------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------- ------- ---- --------- - -------

Table 1 Summary Income Statement and Selected Financial Data

(Dollars in millions, except per share information) 2019 2018
Income statement
Net interest income $ 48,891 $ 48,162
Noninterest income 42,353 42,858
Total revenue, net of interest expense 91,244 91,020
Provision for credit losses 3,590 3,282
Noninterest expense 54,900 53,154
Income before income taxes 32,754 34,584
Income tax expense 5,324 6,437
Net income 27,430 28,147
Preferred stock dividends 1,432 1,451
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 25,998 $ 26,696

Per common share information
Earnings $ 2.77 $ 2.64
Diluted earnings 2.75 2.61
Dividends paid 0.66 0.54
Performance ratios
Return on average assets 1.14 % 1.21 %
Return on average common shareholders’ equity 10.62 11.04
Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (1) 14.86 15.55
Efficiency ratio 60.17 58.40
Balance sheet at year end
Total loans and leases $ 983,426 $ 946,895
Total assets 2,434,079 2,354,507
Total deposits 1,434,803 1,381,476
Total liabilities 2,169,269 2,089,182
Total common shareholders’ equity 241,409 242,999
Total shareholders’ equity 264,810 265,325

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information and a corresponding reconciliation to the most closely related financial measures defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 80.

Net income was $27.4 billion or $2.75 per diluted share in 2019 compared to $28.1 billion, or $2.61 per diluted share in 2018. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by an increase in noninterest expense as a result of the $2.1 billion pretax impairment charge related to the notice of termination of the merchant services joint venture at the conclusion of its current term. Also contributing to the decrease in net income were higher provision for credit losses and lower noninterest income, partially offset by an increase in net interest income.
For discussion and analysis of our consolidated and business segment results of operations for 2018 compared to 2017, see

the Financial Highlights and Business Segment Operations sections in the MD&A of the Corporation's 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Net Interest Income
Net interest income increased $729 million to $48.9 billion in 2019 compared 2018. Net interest yield on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis decreased two basis points (bps) to 2.43 percent for 2019. The increase in net interest income was primarily driven by loan and deposit growth, partially offset by lower long-end rates. Assuming a stable economic and interest rate environment compared to December 31, 2019, we expect quarterly net interest income for the first two quarters of 2020 to be lower compared to the fourth quarter of 2019 driven by the impact of rates and one fewer day of interest accruals. Quarterly net interest income is expected to rise modestly in the second half of 2020 due to one additional day of interest accruals and expected loan and deposit growth. For more information on net interest yield and the FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27, and for more information on interest rate risk management, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.
Noninterest Income

------------------------------------ ------------------ ------ ---- ------ - ------

Table 2 Noninterest Income

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Fees and commissions:
Card income $ 5,797 $ 5,824
Service charges 7,674 7,767
Investment and brokerage services 13,902 14,160
Investment banking fees 5,642 5,327
Total fees and commissions 33,015 33,078
Market making and similar activities 9,034 9,008
Other income 304 772
Total noninterest income $ 42,353 $ 42,858

Noninterest income decreased $505 million to $42.4 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The following highlights the significant changes.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Service charges decreased $93 million primarily driven by lower fees due to policy changes in 2018 and lower ATM volume in Consumer Banking.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Investment and brokerage services income decreased $258 million primarily due to lower transactional revenue and a decrease in assets under management (AUM) pricing, partially offset by the positive impact of AUM flows and higher market valuations.

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Investment banking fees increased $315 million due to increases in advisory fees and equity and debt underwriting fees.

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Other income decreased $468 million primarily due to lower gains on sales of non-core consumer loans and higher partnership losses associated with an increase in tax-advantaged investments, partially offset by higher gains on sales of debt securities.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 24

Provision for Credit Losses
The provision for credit losses increased $308 million to $3.6 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was primarily due to the energy reserve releases in the commercial portfolio in 2018, partially offset by the impact of recoveries recorded in connection with sales of previously charged-off non-core consumer real estate loans. For more information on the provision for credit losses, see Provision for Credit Losses on page 68.
Noninterest Expense

----------------------------------------- ------------------- ------ ---- ----- - ------

Table 3 Noninterest Expense

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Compensation and benefits $ 31,977 $ 31,880
Occupancy and equipment 6,588 6,380
Information processing and communications 4,646 4,555
Product delivery and transaction related 2,762 2,857
Marketing 1,934 1,674
Professional fees 1,597 1,699
Other general operating 5,396 4,109
Total noninterest expense $ 54,900 $ 53,154

Noninterest expense increased $1.7 billion to $54.9 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was primarily due to the

aforementioned impairment charge related to our merchant services joint venture of $2.1 billion as well as increased costs associated with investment in the businesses, including brand-related marketing costs, and higher litigation expense. These were partially offset by efficiency savings, lower Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) expense and lower amortization of intangibles expense.
Income Tax Expense

-------------------------- ------------------ ------ ---- ----- - ------

Table 4 Income Tax Expense

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Income before income taxes $ 32,754 $ 34,584
Income tax expense 5,324 6,437
Effective tax rate 16.3 % 18.6 %

The effective tax rates for 2019 and 2018 reflect the impact of our recurring tax preference benefits. The 2019 effective rate also included net tax benefits primarily related to the resolution of various tax controversy matters.
We expect the effective tax rate for 2020 to be approximately 18 percent, absent unusual items.

Balance Sheet Overview

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- ----------- ---- --------- -------- --------- --- - -- --

Table 5 Selected Balance Sheet Data

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 % Change
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 161,560 $ 177,404 (9 )%
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 274,597 261,131 5
Trading account assets 229,826 214,348 7
Debt securities 472,197 441,753 7
Loans and leases 983,426 946,895 4
Allowance for loan and lease losses (9,416 ) (9,601 ) (2 )
All other assets 321,889 322,577 —
Total assets $ 2,434,079 $ 2,354,507 3
Liabilities
Deposits $ 1,434,803 $ 1,381,476 4
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 165,109 186,988 (12 )
Trading account liabilities 83,270 68,220 22
Short-term borrowings 24,204 20,189 20
Long-term debt 240,856 229,392 5
All other liabilities 221,027 202,917 9
Total liabilities 2,169,269 2,089,182 4
Shareholders’ equity 264,810 265,325 —
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 2,434,079 $ 2,354,507 3

Assets
At December 31, 2019, total assets were approximately $2.4 trillion, up $79.6 billion from December 31, 2018. The increase in assets was primarily due to higher loans and leases and debt securities primarily funded by deposit growth.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents decreased $15.8 billion driven by investment of short-term excess cash into securities purchased under agreements to resell, debt securities and growth in loans and leases.

Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell
Federal funds transactions involve lending reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell are collateralized lending transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads, and obtain securities for settlement and for collateral. Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell increased $13.5 billion due to investment of excess cash levels.

------------------

25 Bank of America

Trading Account Assets
Trading account assets consist primarily of long positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. government and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account assets increased $15.5 billion primarily driven by additional inventory in Global Markets to facilitate client demand.
Debt Securities
Debt securities primarily include U.S. Treasury and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), principally agency MBS, non-U.S. bonds, corporate bonds and municipal debt. We use the debt securities portfolio primarily to manage interest rate and liquidity risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically attractive returns on these investments. Debt securities increased $30.4 billion primarily driven by the deployment of deposit inflows. For more information on debt securities, see Note 4 – Securities to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Loans and Leases
Loans and leases increased $36.5 billion primarily due to net loan growth driven by client demand for commercial loans and increases in residential mortgage. For more information on the loan portfolio, see Credit Risk Management on page 53.
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
The allowance for loan and lease losses decreased $185 million primarily due to the impact of improvements in credit quality from a stronger economy and continued runoff and sales in the non-core consumer real estate portfolio. For more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68.
Liabilities
At December 31, 2019, total liabilities were approximately $2.2 trillion, up $80.1 billion from December 31, 2018, primarily due to deposit growth.
Deposits
Deposits increased $53.3 billion primarily due to increases in both retail and wholesale deposits.
Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase
Federal funds transactions involve borrowing reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized borrowing transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads and finance assets on the balance sheet. Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase decreased $21.9 billion primarily driven by balance sheet efficiencies within Global Markets.

Trading Account Liabilities
Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. Treasury and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account liabilities increased $15.1 billion primarily due to higher levels of short positions in government and corporate bonds driven by client demand within Global Markets.
Short-term Borrowings
Short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source and primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) short-term borrowings, notes payable and various other borrowings that generally have maturities of one year or less. Short-term borrowings increased $4.0 billion primarily due to an increase in short-term FHLB advances to manage liquidity needs. For more information on short-term borrowings, see Note 11 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Long-term Debt
Long-term debt increased $11.5 billion primarily driven by debt issuances and valuation adjustments, partially offset by maturities and redemptions. For more information on long-term debt, see Note 12 – Long-term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
All Other Liabilities
All other liabilities increased $18.1 billion primarily driven by an increase in broker-dealer payables within Global Markets due to timing of unsettled trades and an increase in lease liabilities due to implementation of the new lease accounting standard.
Shareholders’ Equity
Shareholders’ equity decreased $515 million driven by returns of capital to shareholders through share repurchases, common and preferred stock dividends of $35.7 billion, as well as redemption of preferred stock, largely offset by earnings, market value increases on debt securities and issuances of preferred stock.
Cash Flows Overview
The Corporation’s operating assets and liabilities support our global markets and lending activities. We believe that cash flows from operations, available cash balances and our ability to generate cash through short- and long-term debt are sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities primarily include the debt securities portfolio and loans and leases. Our financing activities reflect cash flows primarily related to customer deposits, securities financing agreements and long-term debt. For more information on liquidity, see Liquidity Risk on page 50.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 26

Supplemental Financial Data
In this Form 10-K, we present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items or otherwise include components that differ from the most directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Non-GAAP financial measures are provided as additional useful information to assess our financial condition, results of operations (including period-to-period operating performance) or compliance with prospective regulatory requirements. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended as a substitute for GAAP financial measures and may not be defined or calculated the same way as non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses on an FTE basis, which when presented on a consolidated basis are non-GAAP financial measures. To derive the FTE basis, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt income on an equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding increase in income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, we use the federal statutory tax rate of 21 percent for 2019 and 2018 (35 percent for 2017) and a representative state tax rate. Net interest yield, which measures the basis points we earn over the cost of funds, utilizes net interest income on an FTE basis. We believe that presentation of these items on an FTE basis allows for comparison of amounts from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practices.
We may present certain key performance indicators and ratios excluding certain items (e.g., debit valuation adjustment (DVA) gains (losses)) which result in non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that the presentation of measures that exclude these items
is useful because such measures provide additional information to assess the underlying operational performance and trends of our businesses and to allow better comparison of period-to-period operating performance.
We also evaluate our business based on certain ratios that utilize tangible equity, a non-GAAP financial measure. Tangible equity represents shareholders’ equity or common shareholders’

equity reduced by goodwill and intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)), net of related deferred tax liabilities ("adjusted" shareholders' equity or common shareholders' equity). These measures are used to evaluate our use of equity. In addition, profitability, relationship and investment models use both return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity and return on average tangible shareholders’ equity as key measures to support our overall growth goals. These ratios are as follows:

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity measures our net income applicable to common shareholders as a percentage of adjusted average common shareholders’ equity. The tangible common equity ratio represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ equity divided by total tangible assets.

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Return on average tangible shareholders' equity measures our net income as a percentage of adjusted average total shareholders’ equity. The tangible equity ratio represents adjusted ending shareholders’ equity divided by total tangible assets.

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Tangible book value per common share represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ equity divided by ending common shares outstanding.

We believe that the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity provides additional useful information because they present measures of those assets that can generate income. Tangible book value per common share provides additional useful information about the level of tangible assets in relation to outstanding shares of common stock.
The aforementioned supplemental data and performance measures are presented in Tables 6 and 7.
For more information on the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP financial measures, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 80.

------------------

27 Bank of America

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------- ---- --------- ---- ------- --------- - ---- --------- - --------- ------- - -------

Table 6 Five-year Summary of Selected Financial Data

(In millions, except per share information) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Income statement
Net interest income $ 48,891 $ 48,162 $ 45,239 $ 41,486 $ 38,958
Noninterest income 42,353 42,858 41,887 42,012 44,007
Total revenue, net of interest expense 91,244 91,020 87,126 83,498 82,965
Provision for credit losses 3,590 3,282 3,396 3,597 3,161
Noninterest expense 54,900 53,154 54,517 54,880 57,617
Income before income taxes 32,754 34,584 29,213 25,021 22,187
Income tax expense 5,324 6,437 10,981 7,199 6,277
Net income 27,430 28,147 18,232 17,822 15,910
Net income applicable to common shareholders 25,998 26,696 16,618 16,140 14,427
Average common shares issued and outstanding 9,390.5 10,096.5 10,195.6 10,248.1 10,462.3
Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 9,442.9 10,236.9 10,778.4 11,046.8 11,236.2
Performance ratios
Return on average assets 1.14 % 1.21 % 0.80 % 0.81 % 0.74 %
Return on average common shareholders’ equity 10.62 11.04 6.72 6.69 6.28
Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (1) 14.86 15.55 9.41 9.51 9.16
Return on average shareholders’ equity 10.24 10.63 6.72 6.70 6.33
Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity (1) 13.85 14.46 9.08 9.17 8.88
Total ending equity to total ending assets 10.88 11.27 11.71 12.17 11.92
Total average equity to total average assets 11.14 11.39 11.96 12.14 11.64
Dividend payout 23.65 20.31 24.24 15.94 14.49
Per common share data
Earnings $ 2.77 $ 2.64 $ 1.63 $ 1.57 $ 1.38
Diluted earnings 2.75 2.61 1.56 1.49 1.31
Dividends paid 0.66 0.54 0.39 0.25 0.20
Book value 27.32 25.13 23.80 23.97 22.48
Tangible book value (1) 19.41 17.91 16.96 16.89 15.56
Market capitalization $ 311,209 $ 238,251 $ 303,681 $ 222,163 $ 174,700
Average balance sheet
Total loans and leases $ 958,416 $ 933,049 $ 918,731 $ 900,433 $ 876,787
Total assets 2,405,830 2,325,246 2,268,633 2,190,218 2,160,536
Total deposits 1,380,326 1,314,941 1,269,796 1,222,561 1,155,860
Long-term debt 201,623 200,399 194,882 204,826 240,059
Common shareholders’ equity 244,853 241,799 247,101 241,187 229,576
Total shareholders’ equity 267,889 264,748 271,289 265,843 251,384
Asset quality (2)
Allowance for credit losses (3) $ 10,229 $ 10,398 $ 11,170 $ 11,999 $ 12,880
Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties (4) 3,837 5,244 6,758 8,084 9,836
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding (4) 0.97 % 1.02 % 1.12 % 1.26 % 1.37 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases (4) 265 194 161 149 130
Net charge-offs $ 3,648 $ 3,763 $ 3,979 $ 3,821 $ 4,338
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (4) 0.38 % 0.41 % 0.44 % 0.43 % 0.50 %
Capital ratios at year end (5)
Common equity tier 1 capital 11.2 % 11.6 % 11.5 % 10.8 % 9.8 %
Tier 1 capital 12.6 13.2 13.0 12.4 11.2
Total capital 14.7 15.1 14.8 14.2 12.8
Tier 1 leverage 7.9 8.4 8.6 8.8 8.4
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.4 6.8 n/a n/a n/a
Tangible equity (1) 8.2 8.6 8.9 9.2 8.9
Tangible common equity (1) 7.3 7.6 7.9 8.0 7.8

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information on these ratios and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27 and Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 80.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Asset quality metrics include $75 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-offs in 2017 and $243 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card allowance for loan and lease losses, $9.2 billion of non-U.S. consumer credit card loans and $175 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-offs in 2016. The non-U.S. consumer credit card business was sold in 2017.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Includes the allowance for loan and leases losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 59 and corresponding Table 29 and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 63 and corresponding Table 36.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) Basel 3 transition provisions for regulatory capital adjustments and deductions were fully phased-in as of January 1, 2018. Prior periods are presented on a fully phased-in basis. For more information, including which approach is used to assess capital adequacy, see Capital Management on page 45.

n/a = not applicable

 ------------------

 Bank of America 28

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ------ ------- --------- - ------ --------- ----- --------- ------- ----- --------- - ------- --------- - - --------- - - ------- - -------

Table 7 Selected Quarterly Financial Data

 2019 Quarters 2018 Quarters
(In millions, except per share information) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First
Income statement
Net interest income $ 12,140 $ 12,187 $ 12,189 $ 12,375 $ 12,504 $ 12,061 $ 11,828 $ 11,769
Noninterest income 10,209 10,620 10,895 10,629 10,173 10,663 10,721 11,301
Total revenue, net of interest expense 22,349 22,807 23,084 23,004 22,677 22,724 22,549 23,070
Provision for credit losses 941 779 857 1,013 905 716 827 834
Noninterest expense 13,239 15,169 13,268 13,224 13,074 13,014 13,224 13,842
Income before income taxes 8,169 6,859 8,959 8,767 8,698 8,994 8,498 8,394
Income tax expense 1,175 1,082 1,611 1,456 1,420 1,827 1,714 1,476
Net income 6,994 5,777 7,348 7,311 7,278 7,167 6,784 6,918
Net income applicable to common shareholders 6,748 5,272 7,109 6,869 7,039 6,701 6,466 6,490
Average common shares issued and outstanding 9,017.1 9,303.6 9,523.2 9,725.9 9,855.8 10,031.6 10,181.7 10,322.4
Average diluted common shares issued and outstanding 9,079.5 9,353.0 9,559.6 9,787.3 9,996.0 10,170.8 10,309.4 10,472.7
Performance ratios
Return on average assets 1.13 % 0.95 % 1.23 % 1.26 % 1.24 % 1.23 % 1.17 % 1.21 %
Four-quarter trailing return on average assets (1) 1.14 1.17 1.24 1.22 1.21 1.00 0.93 0.86
Return on average common shareholders’ equity 11.00 8.48 11.62 11.42 11.57 10.99 10.75 10.85
Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (2) 15.43 11.84 16.24 16.01 16.29 15.48 15.15 15.26
Return on average shareholders’ equity 10.40 8.48 11.00 11.14 10.95 10.74 10.26 10.57
Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity (2) 14.09 11.43 14.88 15.10 14.90 14.61 13.95 14.37
Total ending equity to total ending assets 10.88 11.06 11.33 11.23 11.27 11.21 11.53 11.43
Total average equity to total average assets 10.89 11.21 11.17 11.28 11.30 11.42 11.42 11.41
Dividend payout 23.90 31.48 19.95 21.20 20.90 22.35 18.83 19.06
Per common share data
Earnings $ 0.75 $ 0.57 $ 0.75 $ 0.71 $ 0.71 $ 0.67 $ 0.64 $ 0.63
Diluted earnings 0.74 0.56 0.74 0.70 0.70 0.66 0.63 0.62
Dividends paid 0.18 0.18 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.12 0.12
Book value 27.32 26.96 26.41 25.57 25.13 24.33 24.07 23.74
Tangible book value (2) 19.41 19.26 18.92 18.26 17.91 17.23 17.07 16.84
Market capitalization $ 311,209 $ 264,842 $ 270,935 $ 263,992 $ 238,251 $ 290,424 $ 282,259 $ 305,176
Average balance sheet
Total loans and leases $ 973,986 $ 964,733 $ 950,525 $ 944,020 $ 934,721 $ 930,736 $ 934,818 $ 931,915
Total assets 2,450,005 2,412,223 2,399,051 2,360,992 2,334,586 2,317,829 2,322,678 2,325,878
Total deposits 1,410,439 1,375,052 1,375,450 1,359,864 1,344,951 1,316,345 1,300,659 1,297,268
Long-term debt 206,026 202,620 201,007 196,726 201,056 203,239 199,448 197,787
Common shareholders’ equity 243,439 246,630 245,438 243,891 241,372 241,812 241,313 242,713
Total shareholders’ equity 266,900 270,430 267,975 266,217 263,698 264,653 265,181 265,480
Asset quality
Allowance for credit losses (3) $ 10,229 $ 10,242 $ 10,333 $ 10,379 $ 10,398 $ 10,526 $ 10,837 $ 11,042
Nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties (4) 3,837 3,723 4,452 5,145 5,244 5,449 6,181 6,694
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding (4) 0.97 % 0.98 % 1.00 % 1.02 % 1.02 % 1.05 % 1.08 % 1.11 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases (4) 265 271 228 197 194 189 170 161
Net charge-offs $ 959 $ 811 $ 887 $ 991 $ 924 $ 932 $ 996 $ 911
Annualized net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (4) 0.39 % 0.34 % 0.38 % 0.43 % 0.39 % 0.40 % 0.43 % 0.40 %
Capital ratios at period end
Common equity tier 1 capital 11.2 % 11.4 % 11.7 % 11.6 % 11.6 % 11.4 % 11.4 % 11.3 %
Tier 1 capital 12.6 12.9 13.3 13.1 13.2 12.9 13.0 13.0
Total capital 14.7 15.1 15.4 15.2 15.1 14.7 14.8 14.8
Tier 1 leverage 7.9 8.2 8.4 8.4 8.4 8.3 8.4 8.4
Supplementary leverage ratio 6.4 6.6 6.8 6.8 6.8 6.7 6.7 6.8
Tangible equity (2) 8.2 8.4 8.7 8.5 8.6 8.5 8.7 8.7
Tangible common equity (2) 7.3 7.4 7.6 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.7 7.6
Total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt metrics (5)
Total loss-absorbing capacity to risk-weighted assets 24.6 % 24.8 % 25.5 % 24.8 %
Total loss-absorbing capacity to supplementary leverage exposure 12.5 12.7 13.0 12.8
Eligible long-term debt to risk-weighted assets 11.5 11.4 11.8 11.4
Eligible long-term debt to supplementary leverage exposure 5.8 5.8 6.0 5.9

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Calculated as total net income for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information on these ratios and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27 and Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 80.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 59 and corresponding Table 29 and Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity on page 63 and corresponding Table 36.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) Effective January 1, 2019, we became subject to minimum total loss-absorbing capacity and long-term debt requirements. For more information, see Capital Management on page 45.

------------------

29 Bank of America

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------- --------- -------------------------- ------ ---------- ----- -------------- ---- -------------------------- --------- ---------- --------- -------------- - -------------------------- ----- ---------- ---- --------- ---- - --------- - ------- ------ - - ----- - ---- -

Table 8 Average Balances and Interest Rates - FTE Basis

 AverageBalance InterestIncome/Expense (1) Yield/Rate AverageBalance InterestIncome/Expense (1) Yield/Rate AverageBalance InterestIncome/Expense (1) Yield/Rate
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2017
Earning assets
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other banks $ 125,555 $ 1,823 1.45 % $ 139,848 $ 1,926 1.38 % $ 127,431 $ 1,122 0.88 %
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments 9,427 207 2.19 9,446 216 2.29 12,112 241 1.99
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 279,610 4,843 1.73 251,328 3,176 1.26 222,818 1,806 0.81
Trading account assets 148,076 5,269 3.56 132,724 4,901 3.69 129,007 4,618 3.58
Debt securities 450,090 11,917 2.65 437,312 11,837 2.66 435,005 10,626 2.44
Loans and leases (2):
Residential mortgage 220,552 7,651 3.47 207,523 7,294 3.51 197,766 6,831 3.45
Home equity 44,600 2,194 4.92 53,886 2,573 4.77 62,260 2,608 4.19
Credit card 94,488 10,166 10.76 94,612 9,579 10.12 91,068 8,791 9.65
Non-U.S. credit card (3) — — — — — — 3,929 358 9.12
Direct/Indirect and other consumer (4) 90,656 3,261 3.60 93,036 3,104 3.34 96,002 2,734 2.85
Total consumer 450,296 23,272 5.17 449,057 22,550 5.02 451,025 21,322 4.73
U.S. commercial 321,467 13,016 4.05 304,387 11,937 3.92 292,452 9,765 3.34
Non-U.S. commercial 103,918 3,547 3.41 97,664 3,220 3.30 95,005 2,566 2.70
Commercial real estate (5) 62,044 2,741 4.42 60,384 2,618 4.34 58,502 2,116 3.62
Commercial lease financing 20,691 718 3.47 21,557 698 3.24 21,747 706 3.25
Total commercial 508,120 20,022 3.94 483,992 18,473 3.82 467,706 15,153 3.24
Total loans and leases (3) 958,416 43,294 4.52 933,049 41,023 4.40 918,731 36,475 3.97
Other earning assets 69,089 4,478 6.48 76,524 4,300 5.62 76,957 3,224 4.19
Total earning assets 2,040,263 71,831 3.52 1,980,231 67,379 3.40 1,922,061 58,112 3.02
Cash and due from banks 26,193 25,830 27,995
Other assets, less allowance for loan and lease losses 339,374 319,185 318,577
Total assets $ 2,405,830 $ 2,325,246 $ 2,268,633
Interest-bearing liabilities
U.S. interest-bearing deposits:
Savings $ 52,020 $ 5 0.01 % $ 54,226 $ 6 0.01 % $ 53,783 $ 5 0.01 %
NOW and money market deposit accounts 741,126 4,471 0.60 676,382 2,636 0.39 628,647 873 0.14
Consumer CDs and IRAs 47,577 471 0.99 39,823 157 0.39 44,794 121 0.27
Negotiable CDs, public funds and other deposits 66,866 1,407 2.11 50,593 991 1.96 36,782 354 0.96
Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits 907,589 6,354 0.70 821,024 3,790 0.46 764,006 1,353 0.18
Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits:
Banks located in non-U.S. countries 1,936 20 1.04 2,312 39 1.69 2,442 21 0.85
Governments and official institutions 181 — 0.05 810 — 0.01 1,006 10 0.95
Time, savings and other 69,351 814 1.17 65,097 666 1.02 62,386 547 0.88
Total non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits 71,468 834 1.17 68,219 705 1.03 65,834 578 0.88
Total interest-bearing deposits 979,057 7,188 0.73 889,243 4,495 0.51 829,840 1,931 0.23
Federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, short-term borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities 276,432 7,208 2.61 269,748 5,839 2.17 274,975 3,146 1.14
Trading account liabilities 45,449 1,249 2.75 50,928 1,358 2.67 45,518 1,204 2.64
Long-term debt 201,623 6,700 3.32 200,399 6,915 3.45 194,882 5,667 2.91
Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,502,561 22,345 1.49 1,410,318 18,607 1.32 1,345,215 11,948 0.89
Noninterest-bearing sources:
Noninterest-bearing deposits 401,269 425,698 439,956
Other liabilities (6) 234,111 224,482 212,173
Shareholders’ equity 267,889 264,748 271,289
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 2,405,830 $ 2,325,246 $ 2,268,633
Net interest spread 2.03 % 2.08 % 2.13 %
Impact of noninterest-bearing sources 0.40 0.37 0.27
Net interest income/yield on earning assets (7) $ 49,486 2.43 % $ 48,772 2.45 % $ 46,164 2.40 %

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Includes assets of the Corporation's non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was sold during the second quarter of 2017.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Includes non-U.S. consumer loans of $2.9 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) Includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $57.3 billion, $56.4 billion and $55.0 billion, and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $4.7 billion, $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6) Includes $35.5 billion, $30.4 billion and $30.3 billion of structured notes and liabilities for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(7) Net interest income includes FTE adjustments of $595 million, $610 million and $925 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 30

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------ -------------------- ----------------- ---------- - -------------------- ----- ---------- - ---- - ----- --- ----- - ----- - ---

Table 9 Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income - FTE Basis

 Due to Change in (1) Net Change Due to Change in (1) Net Change
 Volume Rate Volume Rate
(Dollars in millions) From 2018 to 2019 From 2017 to 2018
Increase (decrease) in interest income
Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve, non-U.S. central banks and other banks $ (193 ) $ 90 $ (103 ) $ 109 $ 695 $ 804
Time deposits placed and other short-term investments — (9 ) (9 ) (53 ) 28 (25 )
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell 347 1,320 1,667 230 1,140 1,370
Trading account assets 563 (195 ) 368 134 149 283
Debt securities 135 (55 ) 80 44 1,167 1,211
Loans and leases:
Residential mortgage 447 (90 ) 357 329 134 463
Home equity (446 ) 67 (379 ) (350 ) 315 (35 )
Credit card (17 ) 604 587 339 449 788
Non-U.S. credit card (2) — — — (358 ) — (358 )
Direct/Indirect and other consumer (76 ) 233 157 (82 ) 452 370
Total consumer 722 1,228
U.S. commercial 665 414 1,079 402 1,770 2,172
Non-U.S. commercial 209 118 327 71 583 654
Commercial real estate 75 48 123 70 432 502
Commercial lease financing (28 ) 48 20 (5 ) (3 ) (8 )
Total commercial 1,549 3,320
Total loans and leases 2,271 4,548
Other earning assets (417 ) 595 178 (18 ) 1,094 1,076
Total interest income $ 4,452 $ 9,267
Increase (decrease) in interest expense
U.S. interest-bearing deposits:
Savings $ (1 ) $ — $ (1 ) $ — $ 1 $ 1
NOW and money market deposit accounts 254 1,581 1,835 74 1,689 1,763
Consumer CDs and IRAs 29 285 314 (13 ) 49 36
Negotiable CDs, public funds and other deposits 320 96 416 132 505 637
Total U.S. interest-bearing deposits 2,564 2,437
Non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits:
Banks located in non-U.S. countries (6 ) (13 ) (19 ) (1 ) 19 18
Governments and official institutions — — — (2 ) (8 ) (10 )
Time, savings and other 41 107 148 26 93 119
Total non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits 129 127
Total interest-bearing deposits 2,693 2,564
Federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, short-term borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities 160 1,209 1,369 (71 ) 2,764 2,693
Trading account liabilities (145 ) 36 (109 ) 140 14 154
Long-term debt 41 (256 ) (215 ) 165 1,083 1,248
Total interest expense 3,738 6,659
Net increase in net interest income (3) $ 714 $ 2,608

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the variance in rate for that category. The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) The Corporation sold its non-U.S. credit card business in the second quarter of 2017.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Includes decreases in FTE basis adjustments of $15 million from 2018 to 2019 and $315 million from 2017 to 2018.

------------------

31 Bank of America

Business Segment Operations
Segment Description and Basis of Presentation
We report our results of operations through the following four business segments: Consumer Banking, GWIM, Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We manage our segments and report their results on an FTE basis. The primary activities, products and businesses of the business segments and All Other are shown below.

We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. We utilize a methodology that considers the effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal risk-based capital models. Our internal risk-based capital models use a risk-adjusted methodology incorporating each segment’s credit, market, interest rate, business and operational risk components. For more information on the nature of these risks, see Managing Risk on page 42. The capital allocated to the business segments is referred to as allocated capital. Allocated equity in the reporting

units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting unit. For more information, including the definition of a reporting unit, see Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For more information on our presentation of financial information on an FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27, and for reconciliations to consolidated total revenue, net income and year-end total assets, see Note 24 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 32

Consumer Banking

-------------------------------------- ------- -------- ------- ---------------- ------ ---------------------- ---- ------- ------- -------- ------- ------- ------- - ------- - - ------- - -

 Deposits Consumer Lending Total Consumer Banking
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 % Change
Net interest income $ 16,904 $ 15,939 $ 11,254 $ 11,086 $ 28,158 $ 27,025 4 %
Noninterest income:
Card income (33 ) (33 ) 5,117 5,135 5,084 5,102 —
Service charges 4,217 4,298 2 2 4,219 4,300 (2 )
All other income 832 762 294 429 1,126 1,191 (5 )
Total noninterest income 5,016 5,027 5,413 5,566 10,429 10,593 (2 )
Total revenue, net of interest expense 21,920 20,966 16,667 16,652 38,587 37,618 3

Provision for credit losses 269 195 3,503 3,469 3,772 3,664 3
Noninterest expense 10,682 10,657 6,936 7,015 17,618 17,672 —
Income before income taxes 10,969 10,114 6,228 6,168 17,197 16,282 6
Income tax expense 2,687 2,578 1,526 1,572 4,213 4,150 2
Net income $ 8,282 $ 7,536 $ 4,702 $ 4,596 $ 12,984 $ 12,132 7

Effective tax rate (1) 24.5 % 25.5 %

Net interest yield 2.40 % 2.34 % 3.80 % 3.97 % 3.81 3.77
Return on average allocated capital 69 63 19 18 35 33
Efficiency ratio 48.73 50.83 41.61 42.12 45.66 46.98

Balance Sheet

Average
Total loans and leases $ 5,373 $ 5,233 $ 295,562 $ 278,574 $ 300,935 $ 283,807 6 %
Total earning assets (2) 703,444 682,592 296,051 279,217 738,770 717,189 3
Total assets (2) 735,232 710,925 306,169 290,068 780,676 756,373 3
Total deposits 702,908 678,640 5,368 5,533 708,276 684,173 4
Allocated capital 12,000 12,000 25,000 25,000 37,000 37,000 —

Year end
Total loans and leases $ 5,472 $ 5,470 $ 311,942 $ 288,865 $ 317,414 $ 294,335 8 %
Total earning assets (2) 724,536 694,672 312,684 289,249 760,137 728,813 4
Total assets (2) 758,385 724,019 322,717 299,970 804,019 768,881 5
Total deposits 725,598 691,666 5,080 4,480 730,678 696,146 5

--- ------------------------------------
(1) Estimated at the segment level only.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) In segments and businesses where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, we allocate assets from All Other to match the segments’ and businesses’ liabilities and allocated shareholders’ equity. As a result, total earning assets and total assets of the businesses may not equal total Consumer Banking.

Consumer Banking, which is comprised of Deposits and Consumer Lending, offers a diversified range of credit, banking and investment products and services to consumers and small businesses. Deposits and Consumer Lending include the net impact of migrating customers and their related deposit, brokerage asset and loan balances between Deposits, Consumer Lending and GWIM, as well as other client-managed businesses. Our customers and clients have access to a coast to coast network including financial centers in 38 states and the District of Columbia. Our network includes approximately 4,300 financial centers, approximately 16,800 ATMs, nationwide call centers, and leading digital banking platforms with more than 38 million active users, including over 29 million active mobile users.
Consumer Banking Results
Net income for Consumer Banking increased $852 million to $13.0 billion in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily driven by higher net interest income and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower noninterest income. Net interest income increased $1.1 billion to $28.2 billion primarily due to growth in deposits and loans. Noninterest income decreased $164 million to $10.4 billion driven by lower service charges and lower mortgage banking income, largely offset by higher results from ALM activities.
The provision for credit losses increased $108 million to $3.8 billion driven by overdrafts and portfolio seasoning in the credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $54 million to

$17.6 billion primarily driven by lower FDIC expense and operating efficiencies, partially offset by continued investment in the business.
The return on average allocated capital was 35 percent, up from 33 percent, driven by higher net income. For information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.
Deposits
Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities which consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and IRAs, and noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts, as well as investment accounts and products. Net interest income is allocated to the deposit products using our funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. Deposits generates fees such as account service fees, non-sufficient funds fees, overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as investment and brokerage fees from Merrill Edge accounts. Merrill Edge is an integrated investing and banking service targeted at customers with less than $250,000 in investable assets. Merrill Edge provides investment advice and guidance, client brokerage asset services, a self-directed online investing platform and key banking capabilities including access to the Corporation’s network of financial centers and ATMs.

------------------

33 Bank of America

Net income for Deposits increased $746 million to $8.3 billion driven by higher net interest income. Net interest income increased $965 million to $16.9 billion primarily due to growth in deposits and pricing discipline. Noninterest income decreased $11 million to $5.0 billion primarily driven by lower service charges, largely offset by higher results from ALM activities.
The provision for credit losses increased $74 million to $269 million in 2019. Noninterest expense increased $25 million to $10.7 billion driven by continued investment in the business, partially offset by lower FDIC expense and operating efficiencies.
Average deposits increased $24.3 billion to $702.9 billion in 2019 driven by strong organic growth. Growth in checking and time deposits of $27.0 billion was partially offset by a decline in traditional savings and money market savings of $2.5 billion.

------------------------------------------------------ ------ ------- ---- ------ - -------

Key Statistics – Deposits

 2019 2018
Total deposit spreads (excludes noninterest costs) (1) 2.34 % 2.14 %

Year end
Consumer investment assets (in millions) (2) $ 240,132 $ 185,881
Active digital banking users (units in thousands) (3) 38,266 36,264
Active mobile banking users (units in thousands) 29,174 26,433
Financial centers 4,300 4,341
ATMs 16,788 16,255

--- -------------------------------------------
(1) Includes deposits held in Consumer Lending.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes client brokerage assets, deposit sweep balances and AUM in Consumer Banking.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Active digital banking users represents mobile and/or online users.

Consumer investment assets increased $54 billion in 2019 driven by strong market performance and client flows. Active mobile banking users increased 3 million reflecting continuing changes in our customers’ banking preferences. The number of financial centers declined by a net 41 reflecting changes in customer preferences to self-service options as we continue to optimize our consumer banking network and improve our cost to serve.
Consumer Lending
Consumer Lending offers products to consumers and small businesses across the U.S. The products offered include credit and debit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans such as automotive, recreational vehicle and consumer personal loans. In addition to earning net interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Consumer Lending generates interchange revenue from credit and debit card transactions, late fees, cash advance fees, annual credit card fees, mortgage banking fee income and other miscellaneous fees. Consumer Lending products are available to our customers through our retail network, direct telephone, and online and mobile channels. Consumer Lending results also include the impact of servicing residential mortgages and home equity loans in the core portfolio, including loans held on the balance sheet of Consumer Lending and loans serviced for others.

Net income for Consumer Lending increased $106 million to $4.7 billion driven by higher net interest income and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower noninterest income. Net interest income increased $168 million to $11.3 billion driven by loan growth. Noninterest income decreased $153 million to $5.4 billion primarily driven by lower mortgage banking income and lower card income.
The provision for credit losses increased $34 million to $3.5 billion primarily driven by portfolio seasoning in the credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $79 million to $6.9 billion primarily driven by operating efficiencies.
Average loans increased $17.0 billion to $295.6 billion primarily driven by increases in residential mortgages and credit card, partially offset by lower home equity loans.

--------------------------------- ----- ------- ---- ----- - -------

Key Statistics – Consumer Lending

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Total credit card (1)
Gross interest yield 10.76 % 10.12 %
Risk-adjusted margin 8.28 8.25
New accounts (in thousands) 4,320 4,544
Purchase volumes $ 277,852 $ 264,706
Debit card purchase volumes $ 360,672 $ 338,810

--- --------------------------------------
(1) Includes GWIM's credit card portfolio.

During 2019, the total credit card risk-adjusted margin increased 3 bps compared to 2018, primarily driven by a portfolio shift away from promotional-rate loans. Total credit card purchase volumes increased $13.1 billion to $277.9 billion, and debit card purchase volumes increased $21.9 billion to $360.7 billion, reflecting higher levels of consumer spending.

------------------------------------ ------ ------ ---- ------ - ------

Key Statistics – Loan Production (1)

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Total (2):
First mortgage $ 72,467 $ 41,195
Home equity 11,131 14,869
Consumer Banking:
First mortgage $ 49,179 $ 27,280
Home equity 9,755 13,251

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) The loan production amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of loans and, in the case of home equity, the principal amount of the total line of credit.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) In addition to loan production in Consumer Banking, there is also first mortgage and home equity loan production in GWIM.

First mortgage loan originations in Consumer Banking and for the total Corporation increased $21.9 billion and $31.3 billion in 2019 primarily driven by a lower interest rate environment driving higher first-lien mortgage refinances.
Home equity production in Consumer Banking and for the total Corporation decreased $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion in 2019 primarily driven by lower demand.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 34

Global Wealth & Investment Management

-------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- -------- ------- -- - - -

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 % Change
Net interest income $ 6,504 $ 6,265 4 %
Noninterest income:
Investment and brokerage services 11,870 11,959 (1 )
All other income 1,163 1,229 (5 )
Total noninterest income 13,033 13,188 (1 )
Total revenue, net of interest expense 19,537 19,453 —

Provision for credit losses 82 86 (5 )
Noninterest expense 13,823 14,015 (1 )
Income before income taxes 5,632 5,352 5
Income tax expense 1,380 1,364 1
Net income $ 4,252 $ 3,988 7

Effective tax rate 24.5 % 25.5 %

Net interest yield 2.33 2.41
Return on average allocated capital 29 28
Efficiency ratio 70.75 72.04

Balance Sheet

Average
Total loans and leases $ 168,910 $ 161,342 5 %
Total earning assets 279,684 259,808 8
Total assets 292,003 277,220 5
Total deposits 256,505 241,256 6
Allocated capital 14,500 14,500 —

Year end
Total loans and leases $ 176,600 $ 164,854 7 %
Total earning assets 287,212 287,199 —
Total assets 299,756 305,907 (2 )
Total deposits 263,103 268,700 (2 )

GWIM consists of two primary businesses: Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management (MLGWM) and Bank of America Private Bank.
MLGWM’s advisory business provides a high-touch client experience through a network of financial advisors focused on clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets. MLGWM provides tailored solutions to meet clients’ needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking and retirement products.
Bank of America Private Bank, together with MLGWM’s Private Wealth Management business, provides comprehensive wealth management solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, as well as customized solutions to meet clients’ wealth structuring, investment management, trust and banking needs, including specialty asset management services.
Net income for GWIM increased $264 million to $4.3 billion due to lower noninterest expense and higher revenue. The operating margin was 29 percent compared to 28 percent in 2018.

Net interest income increased $239 million to $6.5 billion due to the impact of growth in deposits and loans.
Noninterest income, which primarily includes investment and brokerage services income, decreased $155 million to $13.0 billion. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in AUM pricing and transactional revenue, partially offset by the impact of positive AUM flows and higher market valuations.
Noninterest expense decreased $192 million to $13.8 billion, as investments for business growth were more than offset by lower amortization of intangibles and FDIC expense.
The return on average allocated capital was 29 percent, up from 28 percent, due to higher net income.
MLGWM revenue of $16.1 billion increased one percent primarily driven by higher net interest income and the impact of positive AUM flows and higher market valuations, partially offset by lower transactional volumes and AUM pricing.
Bank of America Private Bank revenue of $3.4 billion decreased one percent primarily due to lower net interest income.

------------------

35 Bank of America

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- ---- --------- - ---------

Key Indicators and Metrics

(Dollars in millions, except as noted) 2019 2018
Revenue by Business
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management $ 16,111 $ 15,998
Bank of America Private Bank 3,426 3,455
Total revenue, net of interest expense $ 19,537 $ 19,453

Client Balances by Business, at year end
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management $ 2,558,102 $ 2,193,562
Bank of America Private Bank 489,690 427,294
Total client balances $ 3,047,792 $ 2,620,856

Client Balances by Type, at year end
Assets under management $ 1,275,555 $ 1,072,234
Brokerage and other assets 1,372,733 1,162,997
Deposits 263,103 268,700
Loans and leases (1) 179,296 167,938
Less: Managed deposits in assets under management (42,895 ) (51,013 )
Total client balances $ 3,047,792 $ 2,620,856

Assets Under Management Rollforward
Assets under management, beginning of year $ 1,072,234 $ 1,121,383
Net client flows 24,865 44,607
Market valuation/other 178,456 (93,756 )
Total assets under management, end of year $ 1,275,555 $ 1,072,234

Associates, at year end
Number of financial advisors 17,458 17,518
Total wealth advisors, including financial advisors 19,440 19,459
Total primary sales professionals, including financial advisors and wealth advisors 20,586 20,586

Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management Metric
Financial advisor productivity (in thousands) $ 1,082 $ 1,034

Bank of America Private Bank Metric, at year end
Primary sales professionals 1,766 1,748

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Client Balances
Client balances managed under advisory and/or discretion of GWIM are AUM and are typically held in diversified portfolios. Fees earned on AUM are calculated as a percentage of clients’ AUM balances. The asset management fees charged to clients per year depend on various factors, but are commonly driven by the breadth of the client’s relationship. The net client AUM flows represent the

net change in clients’ AUM balances over a specified period of time, excluding market appreciation/depreciation and other adjustments.
Client balances increased $426.9 billion, or 16 percent, to $3.0 trillion at December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018. The increase in client balances was primarily due to higher market valuations and positive net flows over the last year.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 36

Global Banking

-------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- -------- ------- --- - -- --

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 % Change
Net interest income $ 10,675 $ 10,993 (3 )%
Noninterest income:
Service charges 3,015 3,027 —
Investment banking fees 3,137 2,891 9
All other income 3,656 3,090 18
Total noninterest income 9,808 9,008 9
Total revenue, net of interest expense 20,483 20,001 2

Provision for credit losses 414 8 n/m
Noninterest expense 9,017 8,745 3
Income before income taxes 11,052 11,248 (2 )
Income tax expense 2,984 2,923 2
Net income $ 8,068 $ 8,325 (3 )

Effective tax rate 27.0 % 26.0 %

Net interest yield 2.75 3.01
Return on average allocated capital 20 20
Efficiency ratio 44.02 43.72

Balance Sheet

Average
Total loans and leases $ 374,304 $ 354,236 6 %
Total earning assets 388,152 364,748 6
Total assets 443,083 425,675 4
Total deposits 362,731 336,337 8
Allocated capital 41,000 41,000 —

Year end
Total loans and leases $ 379,268 $ 365,717 4 %
Total earning assets 407,180 377,812 8
Total assets 464,032 442,330 5
Total deposits 383,180 360,248 6

n/m = not meaningful

Global Banking, which includes Global Corporate Banking, Global Commercial Banking, Business Banking and Global Investment Banking, provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions, and underwriting and advisory services through our network of offices and client relationship teams. Our lending products and services include commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, commercial real estate lending and asset-based lending. Our treasury solutions business includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options. We also provide investment banking products to our clients such as debt and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and other advisory services. Underwriting debt and equity issuances, fixed-income and equity research, and certain market-based activities are executed through our global broker-dealer affiliates, which are our primary dealers in several countries. Within Global Banking, Global Commercial Banking clients generally include middle-market companies, commercial real estate firms and not-for-profit companies. Global Corporate Banking clients generally include large global corporations, financial institutions and leasing clients. Business Banking clients include mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring customized and integrated financial advice and solutions.
Net income for Global Banking decreased $257 million to $8.1 billion in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily driven by higher provision for credit losses and noninterest expense partially offset by higher revenue.

Revenue increased $482 million to $20.5 billion driven by higher noninterest income, partially offset by lower net interest income. Net interest income decreased $318 million to $10.7 billion primarily due to the allocation of ALM results and credit spread compression, partly offset by growth in loan and deposit balances.
Noninterest income increased $800 million to $9.8 billion primarily due to higher leasing-related revenue and investment banking fees. The provision for credit losses increased $406 million to $414 million primarily driven by reserve releases in 2018 primarily from energy exposures. Noninterest expense increased $272 million primarily due to continued investment in the business partially offset by lower FDIC expense.
The return on average allocated capital was 20 percent in 2019 and 2018. For information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking
Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking each include Business Lending and Global Transaction Services activities. Business Lending includes various lending-related products and services, and related hedging activities, including commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending and asset-based lending. Global Transaction Services includes deposits, treasury management, credit card, foreign exchange and short-term investment products.

------------------

37 Bank of America

The table below and following discussion present a summary of the results, which exclude certain investment banking activities in Global Banking.

-------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------------------------ ---- ------------------------- ---- ---------------- ------- ----- ---- ------- ---- ------ ------- ---- ------ - ------ ------- - ------- - ------- - -------

Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking

 Global Corporate Banking Global Commercial Banking Business Banking Total
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Revenue
Business Lending $ 3,994 $ 3,904 $ 4,132 $ 4,330 $ 363 $ 431 $ 8,489 $ 8,665
Global Transaction Services 3,994 3,832 3,499 3,346 1,064 987 8,557 8,165
Total revenue, net of interest expense $ 7,988 $ 7,736 $ 7,631 $ 7,676 $ 1,427 $ 1,418 $ 17,046 $ 16,830

Balance Sheet

Average
Total loans and leases $ 177,713 $ 163,516 $ 181,485 $ 174,279 $ 15,058 $ 16,432 $ 374,256 $ 354,227
Total deposits 177,924 163,559 144,620 135,337 40,196 37,462 362,740 336,358

Year end
Total loans and leases $ 181,409 $ 174,378 $ 182,727 $ 175,937 $ 15,152 $ 15,402 $ 379,288 $ 365,717
Total deposits 185,352 173,183 157,322 149,118 40,504 37,973 383,178 360,274

Business Lending revenue decreased $176 million in 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by the allocation of ALM results, partly offset by higher leasing-related revenue.
Global Transaction Services revenue increased $392 million in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by the impact of higher deposit balances.
Average loans and leases increased six percent in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by growth in the commercial and industrial portfolio. Average deposits increased eight percent due to growth in domestic and international interest-bearing balances.
Global Investment Banking
Client teams and product specialists underwrite and distribute debt, equity and loan products, and provide advisory services and tailored risk management solutions. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between Global Banking and Global Markets under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment

banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the portion attributable to Global Banking.

----------------------------- -------------- ----- ----------------- ----- ---- ----- ----- - - ----- - - -----

Investment Banking Fees

 Global Banking Total Corporation
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018
Products
Advisory $ 1,336 $ 1,153 $ 1,460 $ 1,258
Debt issuance 1,348 1,326 3,107 3,084
Equity issuance 453 412 1,259 1,183
Gross investment banking fees 3,137 2,891 5,826 5,525
Self-led deals (62 ) (68 ) (184 ) (198 )
Total investment banking fees $ 3,075 $ 2,823 $ 5,642 $ 5,327

Total Corporation investment banking fees, excluding self-led deals, of $5.6 billion, which are primarily included within Global Banking and Global Markets, increased six percent due to increases in advisory fees as well as higher equity issuance fees.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 38

Global Markets

-------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ------- -------- ------- --- - --- -

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 % Change
Net interest income $ 3,915 $ 3,857 2 %
Noninterest income:
Investment and brokerage services 1,738 1,780 (2 )
Investment banking fees 2,288 2,296 —
Market making and similar activities 7,065 7,260 (3 )
All other income 608 990 (39 )
Total noninterest income 11,699 12,326 (5 )
Total revenue, net of interest expense 15,614 16,183 (4 )

Provision for credit losses (9 ) — n/m
Noninterest expense 10,722 10,835 (1 )
Income before income taxes 4,901 5,348 (8 )
Income tax expense 1,397 1,390 1
Net income $ 3,504 $ 3,958 (11 )

Effective tax rate 28.5 % 26.0 %

Return on average allocated capital 10 11
Efficiency ratio 68.67 66.96

Balance Sheet
Average
Trading-related assets:
Trading account securities $ 246,335 $ 215,112 15 %
Reverse repurchases 116,883 125,084 (7 )
Securities borrowed 83,216 78,889 5
Derivative assets 43,271 46,047 (6 )
Total trading-related assets 489,705 465,132 5
Total loans and leases 71,334 72,651 (2 )
Total earning assets 476,225 473,383 1
Total assets 679,297 666,000 2
Total deposits 31,380 31,209 1
Allocated capital 35,000 35,000 —

Year end
Total trading-related assets $ 452,496 $ 447,998 1 %
Total loans and leases 72,993 73,928 (1 )
Total earning assets 471,701 457,224 3
Total assets 641,806 641,923 —
Total deposits 34,676 37,841 (8 )

n/m = not meaningful

Global Markets offers sales and trading services and research services to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit, currency, commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets product coverage includes securities and derivative products in both the primary and secondary markets. Global Markets provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to our institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities. We also work with our commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products. As a result of our market-making activities in these products, we may be required to manage risk in a broad range of financial products including government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities, syndicated loans, MBS, commodities and asset-backed securities. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between Global Markets and Global Banking under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. For information on investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page 38.

The following explanations for year-over-year changes in results for Global Markets, including those disclosed under Sales and Trading Revenue, exclude net DVA, but the explanations would be the same if net DVA was included.
Net income for Global Markets decreased $454 million to $3.5 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. Net DVA losses were $222 million compared to losses of $162 million in 2018. Excluding net DVA, net income decreased $408 million to $3.7 billion. These decreases were primarily driven by a decrease in revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.
Revenue declined $569 million to $15.6 billion as sales and trading revenue decreased $492 million, and excluding net DVA, decreased $432 million. These decreases were primarily driven by a decline in Equities revenue. Noninterest expense decreased $113 million to $10.7 billion, primarily driven by lower revenue-related expenses.
Average total assets increased $13.3 billion to $679.3 billion, primarily due to increased levels of inventory in fixed-income, currencies and commodities (FICC) to facilitate expected client demand. Year-end total assets were largely unchanged at $641.8 billion.
The return on average allocated capital was 10 percent, down from 11 percent, reflecting lower net income. For information on

------------------

39 Bank of America

capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.
Sales and Trading Revenue
Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized gains and losses on trading and other assets which are included in market making and similar activities, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Sales and trading revenue is segregated into fixed-income (government debt obligations, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt obligations, commercial MBS, residential mortgage-backed securities, collateralized loan obligations, interest rate and credit derivative contracts), currencies (interest rate and foreign exchange contracts), commodities (primarily futures, forwards, swaps and options) and equities (equity-linked derivatives and cash equity activity). The following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue, substantially all of which is in Global Markets, with the remainder in Global Banking. In addition, the following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information on net DVA, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27.

-------------------------------------------------- ----- ------ ---- ----- - ------

Sales and Trading Revenue (1, 2, 3)

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Sales and trading revenue (2)
Fixed-income, currencies and commodities $ 8,188 $ 8,271
Equities 4,491 4,900
Total sales and trading revenue $ 12,679 $ 13,171

Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA (4)
Fixed-income, currencies and commodities $ 8,396 $ 8,413
Equities 4,505 4,920
Total sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA $ 12,901 $ 13,333

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) For more information on sales and trading revenue, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes FTE adjustments of $189 million and $248 million for 2019 and 2018.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Includes Global Banking sales and trading revenue of $533 million and $421 million for 2019 and 2018.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) FICC and Equities sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, is a non-GAAP financial measure. FICC net DVA losses were $208 million and $142 million for 2019 and 2018. Equities net DVA losses were $14 million and $20 million for 2019 and 2018.

FICC revenue decreased $17 million. Equities revenue decreased $415 million driven by under performance in equity derivatives compared to a strong prior year which benefited from higher client activity and a more volatile market environment.

All Other

-------------------------------------- ------- ------ ---- ------- -------- ------ -- - --- --

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 % Change
Net interest income $ 234 $ 632 (63 )%
Noninterest income (loss) (2,616 ) (2,257 ) 16
Total revenue, net of interest expense (2,382 ) (1,625 ) 47

Provision for credit losses (669 ) (476 ) 41
Noninterest expense 3,720 1,887 97
Loss before income taxes (5,433 ) (3,036 ) 79
Income tax benefit (4,055 ) (2,780 ) 46
Net loss $ (1,378 ) $ (256 ) n/m

Balance Sheet

Average
Total loans and leases $ 42,933 $ 61,013 (30 )%
Total assets (1) 210,771 199,978 5
Total deposits 21,434 21,966 (2 )

Year end
Total loans and leases $ 37,151 $ 48,061 (23 )%
Total assets (1) 224,466 195,466 15
Total deposits 23,166 18,541 25

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) In segments where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-taking segments, we allocate assets from All Other to those segments to match liabilities (i.e., deposits) and allocated shareholders’ equity. Average allocated assets were 544.2 billion and $517.0 billion for 2019 and 2018, and year-end allocated assets were $565.3 billion and $540.8 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

n/m = not meaningful

All Other consists of ALM activities, equity investments, non-core mortgage loans and servicing activities, liquidating businesses and certain expenses not otherwise allocated to a business segment. ALM activities encompass certain residential mortgages, debt securities, and interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities. Substantially all of the results of ALM activities are allocated to our business segments. For more information on our ALM activities, see Note 24 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity investments include our merchant services joint venture, as well as a portfolio of equity, real estate and other alternative investments. For information on our merchant services joint venture, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Residential mortgage loans that are held for ALM purposes, including interest rate or liquidity risk management, are classified as core and are presented on the balance sheet of All Other. During 2019, residential mortgage loans held for ALM activities decreased $3.2 billion to $21.7 billion primarily as a result of payoffs and paydowns. Non-core residential mortgage and home equity loans, which are principally runoff portfolios, are also held in All Other. During 2019, total non-core loans decreased $7.8 billion to $15.7 billion due primarily to payoffs, paydowns and sales, as well as Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan conveyances, partially offset by repurchases. For more information on the composition of the core and non-core portfolios, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 54.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 40

The net loss for All Other increased $1.1 billion to a net loss of $1.4 billion, primarily driven by the $2.1 billion pretax impairment charge disclosed in Executive Summary – Recent Developments – Merchant Services Joint Venture, as well as lower revenue, partially offset by a higher benefit in the provision for credit losses.
Revenue decreased $757 million due to lower net interest income and an increase in the loss in noninterest income. Net interest income decreased $398 million due to the impact of non-core consumer real estate loan sales and portfolio run-off. The loss in noninterest income increased $359 million primarily due to lower gains on sales of non-core consumer loans and higher partnership losses associated with an increase in tax-advantaged investments, partially offset by a $729 million charge related to the redemption of certain trust preferred securities in 2018.
Noninterest expense increased $1.8 billion to $3.7 billion primarily due to the aforementioned $2.1 billion pretax impairment charge.
The income tax benefit was $4.1 billion compared to a benefit of $2.8 billion in 2018. The increase in the tax benefit was primarily driven by the tax effect of the higher pretax loss, the positive impact from the resolution of various tax controversy matters and a higher level of income tax credits. Both years included income tax benefit adjustments to eliminate the FTE treatment of certain tax credits recorded in Global Banking.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations
We have contractual obligations to make future payments on debt and lease agreements. Additionally, in the normal course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements whereby we commit to future purchases of products or services from unaffiliated parties. Purchase obligations are defined as obligations that are legally binding agreements whereby we agree

to purchase products or services with a specific minimum quantity at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified period of time. Included in purchase obligations are vendor contracts, the most significant of which include communication services, processing services and software contracts. Debt, lease and other obligations are more fully discussed in Note 12 – Long-term Debt and Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other long-term liabilities include our contractual funding obligations related to the Non-U.S. Pension Plans and Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans (together, the Plans). Obligations to the Plans are based on the current and projected obligations of the Plans, performance of the Plans’ assets, and any participant contributions, if applicable. During 2019 and 2018, we contributed $135 million and $156 million to the Plans, and we expect to make $128 million of contributions during 2020. The Plans are more fully discussed in Note 18 – Employee Benefit Plans to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We enter into commitments to extend credit such as loan commitments, standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and commercial letters of credit to meet the financing needs of our customers. For a summary of the total unfunded, or off-balance sheet, credit extension commitment amounts by expiration date, see Credit Extension Commitments in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We also utilize variable interest entities (VIEs) in the ordinary course of business to support our financing and investing needs as well as those of our customers. For more information on our involvement with unconsolidated VIEs, see Note 7 – Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 10 includes certain contractual obligations at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------ ---------------- -------------------------------------- ------ ------------------- ----- ------ ----- ------ ------- ------ - ------- - -------

Table 10 Contractual Obligations

 December 31, 2019 December 31 2018
(Dollars in millions) Due in One Year or Less Due AfterOne Year ThroughThree Years Due AfterThree Years ThroughFive Years Due AfterFive Years Total Total
Long-term debt $ 24,151 $ 46,049 $ 47,096 $ 123,560 $ 240,856 $ 229,392
Operating lease obligations 1,966 3,265 2,338 4,225 11,794 15,770
Purchase obligations 1,272 1,126 401 731 3,530 4,048
Time deposits 68,351 4,612 1,463 247 74,673 61,039
Other long-term liabilities 1,670 1,056 714 659 4,099 3,933
Estimated interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits (1) 5,571 8,073 6,870 23,871 44,385 56,852
Total contractual obligations $ 102,981 $ 64,181 $ 58,882 $ 153,293 $ 379,337 $ 371,034

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Represents forecasted net interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits based on interest rates at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Forecasts are based on the contractual maturity dates of each liability, and are net of derivative hedges, where applicable.

------------------

41 Bank of America

Representations and Warranties Obligations
For information on representations and warranties obligations in connection with the sale of mortgage loans, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Managing Risk
Overview
Risk is inherent in all our business activities. Sound risk management enables us to serve our customers and deliver for our shareholders. If not managed well, risks can result in financial loss, regulatory sanctions and penalties, and damage to our reputation, each of which may adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategies. We take a comprehensive approach to risk management with a defined Risk Framework and an articulated Risk Appetite Statement which are approved annually by the Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) and the Board.
The seven key types of risk faced by the Corporation are strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Strategic risk is the risk resulting from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments in the geographic locations in which we operate.

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations.

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Liquidity risk is the inability to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our businesses and customers under a range of economic conditions.

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules and regulations and our internal policies and procedures.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems, or from external events.

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
● Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation’s conduct or business practices may adversely impact its profitability or operations.

The following sections address in more detail the specific procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of risk. This discussion of managing risk focuses on the current Risk Framework that, as part of its annual review process, was approved by the ERC and the Board.
As set forth in our Risk Framework, a culture of managing risk well is fundamental to fulfilling our purpose and our values and delivering responsible growth. It requires us to focus on risk in all activities and encourages the necessary mindset and behavior to enable effective risk management, and promotes sound risk-taking within our risk appetite. Sustaining a culture of managing risk well

throughout the organization is critical to our success and is a clear expectation of our executive management team and the Board.
Our Risk Framework serves as the foundation for the consistent and effective management of risks facing the Corporation. The Risk Framework sets forth clear roles, responsibilities and accountability for the management of risk and provides a blueprint for how the Board, through delegation of authority to committees and executive officers, establishes risk appetite and associated limits for our activities.
Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the risk-adjusted returns of each business. Management reviews and approves the strategic and financial operating plans, as well as the capital plan and Risk Appetite Statement, and recommends them annually to the Board for approval. Our strategic plan takes into consideration return objectives and financial resources, which must align with risk capacity and risk appetite. Management sets financial objectives for each business by allocating capital and setting a target for return on capital for each business. Capital allocations and operating limits are regularly evaluated as part of our overall governance processes as the businesses and the economic environment in which we operate continue to evolve. For more information regarding capital allocations, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.
The Corporation’s risk appetite indicates the amount of capital, earnings or liquidity we are willing to put at risk to achieve our strategic objectives and business plans, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. Our risk appetite provides a common and comparable set of measures for senior management and the Board to clearly indicate our aggregate level of risk and to monitor whether the Corporation’s risk profile remains in alignment with our strategic and capital plans. Our risk appetite is formally articulated in the Risk Appetite Statement, which includes both qualitative components and quantitative limits.
Our overall capacity to take risk is limited; therefore, we prioritize the risks we take in order to maintain a strong and flexible financial position so we can withstand challenging economic conditions and take advantage of organic growth opportunities. Therefore, we set objectives and targets for capital and liquidity that are intended to permit us to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner, including during periods of stress.
Our lines of business operate with risk limits (which may include credit, market and/or operational limits, as applicable) that align with the Corporation’s risk appetite. Executive management is responsible for tracking and reporting performance measurements as well as any exceptions to guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when appropriate, oversee financial performance, execution of the strategic and financial operating plans, adherence to risk appetite limits and the adequacy of internal controls.
For a more detailed discussion of our risk management activities, see the discussion below and pages 45 through 77.
Risk Management Governance
The Risk Framework describes delegations of authority whereby the Board and its committees may delegate authority to management-level committees or executive officers. Such delegations may authorize certain decision-making and approval functions, which may be evidenced in, for example, committee charters, job descriptions, meeting minutes and resolutions.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 42

The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the Board, Board committees and management committees that have the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the Corporation.

(1) Reports to the CEO and CFO with oversight by the Audit Committee

Board of Directors and Board Committees
The Board is composed of 17 directors, all but one of whom are independent. The Board authorizes management to maintain an effective Risk Framework, and oversees compliance with safe and sound banking practices. In addition, the Board or its committees conduct inquiries of, and receive reports from management on risk-related matters to assess scope or resource limitations that could impede the ability of Independent Risk Management (IRM) and/or Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Board committees discussed below have the principal responsibility for enterprise-wide oversight of our risk management activities. Through these activities, the Board and applicable committees are provided with information on our risk profile and oversee executive management addressing key risks we face. Other Board committees, as described below, provide additional oversight of specific risks.
Each of the committees shown on the above chart regularly reports to the Board on risk-related matters within the committee’s responsibilities, which is intended to collectively provide the Board with integrated insight about our management of enterprise-wide risks.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee oversees the qualifications, performance and independence of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the performance of our corporate audit function, the integrity of our consolidated financial statements, our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and makes inquiries of management or the Chief Audit Executive (CAE) to determine whether there are scope or resource limitations that impede the ability of Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Audit Committee is also responsible for overseeing compliance risk pursuant to the New York Stock Exchange listing standards.
Enterprise Risk Committee
The ERC has primary responsibility for oversight of the Risk Framework and key risks we face and of the Corporation’s overall risk appetite. It approves the Risk Framework and the Risk Appetite Statement and further recommends these documents to the Board for approval. The ERC oversees senior management’s responsibilities for the identification, measurement, monitoring and control of key risks we face. The ERC may consult with other Board committees on risk-related matters.

Other Board Committees
Our Corporate Governance, ESG, and Sustainability Committee oversees our Board’s governance processes, identifies and reviews the qualifications of potential Board members, recommends nominees for election to our Board, recommends committee appointments for Board approval and reviews our Environmental, Social and Governance and stockholder engagement activities.
Our Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees establishing, maintaining and administering our compensation programs and employee benefit plans, including approving and recommending our Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO) compensation to our Board for further approval by all independent directors; reviewing and approving all of our executive officers’ compensation, as well as compensation for non-management directors; and reviewing certain other human capital management topics.
Management Committees
Management committees may receive their authority from the Board, a Board committee, another management committee or from one or more executive officers. Our primary management-level risk committee is the Management Risk Committee (MRC). Subject to Board oversight, the MRC is responsible for management oversight of key risks facing the Corporation. This includes providing management oversight of our compliance and operational risk programs, balance sheet and capital management, funding activities and other liquidity activities, stress testing, trading activities, recovery and resolution planning, model risk, subsidiary governance and activities between member banks and their nonbank affiliates pursuant to Federal Reserve rules and regulations, among other things.
Lines of Defense
We have clear ownership and accountability across three lines of defense: Front Line Units (FLUs), IRM and Corporate Audit. We also have control functions outside of FLUs and IRM (e.g., Legal and Global Human Resources). The three lines of defense are integrated into our management-level governance structure. Each of these functional roles is described in more detail below.

------------------

43 Bank of America

Executive Officers
Executive officers lead various functions representing the functional roles. Authority for functional roles may be delegated to executive officers from the Board, Board committees or management-level committees. Executive officers, in turn, may further delegate responsibilities, as appropriate, to management-level committees, management routines or individuals. Executive officers review our activities for consistency with our Risk Framework, Risk Appetite Statement and applicable strategic, capital and financial operating plans, as well as applicable policies, standards, procedures and processes. Executive officers and other employees make decisions individually on a day-to-day basis, consistent with the authority they have been delegated. Executive officers and other employees may also serve on committees and participate in committee decisions.
Front Line Units
FLUs, which include the lines of business as well as the Global Technology and Operations Group, are responsible for appropriately assessing and effectively managing all of the risks associated with their activities.
Three organizational units that include FLU activities and control function activities, but are not part of IRM are first, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Group; second, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG), Capital Deployment (CD) and Public Policy (PP); and third, the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Group.
Independent Risk Management
IRM is part of our control functions and includes Global Risk Management. We have other control functions that are not part of IRM (other control functions may also provide oversight to FLU activities), including Legal, Global Human Resources and certain activities within the CFO Group; ESG, CD and PP; and CAO Group. IRM, led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), is responsible for independently assessing and overseeing risks within FLUs and other control functions. IRM establishes written enterprise policies and procedures that include concentration risk limits, where appropriate. Such policies and procedures outline how aggregate risks are identified, measured, monitored and controlled.
The CRO has the stature, authority and independence to develop and implement a meaningful risk management framework. The CRO has unrestricted access to the Board and reports directly to both the ERC and to the CEO. Global Risk Management is organized into horizontal risk teams that cover a specific risk area and vertical CRO teams that cover a particular front line unit or control function. These teams work collaboratively in executing their respective duties.
Corporate Audit
Corporate Audit and the CAE maintain their independence from the FLUs, IRM and other control functions by reporting directly to the Audit Committee or the Board. The CAE administratively reports to the CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key processes and controls across the Corporation. Corporate Audit includes Credit Review which periodically tests and examines credit portfolios and processes.
Risk Management Processes
The Risk Framework requires that strong risk management practices are integrated in key strategic, capital and financial planning processes and in day-to-day business processes across the Corporation, with a goal of ensuring risks are appropriately considered, evaluated and responded to in a timely manner.

We employ our risk management process, referred to as Identify, Measure, Monitor and Control, as part of our daily activities.
Identify – To be effectively managed, risks must be clearly defined and proactively identified. Proper risk identification focuses on recognizing and understanding key risks inherent in our business activities or key risks that may arise from external factors. Each employee is expected to identify and escalate risks promptly. Risk identification is an ongoing process, incorporating input from FLUs and control functions, designed to be forward looking and capture relevant risk factors across all of our lines of business.
Measure – Once a risk is identified, it must be prioritized and accurately measured through a systematic risk quantification process including quantitative and qualitative components. Risk is measured at various levels including, but not limited to, risk type, FLU, legal entity and on an aggregate basis. This risk quantification process helps to capture changes in our risk profile due to changes in strategic direction, concentrations, portfolio quality and the overall economic environment. Senior management considers how risk exposures might evolve under a variety of stress scenarios.
Monitor – We monitor risk levels regularly to track adherence to risk appetite, policies, standards, procedures and processes. We also regularly update risk assessments and review risk exposures. Through our monitoring, we can determine our level of risk relative to limits and can take action in a timely manner. We also can determine when risk limits are breached and have processes to appropriately report and escalate exceptions. This includes requests for approval to managers and alerts to executive management, management-level committees or the Board (directly or through an appropriate committee).
Control – We establish and communicate risk limits and controls through policies, standards, procedures and processes that define the responsibilities and authority for risk-taking. The limits and controls can be adjusted by the Board or management when conditions or risk tolerances warrant. These limits may be absolute (e.g., loan amount, trading volume) or relative (e.g., percentage of loan book in higher-risk categories). Our lines of business are held accountable to perform within the established limits.
The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of our overall risk management process. We instill a strong and comprehensive culture of managing risk well through communications, training, policies, procedures and organizational roles and responsibilities. Establishing a culture reflective of our purpose to help make our customers’ financial lives better and delivering our responsible growth strategy is also critical to effective risk management. We understand that improper actions, behaviors or practices that are illegal, unethical or contrary to our core values could result in harm to the Corporation, our shareholders or our customers, damage the integrity of the financial markets, or negatively impact our reputation, and have established protocols and structures so that such conduct risk is governed and reported across the Corporation. Specifically, our Code of Conduct provides a framework for all of our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. Additionally, we continue to strengthen the link between the employee performance management process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward enterprise-wide risk goals.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 44

Corporation-wide Stress Testing
Integral to our Capital Planning, Financial Planning and Strategic Planning processes, we conduct capital scenario management and stress forecasting on a periodic basis to better understand balance sheet, earnings and capital sensitivities to certain economic and business scenarios, including economic and market conditions that are more severe than anticipated. These stress forecasts provide an understanding of the potential impacts from our risk profile on the balance sheet, earnings and capital, and serve as a key component of our capital and risk management practices. The intent of stress testing is to develop a comprehensive understanding of potential impacts of on- and off-balance sheet risks at the Corporation and how they impact financial resiliency, which provides confidence to management, regulators and our investors.
Contingency Planning
We have developed and maintain contingency plans that are designed to prepare us in advance to respond in the event of potential adverse economic, financial or market stress. These contingency plans include our Capital Contingency Plan and Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan, which provide monitoring, escalation, actions and routines designed to enable us to increase capital, access funding sources and reduce risk through consideration of potential options that include asset sales, business sales, capital or debt issuances, or other de-risking strategies. We also maintain a Resolution Plan to limit adverse systemic impacts that could be associated with a potential resolution of Bank of America.

Strategic Risk Management
Strategic risk is embedded in every business and is one of the major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. This risk results from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments, in the geographic locations in which we operate, such as competitor actions, changing customer preferences, product obsolescence and technology developments. Our strategic plan is consistent with our risk appetite, capital plan and liquidity requirements, and specifically addresses strategic risks.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews and approves the strategic plan, capital plan, financial operating plan and Risk Appetite Statement. With oversight by the Board, executive management directs the lines of business to execute our strategic plan consistent with our core operating principles and risk appetite. The executive management team monitors business performance throughout the year and provides the Board with regular progress reports on whether strategic objectives and timelines are being met, including reports on strategic risks and if additional or alternative actions need to be considered or implemented. The regular executive reviews focus on assessing forecasted earnings and returns on capital, the current risk profile, current capital and liquidity requirements, staffing levels and changes required to support the strategic plan, stress testing results, and other qualitative factors such as market growth rates and peer analysis.
Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material acquisitions or divestitures, and resolution plans are reviewed and approved by the Board. At the business level, processes are in place to discuss the strategic risk implications of new, expanded or modified businesses, products or services and other strategic initiatives, and to provide formal review and approval where required. With oversight by the Board and the ERC, executive

management performs similar analyses throughout the year, and evaluates changes to the financial forecast or the risk, capital or liquidity positions as deemed appropriate to balance and optimize achieving the targeted risk appetite, shareholder returns and maintaining the targeted financial strength. Proprietary models are used to measure the capital requirements for credit, country, market, operational and strategic risks. The allocated capital assigned to each business is based on its unique risk profile. With oversight by the Board, executive management assesses the risk-adjusted returns of each business in approving strategic and financial operating plans. The businesses use allocated capital to define business strategies, and price products and transactions.

Capital Management
The Corporation manages its capital position so that its capital is more than adequate to support its business activities and aligns with risk, risk appetite and strategic planning. Additionally, we seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, even under adverse scenarios, take advantage of organic growth opportunities, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as a credit intermediary, remain a source of strength for our subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital requirements. Capital management is integrated into our risk and governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in the development of our strategic plan, risk appetite and risk limits.
We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) on a periodic basis. The ICAAP is a forward-looking assessment of our projected capital needs and resources, incorporating earnings, balance sheet and risk forecasts under baseline and adverse economic and market conditions. We utilize periodic stress tests to assess the potential impacts to our balance sheet, earnings, regulatory capital and liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We perform qualitative risk assessments to identify and assess material risks not fully captured in our forecasts or stress tests. We assess the potential capital impacts of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements. Management assesses ICAAP results and provides documented quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our capital guidelines and capital position to the Board or its committees.
We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. For more information, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.
CCAR and Capital Planning
The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and requests for capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the rules governing the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) capital plan.
On June 27, 2019, following the Federal Reserve’s non-objection to our 2019 CCAR capital plan, the Board authorized the repurchase of approximately $30.9 billion in common stock from July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020, which includes approximately $900 million to offset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans during the same period. During 2019, pursuant to the Board’s authorizations, including those related to our 2018 CCAR capital plan that expired June 30, 2019, we repurchased $28.1 billion of common stock, which includes common stock repurchases to offset equity-based compensation awards. At December 31, 2019, our remaining stock repurchase authorization was $15.6 billion.
Our stock repurchases are subject to various factors, including the Corporation’s capital position, liquidity, financial performance and alternative uses of capital, stock trading price and general

------------------

45 Bank of America

market conditions, and may be suspended at any time. The repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including repurchase plans that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act).
Regulatory Capital
As a financial services holding company, we are subject to regulatory capital rules, including Basel 3, issued by U.S. banking regulators. Basel 3 established minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements and outlined two methods of calculating risk-weighted assets, the Standardized approach and the Advanced approaches. The Standardized approach relies primarily on supervisory risk weights based on exposure type, and the Advanced approaches determine risk weights based on internal models.
The Corporation's depository institution subsidiaries are also subject to the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. The Corporation and its primary affiliated banking entity, BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3 and are required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy including under the PCA framework. As of December 31, 2019, the Common equity tier 1 (CET1) and Tier 1 capital ratios for the Corporation were lower under the Standardized approach whereas the Advanced approaches yielded a lower Total capital ratio.
Minimum Capital Requirements
Minimum capital requirements and related buffers were fully phased in as of January 1, 2019. The PCA framework established categories of capitalization, including well capitalized, based on

the Basel 3 regulatory ratio requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization, with no mandatory actions required for well-capitalized banking organizations.
In order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments, the Corporation must meet risk-based capital ratio requirements that include a capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent, plus any applicable countercyclical capital buffer and a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge. The buffers and surcharge must be comprised solely of CET1 capital.
The Corporation is also required to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Our insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum 6.0 percent SLR to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework. The numerator of the SLR is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital. The denominator is total leverage exposure based on the daily average of the sum of on-balance sheet exposures less permitted Tier 1 deductions, as well as the simple average of certain off-balance sheet exposures, as of the end of each month in a quarter.
Capital Composition and Ratios
Table 11 presents Bank of America Corporation’s capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2019 and 2018. As of the periods presented herein, the Corporation met the definition of well capitalized under current regulatory requirements.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 46

--------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------- ------------------ ------- --------------------- ------- ----- -

Table 11 Bank of America Corporation Regulatory Capital under Basel 3

 StandardizedApproach AdvancedApproaches RegulatoryMinimum (1)
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2019
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 166,760 $ 166,760
Tier 1 capital 188,492 188,492
Total capital (2) 221,230 213,098
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,493 1,447
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.2 % 11.5 % 9.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.6 13.0 11.0
Total capital ratio 14.8 14.7 13.0

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 2,374 $ 2,374
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.9 % 7.9 % 4.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,946
SLR 6.4 % 5.0

 December 31, 2018
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 167,272 $ 167,272
Tier 1 capital 189,038 189,038
Total capital (2) 221,304 212,878
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,437 1,409
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.6 % 11.9 % 8.25 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.2 13.4 9.75
Total capital ratio 15.4 15.1 11.75

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 2,258 $ 2,258
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.4 % 8.4 % 4.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,791
SLR 6.8 % 5.0

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) The capital conservation buffer and G-SIB surcharge were 2.5 percent at December 31, 2019 and 1.875 percent at December 31, 2018. The countercyclical capital buffer for both periods was zero. The SLR minimum includes a leverage buffer of 2.0 percent.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.

At December 31, 2019, CET1 capital and Total capital under the Advanced approaches were relatively unchanged compared to December 31, 2018. Risk-weighted assets under the Standardized approach, which yielded the lower CET1 capital ratio at December 31, 2019, increased $56.3 billion during 2019 to $1,493 billion

primarily due to loan growth and increased client activity in Global Markets and Global Banking.
Table 12 shows the capital composition at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------- ----------- ---- ------- - -------

Table 12 Capital Composition under Basel 3

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Total common shareholders’ equity $ 241,409 $ 242,999
Goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities (68,570 ) (68,572 )
Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (5,193 ) (5,981 )
Intangibles, other than mortgage servicing rights and goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities (1,328 ) (1,294 )
Other 442 120
Common equity tier 1 capital 166,760 167,272
Qualifying preferred stock, net of issuance cost 22,329 22,326
Other (597 ) (560 )
Tier 1 capital 188,492 189,038
Tier 2 capital instruments 22,538 21,887
Eligible credit reserves included in Tier 2 capital 2,097 1,972
Other (29 ) (19 )
Total capital under the Advanced approaches $ 213,098 $ 212,878

------------------

47 Bank of America

Table 13 shows the components of risk-weighted assets as measured under Basel 3 at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----- ------------------- --- --------------------- ----- ------------------- - ----- - -----

Table 13 Risk-weighted Assets under Basel 3

 Standardized Approach Advanced Approaches Standardized Approach Advanced Approaches
 December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2019 2018
Credit risk $ 1,437 $ 858 $ 1,384 $ 827
Market risk 56 55 53 52
Operational risk n/a 500 n/a 500
Risks related to credit valuation adjustments n/a 34 n/a 30
Total risk-weighted assets $ 1,493 $ 1,447 $ 1,437 $ 1,409

n/a = not applicable

Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital
Table 14 presents regulatory capital information for BANA in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2019 and 2018. BANA met the definition of well capitalized under the PCA framework at both year ends.

--------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------ -------------------- --- ------------------ - --------------------- ---- -

Table 14 Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital under Basel 3

 StandardizedApproach AdvancedApproaches RegulatoryMinimum (1)
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2019
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 154,626 $ 154,626
Tier 1 capital 154,626 154,626
Total capital (2) 166,567 158,665
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,241 991
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 % 15.6 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 15.6 8.5
Total capital ratio 13.4 16.0 10.5

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 1,780 $ 1,780
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.7 % 8.7 % 5.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,177
SLR 7.1 % 6.0

 December 31, 2018
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 149,824 $ 149,824
Tier 1 capital 149,824 149,824
Total capital (2) 161,760 153,627
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,195 959
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 % 15.6 % 6.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 15.6 8.0
Total capital ratio 13.5 16.0 10.0

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 1,719 $ 1,719
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.7 % 8.7 % 5.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,112
SLR 7.1 % 6.0

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Risk-based capital regulatory minimums at December 31, 2019 are the minimum ratios under Basel 3 including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent. The regulatory minimums for the leverage ratios as of both period ends and risk-based capital ratios as of December 31, 2018 are the percent required to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Requirements
Effective January 1, 2019, the Corporation is subject to the Federal Reserve’s final rule requiring G-SIBs to maintain minimum levels of total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) and long-term debt. TLAC consists of the Corporation’s Tier 1 capital and eligible long-term debt issued directly by the Corporation. Eligible long-term debt for TLAC ratios is comprised of unsecured debt that has a remaining

maturity of at least one year and satisfies additional requirements as prescribed in the TLAC final rule. As with the risk-based capital ratios and SLR, the Corporation is required to maintain TLAC ratios in excess of minimum requirements plus applicable buffers to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Table 15 presents the Corporation's TLAC and long-term debt ratios and related information as of December 31, 2019.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 48

-------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------------- ---- -------------- ---------------------- ------- --- -

Table 15 Bank of America Corporation Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt

 TLAC Regulatory Minimum (1) Long-term Debt Regulatory Minimum (2)
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2019
Total eligible balance $ 367,449 $ 171,349
Percentage of risk-weighted assets (3) 24.6 % 22.0 % 11.5 % 8.5 %
Percentage of SLR leverage exposure 12.5 9.5 5.8 4.5

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) The TLAC risk-weighted assets regulatory minimum consists of 18.0 percent plus a TLAC risk-weighted assets buffer comprised of 2.5 percent plus the method 1 G-SIB surcharge of 1.5 percent. The countercyclical buffer is zero for this period. The TLAC SLR leverage exposure regulatory minimum consists of 7.5 percent plus a 2.0 percent TLAC leverage buffer. The TLAC risk-weighted assets and leverage buffers must be comprised solely of CET1 capital and Tier 1 capital, respectively.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) The long-term debt risk-weighted assets regulatory minimum is comprised of 6.0 percent plus an additional 2.5 percent requirement based on the Corporation’s method 2 G-SIB surcharge. The long-term debt leverage exposure regulatory minimum is 4.5 percent.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) The approach that yields the higher risk-weighted assets is used to calculate TLAC and long-term debt ratios, which was the Standardized approach as of December 31, 2019.

Regulatory Capital and Securities Regulation
The Corporation’s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are BofA Securities, Inc. (BofAS), Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp. (MLPCC) and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S). BofAS was formed as a result of the reorganization of MLPF&S which was completed in May 2019. The Corporation's principal European broker-dealer subsidiaries are Merrill Lynch International (MLI) and BofA Securities Europe SA (BofASE).
The U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the net capital requirements of Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act. BofAS computes its minimum capital requirements as an alternative net capital broker-dealer under Rule 15c3-1, and MLPCC and MLPF&S compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with the alternative standard under Rule 15c3-1. BofAS and MLPCC are also registered as futures commission merchants and are subject to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Regulation 1.17.
BofAS provides institutional services, and in accordance with the alternative net capital requirements, is required to maintain tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion and net capital in excess of the greater of $500 million or a certain percentage of its reserve requirement. BofAS must also notify the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the event its tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion. BofAS is also required to hold a certain percentage of its risk-based margin in order to meet its CFTC minimum net capital requirement. At December 31, 2019, BofAS had tentative net capital of $12.5 billion. BofAS also had regulatory net capital of $10.4 billion which exceeded the minimum requirement of $2.4 billion.
MLPCC is a fully-guaranteed subsidiary of BofAS and provides clearing and settlement services. At December 31, 2019, MLPCC’s regulatory net capital of $5.3 billion exceeded the minimum requirement of $1.3 billion.
MLPF&S provides retail services. At December 31, 2019, MLPF&S' regulatory net capital was $4.1 billion which exceeded the minimum requirement of $102 million.
Our European broker-dealers are regulated by non-U.S. regulators. MLI, a U.K. investment firm, is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the FCA and is subject to certain regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2019, MLI’s capital resources were $34.8 billion, which exceeded the minimum Pillar 1 requirement of $13.9 billion. BofASE, a French investment firm, is regulated by the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, and is subject to certain regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2019, BofASE's capital resources were $5.5 billion which exceeded the minimum Pillar 1 requirement of $1.3 billion.

Regulatory Developments
Revisions to Basel 3 to Address Current Expected Credit Loss Accounting
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the Corporation's relevant financial assets. For more information, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our adoption of the standard resulted in a decrease to the CET1 capital ratio of 17 bps, which will be phased in evenly, or approximately four bps per year, at the beginning of each year from January 1, 2020 through January 1, 2023 in accordance with transition provisions issued by the U.S. banking regulators.
Security-Based Swap Dealer Capital, Margin and Segregation Requirements
On June 21, 2019, the SEC published a final rule establishing capital, margin and segregation requirements for security-based swap dealers (SBSDs). The final rule increases the minimum net capital requirements for broker-dealers authorized to use internal models to compute alternative net capital (ANC broker-dealers). For ANC broker-dealers, the minimum tentative net capital requirement increased from $1.0 billion to $5.0 billion, and the net capital requirement was raised to the greater of $1.0 billion or two percent of the applicable risk-margin amount (initial margin maintained for cleared and non-cleared security-based swaps) plus two percent of certain customer-related assets. For stand-alone SBSDs that use models to calculate haircuts, the minimum tentative net capital requirement is $100 million and the minimum net capital requirement is the greater of $20 million or two percent of the risk-margin amount.
Capital Requirements for Swap Dealers
On December 10, 2019, the CFTC re-opened the comment period on its 2016 proposal to establish capital requirements for swap dealers and major swap participants that are not subject to existing U.S. prudential regulation. Under the proposal, applicable subsidiaries of the Corporation would be permitted to elect one of two approaches to compute their regulatory capital. The first approach is a bank-based capital approach which requires that firms maintain CET1 capital greater than or equal to the larger of 8.0 percent of the entity’s RWA as calculated under Basel 3, or 8.0 percent of the margin of the entity’s cleared and uncleared swaps, security-based swaps, futures and foreign futures positions. The second approach is based on net liquid assets and requires that a firm maintain net capital greater than or equal to 8.0 percent of the margin as described above. The proposal also includes liquidity and reporting requirements.

------------------

49 Bank of America

Single-Counterparty Credit Limits
The Federal Reserve established single-counterparty credit limits (SCCL) for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more. The SCCL rule is designed to ensure that the maximum possible loss that a BHC could incur due to the default of a single counterparty or a group of connected counterparties would not endanger the BHC’s survival, thereby reducing the probability of future financial crises. Beginning January 1, 2020, G-SIBs must calculate SCCL on a daily basis by dividing the aggregate net credit exposure to a given counterparty by the G-SIB’s Tier 1 capital, ensuring that exposures to other G-SIBs and nonbank financial institutions regulated by the Federal Reserve do not breach 15 percent of Tier 1 capital and exposures to most other counterparties do not breach 25 percent of Tier 1 capital. Certain exposures, including exposures to the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored entities and qualifying central counterparties, are exempt from the credit limits.

Liquidity Risk
Funding and Liquidity Risk Management
Our primary liquidity risk management objective is to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our businesses and customers under a range of economic conditions. To achieve that objective, we analyze and monitor our liquidity risk under expected and stressed conditions, maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources, including our stable deposit base, and seek to align liquidity-related incentives and risks.
We define liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities that we can use to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as those obligations arise. We manage our liquidity position through line of business and ALM activities, as well as through our legal entity funding strategy, on both a forward and current (including intraday) basis under both expected and stressed conditions. We believe that a centralized approach to funding and liquidity management enhances our ability to monitor liquidity requirements, maximizes access to funding sources, minimizes borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to liquidity events.
The Board approves our liquidity risk policy and the Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan. The ERC establishes our liquidity risk tolerance levels. The MRC is responsible for overseeing liquidity risks and directing management to maintain exposures within the established tolerance levels. The MRC reviews and monitors our liquidity position and stress testing results, approves certain liquidity risk limits and reviews the impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity. For more information, see Managing Risk on page 42. Under this governance framework, we have developed certain funding and liquidity risk management practices which include: maintaining liquidity at the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities; determining what amounts of liquidity are appropriate for these entities based on analysis of debt maturities and other potential cash outflows, including those that we may experience during stressed market conditions; diversifying funding sources, considering our asset profile and legal entity structure; and performing contingency planning.
NB Holdings Corporation
We have intercompany arrangements with certain key subsidiaries under which we transferred certain assets of Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, which is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries,

and agreed to transfer certain additional parent company assets not needed to satisfy anticipated near-term expenditures, to NB Holdings Corporation, a wholly-owned holding company subsidiary (NB Holdings). The parent company is expected to continue to have access to the same flow of dividends, interest and other amounts of cash necessary to service its debt, pay dividends and perform other obligations as it would have had if it had not entered into these arrangements and transferred any assets.
In consideration for the transfer of assets, NB Holdings issued a subordinated note to the parent company in a principal amount equal to the value of the transferred assets. The aggregate principal amount of the note will increase by the amount of any future asset transfers. NB Holdings also provided the parent company with a committed line of credit that allows the parent company to draw funds necessary to service near-term cash needs. These arrangements support our preferred single point of entry resolution strategy, under which only the parent company would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These arrangements include provisions to terminate the line of credit, forgive the subordinated note and require the parent company to transfer its remaining financial assets to NB Holdings if our projected liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that resolution of the parent company becomes imminent.
Global Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered Assets
We maintain liquidity available to the Corporation, including the parent company and selected subsidiaries, in the form of cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities. Our liquidity buffer, referred to as Global Liquidity Sources (GLS), is comprised of assets that are readily available to the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including holding company, bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, even during stressed market conditions. Our cash is primarily on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank and, to a lesser extent, central banks outside of the U.S. We limit the composition of high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities to U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency MBS and a select group of non-U.S. government securities. We can quickly obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales. We hold our GLS in legal entities that allow us to meet the liquidity requirements of our global businesses, and we consider the impact of potential regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that could limit the transferability of funds among entities.
Table 16 presents average GLS for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

-------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---- --- - ---

Table 16 Average Global Liquidity Sources

 Three Months EndedDecember 31
(Dollars in billions) 2019 2018
Parent company and NB Holdings $ 59 $ 76
Bank subsidiaries 454 420
Other regulated entities 63 48
Total Average Global Liquidity Sources $ 576 $ 544

Typically, parent company and NB Holdings liquidity is in the form of cash deposited with BANA.
Our bank subsidiaries’ liquidity is primarily driven by deposit and lending activity, as well as securities valuation and net debt activity. Liquidity at bank subsidiaries excludes the cash deposited by the parent company and NB Holdings. Our bank subsidiaries can also generate incremental liquidity by pledging a range of unencumbered loans and securities to certain FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The cash we could have

 ------------------

 Bank of America 50

obtained by borrowing against this pool of specifically-identified eligible assets was $372 billion and $344 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. We have established operational procedures to enable us to borrow against these assets, including regularly monitoring our total pool of eligible loans and securities collateral. Eligibility is defined in guidelines from the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve and is subject to change at their discretion. Due to regulatory restrictions, liquidity generated by the bank subsidiaries can generally be used only to fund obligations within the bank subsidiaries, and transfers to the parent company or nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to prior regulatory approval.
Liquidity held in other regulated entities, comprised primarily of broker-dealer subsidiaries, is primarily available to meet the obligations of that entity and transfers to the parent company or to any other subsidiary may be subject to prior regulatory approval due to regulatory restrictions and minimum requirements. Our other regulated entities also hold unencumbered investment-grade securities and equities that we believe could be used to generate additional liquidity.
Table 17 presents the composition of average GLS for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

----------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ---- --- - ---

Table 17 Average Global Liquidity Sources Composition

 Three Months EndedDecember 31
(Dollars in billions) 2019 2018
Cash on deposit $ 103 $ 113
U.S. Treasury securities 98 81
U.S. agency securities and mortgage-backed securities 358 340
Non-U.S. government securities 17 10
Total Average Global Liquidity Sources $ 576 $ 544

Our GLS are substantially the same in composition to what qualifies as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) under the final U.S. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) rules. However, HQLA for purposes of calculating LCR is not reported at market value, but at a lower value that incorporates regulatory deductions and the exclusion of excess liquidity held at certain subsidiaries. The LCR is calculated as the amount of a financial institution’s unencumbered HQLA relative to the estimated net cash outflows the institution could encounter over a 30-day period of significant liquidity stress, expressed as a percentage. Our average consolidated HQLA, on a net basis, was $464 billion and $446 billion for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. For the same periods, the average consolidated LCR was 116 percent and 118 percent. Our LCR fluctuates due to normal business flows from customer activity.
Liquidity Stress Analysis
We utilize liquidity stress analysis to assist us in determining the appropriate amounts of liquidity to maintain at the parent company and our subsidiaries to meet contractual and contingent cash outflows under a range of scenarios. The scenarios we consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and Corporation-specific events, including potential credit rating downgrades for the parent company and our subsidiaries, and more severe events including potential resolution scenarios. The scenarios are based on our historical experience, experience of distressed and failed financial institutions, regulatory guidance, and both expected and unexpected future events.
The types of potential contractual and contingent cash outflows we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not limited to, upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt and reductions in new debt issuance; diminished access to secured financing

markets; potential deposit withdrawals; increased draws on loan commitments, liquidity facilities and letters of credit; additional collateral that counterparties could call if our credit ratings were downgraded; collateral and margin requirements arising from market value changes; and potential liquidity required to maintain businesses and finance customer activities. Changes in certain market factors, including, but not limited to, credit rating downgrades, could negatively impact potential contractual and contingent outflows and the related financial instruments, and in some cases these impacts could be material to our financial results.
We consider all sources of funds that we could access during each stress scenario and focus particularly on matching available sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by legal entity. We also use the stress modeling results to manage our asset and liability profile and establish limits and guidelines on certain funding sources and businesses.
Net Stable Funding Ratio
U.S. banking regulators issued a proposal for a Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) requirement applicable to U.S. financial institutions following the Basel Committee’s final standard. The proposed U.S. NSFR would apply to the Corporation on a consolidated basis and to our insured depository institutions. While the final requirement remains pending and is subject to change, if finalized as proposed, we expect to be in compliance within the regulatory timeline. The standard is intended to reduce funding risk over a longer time horizon. The NSFR is designed to provide an appropriate amount of stable funding, generally capital and liabilities maturing beyond one year, given the mix of assets and off-balance sheet items.
Diversified Funding Sources
We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits, and secured and unsecured liabilities through a centralized, globally coordinated funding approach diversified across products, programs, markets, currencies and investor groups.
The primary benefits of our centralized funding approach include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the variable funding requirements of subsidiaries. Where regulations, time zone differences or other business considerations make parent company funding impractical, certain other subsidiaries may issue their own debt.
We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through our deposits, which were $1.43 trillion and $1.38 trillion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Deposits are primarily generated by our Consumer Banking, GWIM and Global Banking segments. These deposits are diversified by clients, product type and geography, and the majority of our U.S. deposits are insured by the FDIC. We consider a substantial portion of our deposits to be a stable, low-cost and consistent source of funding. We believe this deposit funding is generally less sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatility or changes in our credit ratings than wholesale funding sources. Our lending activities may also be financed through secured borrowings, including credit card securitizations and securitizations with government-sponsored enterprises (GSE), the FHA and private-label investors, as well as FHLB loans.
Our trading activities in other regulated entities are primarily funded on a secured basis through securities lending and repurchase agreements, and these amounts will vary based on customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding these activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-efficient and less sensitive to changes in our credit ratings than unsecured financing. Repurchase agreements are generally short-term and

------------------

51 Bank of America

often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing markets for financial institutions have occurred in prior market cycles which resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant reductions in the availability of such financing. We manage the liquidity risks arising from secured funding by sourcing funding globally from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. For more information on secured financing agreements, see Note 11 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We issue long-term unsecured debt in a variety of maturities and currencies to achieve cost-efficient funding and to maintain an appropriate maturity profile. While the cost and availability of unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general market conditions or by matters specific to the financial services industry or the Corporation, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk by actively managing the amount of our borrowings that we anticipate will mature within any month or quarter.
Table 18 presents our long-term debt by major currency at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--------------------- -------------------------------- ----------- ---- ------ - -------

Table 18 Long-term Debt by Major Currency

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
U.S. dollar $ 191,284 $ 180,724
Euro 32,781 34,328
British pound 5,067 5,450
Japanese yen 4,310 3,038
Canadian dollar 3,857 2,936
Australian dollar 1,957 1,722
Other 1,600 1,194
Total long-term debt $ 240,856 $ 229,392

Total long-term debt increased $11.5 billion during 2019, primarily due to debt issuances and valuation adjustments, partially offset by maturities and redemptions. We may, from time to time, purchase outstanding debt instruments in various transactions, depending on market conditions, liquidity and other factors. Our other regulated entities may also make markets in our debt instruments to provide liquidity for investors.
During 2019, the Corporation issued $52.5 billion of long-term debt consisting of $29.3 billion of notes issued by Bank of America Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $10.9 billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $12.3 billion of other debt, substantially all of which was structured liabilities. During 2018, the Corporation issued $64.4 billion of long-term debt consisting of $30.7 billion of notes issued by Bank of America Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $18.7 billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $15.0 billion of other debt, substantially all of which was structured liabilities.
During 2019, the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $50.6 billion consisting of $21.1 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $19.9 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $9.6 billion of other debt. During 2018, the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $53.3 billion consisting of $29.8 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $11.2 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $12.3 billion of other debt.
At December 31, 2019, Bank of America Corporation's senior notes of $159.8 billion included $107.7 billion of outstanding notes that are both TLAC eligible and callable at least one year before their stated maturities. Of these senior notes, $7.4 billion will be callable and become TLAC ineligible during 2020, and $11.7

billion, $14.8 billion, $10.7 billion and $9.2 billion will do so during each of 2021 through 2024, respectively, and $53.9 billion thereafter.
We use derivative transactions to manage the duration, interest rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering the characteristics of the assets they are funding. For more information on our ALM activities, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.
We may issue unsecured debt in the form of structured notes for client purposes, certain of which qualify as TLAC-eligible debt. During 2019, we issued $9.6 billion of structured notes, which are debt obligations that pay investors returns linked to other debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. We typically hedge the returns we are obligated to pay on these liabilities with derivatives and/or investments in the underlying instruments, so that from a funding perspective, the cost is similar to our other unsecured long-term debt. We could be required to settle certain structured note obligations for cash or other securities prior to maturity under certain circumstances, which we consider for liquidity planning purposes. We believe, however, that a portion of such borrowings will remain outstanding beyond the earliest put or redemption date.
Substantially all of our senior and subordinated debt obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a requirement for an early repayment, require additional collateral support, result in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create additional financial obligations upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price. For more information on long-term debt funding, including issuances and maturities and redemptions, see Note 12 – Long-term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Contingency Planning
We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity. These policies and plans are based on stress scenarios and include potential funding strategies and communication and notification procedures that we would implement in the event we experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review and test the contingency funding plans to validate efficacy and assess readiness.
Our U.S. bank subsidiaries can access contingency funding through the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Certain non-U.S. subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on these sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies, procedures and governance processes that would enable us to access these sources if necessary.
Credit Ratings
Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Thus, it is our objective to maintain high-quality credit ratings, and management maintains an active dialogue with the major rating agencies.
Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, and they consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control. The rating

 ------------------

 Bank of America 52

agencies could make adjustments to our ratings at any time, and they provide no assurances that they will maintain our ratings at current levels.
Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes to the rating agencies’ methodologies for our industry or certain security types; the rating agencies’ assessment of the general operating environment for financial services companies; our relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our various risk exposures and risk management policies and activities; pending litigation and other contingencies or potential tail risks; our reputation; our liquidity position, diversity of funding sources and funding costs; the current and expected level and volatility of our earnings; our capital position and capital management practices; our corporate governance; the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government; current or future regulatory and legislative initiatives; and the agencies’ views on whether the U.S. government would provide meaningful support to the Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis.
On June 12, 2019, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) completed its periodic review of the 12 large, complex securities trading and universal banks, including Bank of America Corporation. The agency affirmed the long-term and short-term senior debt ratings of the Corporation and all of its rated subsidiaries, except Bank of America Merrill

Lynch International Designated Activity Company, which Fitch upgraded by one notch to AA-/F1+. The rating outlook for all long-term ratings is currently stable.
On March 6, 2019, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) upgraded the long-term and short-term ratings of the Corporation by one notch to A2/P-1 from A3/P-2 for senior debt, as well as the long-term ratings of its rated subsidiaries, including BANA, which the agency upgraded to Aa2 from Aa3 for senior debt. Moody’s concurrently affirmed the short-term ratings of the Corporation’s rated subsidiaries, including BANA. Moody’s cited the Corporation’s strengthening profitability, continued adherence to a conservative risk profile and stable capital ratios as rationale for the upgrade. The rating outlook for all long-term ratings is currently stable.
The ratings from Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings (S&P) for the Corporation and its subsidiaries did not change during 2019. The long-term and short-term debt ratings of BofAS and BofASE, which were initially rated by S&P during the first quarter 2019, also remained unchanged during the rest of 2019.
Table 19 presents the Corporation’s current long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating agencies.

----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------------------------- ---------- -------------------------------- ------- ------------- --------- ---------- ------- --------- ---------- -------

Table 19 Senior Debt Ratings

 Moody’s Investors Service Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings Fitch Ratings
 Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook Long-term Short-term Outlook
Bank of America Corporation A2 P-1 Stable A- A-2 Stable A+ F1 Stable
Bank of America, N.A. Aa2 P-1 Stable A+ A-1 Stable AA- F1+ Stable
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Designated Activity Company NR NR NR A+ A-1 Stable AA- F1+ Stable
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated NR NR NR A+ A-1 Stable AA- F1+ Stable
BofA Securities, Inc. NR NR NR A+ A-1 Stable AA- F1+ Stable
Merrill Lynch International NR NR NR A+ A-1 Stable A+ F1 Stable
BofA Securities Europe SA NR NR NR A+ A-1 Stable A+ F1 Stable

NR = not rated

A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, potential loss of access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of downgrades of our or our rated subsidiaries’ credit ratings, the counterparties to those agreements may require us to provide additional collateral, or to terminate these contracts or agreements, which could cause us to sustain losses and/or adversely impact our liquidity. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing and the effect on our incremental cost of funds could be material.
While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full scope of the consequences of a credit rating downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it depends upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a company’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. For more information on potential impacts of credit rating downgrades, see Liquidity Risk – Liquidity Stress Analysis on page 51.

For more information on additional collateral and termination payments that could be required in connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements as a result of such a credit rating downgrade, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Common Stock Dividends
For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on common stock during 2019 and through February 19, 2020, see Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit Risk Management
Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk can also arise from operational failures that result in an erroneous advance, commitment or investment of funds. We define the credit exposure to a borrower or counterparty as the loss potential arising from all product classifications including loans and leases, deposit overdrafts, derivatives, assets held-for-sale and unfunded lending commitments which include loan commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees. Derivative positions are recorded at fair value and assets held-for-sale are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. Certain loans and unfunded commitments are accounted for under the fair value option. Credit risk for categories of assets carried at fair value is not accounted for as part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair

------------------

53 Bank of America

value adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions, our credit risk is measured as the net cost in the event the counterparties with contracts in which we are in a gain position fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. We use the current fair value to represent credit exposure without giving consideration to future mark-to-market changes. The credit risk amounts take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral. Our consumer and commercial credit extension and review procedures encompass funded and unfunded credit exposures. For more information on derivatives and credit extension commitments, see Note 3 – Derivatives and Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower or counterparty, repayment sources, the nature of underlying collateral, and other support given current events, conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each as discussed below.
We refine our underwriting and credit risk management practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing economic environment. To mitigate losses and enhance customer support in our consumer businesses, we have in place collection programs and loan modification and customer assistance infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to mitigate losses in the commercial businesses including increasing the frequency and intensity of portfolio monitoring, hedging activity and our practice of transferring management of deteriorating commercial exposures to independent special asset officers as credits enter criticized categories.
For more information on our credit risk management activities, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management below, Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 60, Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 66, Provision for Credit Losses on page 68, Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68, and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Note 6 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management
Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower’s credit cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting credit limits, and establishing operating processes and metrics to quantify and balance risks and returns. Statistical models are built using detailed behavioral information from external sources such as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience and are a component of our consumer credit risk management process. These models are used in part to assist in making both new and ongoing credit decisions, as well as portfolio management strategies, including authorizations and line management, collection practices and strategies, and determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses and allocated capital for credit risk.
Consumer Credit Portfolio
Improvement in home prices continued during 2019 resulting in improved credit quality compared to 2018. Net recoveries in the consumer real estate portfolio due primarily to non-core loan sales were partially offset by seasoning in the credit card portfolio compared to 2018.
Improved credit quality and continued loan balance runoff primarily in the non-core consumer real estate portfolio, partially offset by seasoning within the credit card portfolio, drove a $260 million decrease in the consumer allowance for loan and lease losses in 2019 to $4.5 billion. For more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68.
For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-offs and troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) for the consumer portfolio, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Table 20 presents our outstanding consumer loans and leases, consumer nonperforming loans and accruing consumer loans past due 90 days or more.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------- ------------- ------ -------------------------------- ------- ---- - ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- ---- - ----- - -----

Table 20 Consumer Credit Quality

 Outstandings Nonperforming Accruing Past Due90 Days or More
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Residential mortgage (1) $ 236,169 $ 208,557 $ 1,470 $ 1,893 $ 1,088 $ 1,884
Home equity 40,208 48,286 536 1,893 — —
Credit card 97,608 98,338 n/a n/a 1,042 994
Direct/Indirect consumer (2) 90,998 91,166 47 56 33 38
Other consumer 192 202 — — — —
Consumer loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option $ 465,175 $ 446,549 $ 2,053 $ 3,842 $ 2,163 $ 2,916
Loans accounted for under the fair value option (3) 594 682
Total consumer loans and leases $ 465,769 $ 447,231
Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases (4) n/a n/a 0.44 % 0.86 % 0.47 % 0.65 %
Percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases, excluding fully-insured loan portfolios (4) n/a n/a 0.46 0.90 0.24 0.24

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Residential mortgage loans accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, residential mortgage includes $740 million and $1.4 billion of loans on which interest had been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore were no longer accruing interest, although principal was still insured, and $348 million and $498 million of loans on which interest was still accruing.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Outstandings primarily include auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $50.4 billion and $50.1 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $36.7 billion and $37.0 billion and non-U.S. consumer loans of $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $257 million and $336 million and home equity loans of $337 million and $346 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018. For more information on the fair value option, see Note 22 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Excludes consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, $6 million and $12 million of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90 days or more and not accruing interest.

n/a = not applicable

 ------------------

 Bank of America 54

Table 21 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases.

------------------------ ------------------------------------------- --------------- ---- ------------------------- ---- ----- ----- - ----- ---- ---- -

Table 21 Consumer Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios

 Net Charge-offs Net Charge-off Ratios (1)
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018
Residential mortgage $ (47 ) $ 28 (0.02 )% 0.01 %
Home equity (358 ) (2 ) (0.81 ) —
Credit card 2,948 2,837 3.12 3.00
Direct/Indirect consumer 209 195 0.23 0.21
Other consumer 234 182 n/m n/m
Total $ 2,986 $ 3,240 0.66 0.72

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

n/m = not meaningful

Table 22 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances, net charge-offs, allowance for loan and lease losses and provision for loan and lease losses for the core and non-core portfolios within the consumer real estate portfolio. We categorize consumer real estate loans as core and non-core based on loan and customer characteristics such as origination date, product type, loan-to-value (LTV), Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score and delinquency status consistent with our current consumer and mortgage servicing strategy. Generally, loans that were originated after January 1, 2010, qualified under GSE underwriting guidelines, or otherwise met our underwriting guidelines in place in 2015 are characterized

as core loans. All other loans are generally characterized as non-core loans and represent runoff portfolios. Core loans as reported in Table 22 include loans held in the Consumer Banking and GWIM segments, as well as loans held for ALM activities in All Other.
As shown in Table 22, outstanding core consumer real estate loans increased $27.3 billion during 2019 driven by an increase of $32.1 billion in residential mortgage, partially offset by a $4.8 billion decrease in home equity.
During 2019, we sold $4.7 billion of consumer real estate loans, primarily non-core, compared to $11.6 billion in 2018.

------------------------------------ ---------------------------------- ------------ --------------- ------------- ---- ----------------------------------- ----- ----------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ----- - --- - ---- - - --

Table 22 Consumer Real Estate Portfolio (1)

 Outstandings Nonperforming
 December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Core portfolio
Residential mortgage $ 225,770 $ 193,695 $ 883 $ 1,010 $ 7 $ 11
Home equity 35,226 40,010 363 955 51 78
Total core portfolio 260,996 233,705 1,246 1,965 58 89
Non-core portfolio
Residential mortgage 10,399 14,862 587 883 (54 ) 17
Home equity 4,982 8,276 173 938 (409 ) (80 )
Total non-core portfolio 15,381 23,138 760 1,821 (463 ) (63 )
Consumer real estate portfolio
Residential mortgage 236,169 208,557 1,470 1,893 (47 ) 28
Home equity 40,208 48,286 536 1,893 (358 ) (2 )
Total consumer real estate portfolio $ 276,377 $ 256,843 $ 2,006 $ 3,786 $ (405 ) $ 26

 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Provision for Loan and Lease Losses
 December 31
 2019 2018 2019 2018
Core portfolio
Residential mortgage $ 229 $ 214 $ 22 $ 7
Home equity 120 228 (58 ) (60 )
Total core portfolio 349 442 (36 ) (53 )
Non-core portfolio
Residential mortgage 96 208 (134 ) (104 )
Home equity 101 278 (510 ) (335 )
Total non-core portfolio 197 486 (644 ) (439 )
Consumer real estate portfolio
Residential mortgage 325 422 (112 ) (97 )
Home equity 221 506 (568 ) (395 )
Total consumer real estate portfolio $ 546 $ 928 $ (680 ) $ (492 )

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $257 million and $336 million and home equity loans of $337 million and $346 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018. For more information, see Note 22 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

------------------

55 Bank of America

We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to exclude the impact of the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option is more representative of the ongoing operations and credit quality of the business. As a result, in the following tables and discussions of the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios, we exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option and provide information that excludes the impact of the fully-insured loan portfolio in certain credit quality statistics.
Residential Mortgage
The residential mortgage portfolio made up the largest percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 51 percent of consumer loans and leases at December 31, 2019. Approximately 50 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio was in Consumer Banking and 36 percent was in GWIM. The remaining portion was in All Other and was comprised of loans used in our overall ALM activities,

delinquent FHA loans repurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with the Government National Mortgage Association as well as loans repurchased related to our representations and warranties.
Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio increased $27.6 billion in 2019 as retention of new originations was partially offset by loan sales of $2.7 billion and runoff.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the residential mortgage portfolio included $18.7 billion and $20.1 billion of outstanding fully-insured loans, of which $11.2 billion and $14.0 billion had FHA insurance with the remainder protected by long-term standby agreements.
Table 23 presents certain residential mortgage key credit statistics on both a reported basis and excluding the fully-insured loan portfolio. The following discussion presents the residential mortgage portfolio excluding the fully-insured loan portfolio.

----------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- - - - ----- ------- ------------------ ----- --------------------------------- ------- ----- ---- - ------- - -------

Table 23 Residential Mortgage – Key Credit Statistics

 Reported Basis (1) Excluding Fully-insured Loans (1)
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018
Outstandings $ 236,169 $ 208,557 $ 217,479 $ 188,427
Accruing past due 30 days or more 3,108 3,945 1,296 1,155
Accruing past due 90 days or more 1,088 1,884 — —
Nonperforming loans 1,470 1,893 1,470 1,893
Percent of portfolio
Refreshed LTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 2 % 2 % 2 % 2 %
Refreshed LTV greater than 100 1 1 1 1
Refreshed FICO below 620 3 4 2 2
2006 and 2007 vintages (2) 4 6 4 6

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) These vintages of loans accounted for $365 million, or 25 percent, and $536 million, or 28 percent, of nonperforming residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Nonperforming residential mortgage loans decreased $423 million in 2019 primarily driven by sales. Of the nonperforming residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2019, $616 million, or 42 percent, were current on contractual payments. Loans accruing past due 30 days or more increased $141 million.
Net charge-offs improved $75 million to a net recovery of $47 million in 2019 compared to net charge-offs of $28 million in 2018 primarily due to recoveries from the sales of previously charged-off loans and continued improvement in credit quality.
Of the $217.5 billion in total residential mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2019, as shown in Table 23, 26 percent were originated as interest-only loans. The outstanding balance of interest-only residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period was $7.4 billion, or 13 percent, at December 31, 2019. Residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period generally have experienced a higher rate of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status compared to the residential mortgage portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2019, $124 million, or two percent, of outstanding interest-only residential mortgages that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more

compared to $1.3 billion, or one percent, for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, at December 31, 2019, $260 million, or four percent, of outstanding interest-only residential mortgage loans that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming, of which $108 million were contractually current, compared to $1.5 billion, or one percent, for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in our interest-only residential mortgage portfolio are primarily well-collateralized loans to our wealth management clients and have an interest-only period of three to ten years. Approximately 94 percent of these loans that have yet to enter the amortization period will not be required to make a fully-amortizing payment until 2022 or later.
Table 24 presents outstandings, nonperforming loans and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the residential mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented 16 percent of outstandings at both December 31, 2019 and 2018. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of outstandings at both December 31, 2019 and 2018.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 56

----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- ------- ----------------- ------ ---- ------- ---- ---- ----- ---- --- ----- -- - --- - - --- -

Table 24 Residential Mortgage State Concentrations

 Outstandings (1) Nonperforming (1)
 December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
California $ 88,998 $ 76,323 $ 274 $ 314 $ (22 ) $ (22 )
New York 22,385 19,219 196 222 5 10
Florida 12,833 11,624 143 221 (12 ) (6 )
Texas 8,943 7,820 65 102 1 4
New Jersey 8,734 7,051 77 98 (4 ) 8
Other 75,586 66,390 715 936 (15 ) 34
Residential mortgage loans $ 217,479 $ 188,427 $ 1,470 $ 1,893 $ (47 ) $ 28
Fully-insured loan portfolio 18,690 20,130
Total residential mortgage loan portfolio $ 236,169 $ 208,557

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Home Equity
At December 31, 2019, the home equity portfolio made up nine percent of the consumer portfolio and was comprised of home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans and reverse mortgages. We no longer originate home equity loans or reverse mortgages.
At December 31, 2019, our HELOC portfolio had an outstanding balance of $37.5 billion, or 93 percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $44.3 billion, or 92 percent, at December 31, 2018. HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10 years, and after the initial draw period ends, the loans generally convert to 15- or 20-year amortizing loans.
At December 31, 2019, our home equity loan portfolio had an outstanding balance of $1.2 billion, or three percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $1.8 billion, or four percent, at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2019, our reverse mortgage portfolio had an outstanding balance of $1.5 billion, or four percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $2.2 billion, also four percent, at December 31, 2018.

At December 31, 2019, 80 percent of the home equity portfolio was in Consumer Banking, 12 percent was in All Other and the remainder of the portfolio was primarily in GWIM. Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio decreased $8.1 billion in 2019 primarily due to paydowns and loan sales of $2.0 billion outpacing new originations and draws on existing lines. Of the total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018, $15.0 billion, or 37 percent, and $17.3 billion, or 36 percent, were in first-lien positions. At December 31, 2019, outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-lien position and where we also held the first-lien loan totaled $6.9 billion, or 17 percent of our total home equity portfolio.
Unused HELOCs totaled $43.6 billion and $43.1 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of lower utilization of open lines and new production partially offset by customers choosing to close accounts. The HELOC utilization rate was 46 percent and 51 percent at December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Table 25 presents certain home equity portfolio key credit statistics.

------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- - - --- - -- ---- ----------- ---- ----- - ------

Table 25 Home Equity – Key Credit Statistics (1)

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Outstandings $ 40,208 $ 48,286
Accruing past due 30 days or more (2) 218 363
Nonperforming loans (2) 536 1,893
Percent of portfolio
Refreshed CLTV greater than 90 but less than or equal to 100 1 % 2 %
Refreshed CLTV greater than 100 2 3
Refreshed FICO below 620 3 5
2006 and 2007 vintages (3) 18 22

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of the portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Accruing past due 30 days or more include $30 million and $48 million and nonperforming loans include $57 million and $218 million of loans where we serviced the underlying first lien at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) These vintages of loans accounted for 34 percent and 49 percent of nonperforming home equity loans at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Nonperforming outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio decreased $1.4 billion in 2019 as outflows, primarily sales, outpaced new inflows. Of the nonperforming home equity loans at December 31, 2019, $241 million, or 45 percent, were current on contractual payments. Nonperforming loans that are contractually current primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, junior-lien loans where the underlying first lien is 90 days or more past due, as well as loans that have not yet demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR. In addition, $162 million, or 30 percent, of nonperforming home equity loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the

collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that were 30 days or more past due decreased $145 million in 2019.
Net charge-offs decreased $356 million to a net recovery of $358 million in 2019 compared to a net recovery of $2 million in 2018 primarily driven by recoveries from the sales of previously charged off non-core home equity loans.
Of the $40.2 billion in total home equity portfolio outstandings at December 31, 2019, as shown in Table 25, 17 percent require interest-only payments. The outstanding balance of HELOCs that have reached the end of their draw period and have entered the amortization period was $11.5 billion at December 31, 2019. The HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and

------------------

57 Bank of America

nonperforming status when compared to the HELOC portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2019, $149 million, or one percent, of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more. In addition, at December 31, 2019, $472 million, or four percent, were nonperforming. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in our interest-only portfolio are primarily post-2008 vintages and generally have better credit quality than the previous vintages that had entered the amortization period. We communicate to contractually current customers more than a year prior to the end of their draw period to inform them of the potential change to the payment structure before entering the amortization period, and provide payment options to customers prior to the end of the draw period.
Although we do not actively track how many of our home equity customers pay only the minimum amount due on their home equity

loans and lines, we can infer some of this information through a review of our HELOC portfolio that we service and that is still in its revolving period. During 2019, 13 percent of these customers with an outstanding balance did not pay any principal on their HELOCs.
Table 26 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the home equity portfolio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both December 31, 2019 and 2018. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within California made up 11 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both December 31, 2019 and 2018.

-------------------------------- -------------------------------- ---------------- ---- ----------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ----- -- - ---- - - --- -

Table 26 Home Equity State Concentrations

 Outstandings (1) Nonperforming (1)
 December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
California $ 11,232 $ 13,515 $ 101 $ 536 $ (117 ) $ (54 )
Florida 4,327 5,418 71 315 (74 ) 1
New Jersey 3,216 3,871 56 150 (8 ) 25
New York 2,899 3,590 85 194 (1 ) 23
Massachusetts 2,023 2,400 29 65 (5 ) 5
Other 16,511 19,492 194 633 (153 ) (2 )
Total home equity loan portfolio $ 40,208 $ 48,286 $ 536 $ 1,893 $ (358 ) $ (2 )

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Credit Card
At December 31, 2019, 97 percent of the credit card portfolio was managed in Consumer Banking with the remainder in GWIM. Outstandings in the credit card portfolio decreased $730 million in 2019 to $97.6 billion. In 2019, net charge-offs increased $111 million to $2.9 billion compared to net charge-offs of $2.8 billion in 2018. Credit card loans 30 days or more past due and still

accruing interest increased $46 million and loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest increased $48 million. These increases were driven by portfolio seasoning.
Unused lines of credit for credit card increased to $336.9 billion at December 31, 2019 from $334.8 billion at December 31, 2018.
Table 27 presents certain state concentrations for the credit card portfolio.

--------------------------- -------------------------------- ------------ ---- -------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- --- ----- - ----- - -----

Table 27 Credit Card State Concentrations

 Outstandings Accruing Past Due90 Days or More
 December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
California $ 16,135 $ 16,062 $ 178 $ 163 $ 526 $ 479
Florida 9,075 8,840 135 119 363 332
Texas 7,815 7,730 93 84 241 224
New York 5,975 6,066 80 81 243 268
Washington 4,639 4,558 26 24 71 63
Other 53,969 55,082 530 523 1,504 1,471
Total credit card portfolio $ 97,608 $ 98,338 $ 1,042 $ 994 $ 2,948 $ 2,837

Direct/Indirect Consumer
At December 31, 2019, 56 percent of the direct/indirect portfolio was included in Consumer Banking (consumer auto and specialty lending – automotive, recreational vehicle, marine, aircraft and consumer personal loans) and 44 percent was included in GWIM (principally securities-based lending loans).

Outstandings of $91.0 billion in the direct/indirect portfolio were relatively unchanged at December 31, 2019.
Table 28 presents certain state concentrations for the direct/indirect consumer loan portfolio.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 58

------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ ------------ ---- --------------------------------- ---- ------ ---- ---- -- ---- -- -- -- - --- - ---

Table 28 Direct/Indirect State Concentrations

 Outstandings Accruing Past Due 90 Days or More
 December 31 Net Charge-offs
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
California $ 11,912 $ 11,734 $ 4 $ 4 $ 49 $ 21
Florida 10,154 10,240 4 4 27 36
Texas 9,516 9,876 5 6 29 30
New York 6,394 6,296 1 2 12 9
New Jersey 3,468 3,308 1 1 4 2
Other 49,554 49,712 18 21 88 97
Total direct/indirect loan portfolio $ 90,998 $ 91,166 $ 33 $ 38 $ 209 $ 195

Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity
Table 29 presents nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during 2019 and 2018. During 2019, nonperforming consumer loans decreased $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion primarily driven by loan sales of $1.5 billion.
At December 31, 2019, $606 million, or 29 percent, of nonperforming loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to their estimated property value less costs to sell. In addition, at December 31, 2019, $901 million, or 44

percent, of nonperforming consumer loans were modified and are now current after successful trial periods, or are current loans classified as nonperforming loans in accordance with applicable policies.
Foreclosed properties decreased $15 million in 2019 to $229 million as liquidations outpaced additions.
Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have been modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Nonperforming TDRs are included in Table 29.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ---- ------ - -----

Table 29 Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 3,842 $ 5,166
Additions 1,407 2,440
Reductions:
Paydowns and payoffs (701 ) (958 )
Sales (1,523 ) (969 )
Returns to performing status (1) (766 ) (1,283 )
Charge-offs (111 ) (401 )
Transfers to foreclosed properties (95 ) (151 )
Transfers to loans held-for-sale — (2 )
Total net reductions to nonperforming loans and leases (1,789 ) (1,324 )
Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 2,053 3,842
Foreclosed properties, December 31 (2) 229 244
Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 $ 2,282 $ 4,086
Nonperforming consumer loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans and leases (3) 0.44 % 0.86 %
Nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties (3) 0.49 0.92

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Foreclosed property balances do not include properties insured by certain government-guaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured, of $260 million and $488 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Outstanding consumer loans and leases exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Table 30 presents TDRs for the consumer real estate portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases in Table 29.

------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- ----- ----- ------------- ---------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ----- - -----

Table 30 Consumer Real Estate Troubled Debt Restructurings

 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
(Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total
Residential mortgage (1, 2) $ 921 $ 3,832 $ 4,753 $ 1,209 $ 4,988 $ 6,197
Home equity (3) 252 977 1,229 1,107 1,252 2,359
Total consumer real estate troubled debt restructurings $ 1,173 $ 4,809 $ 5,982 $ 2,316 $ 6,240 $ 8,556

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) At December 31, 2019 and 2018, residential mortgage TDRs deemed collateral dependent totaled $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion, and included $748 million and $960 million of loans classified as nonperforming and $468 million and $605 million of loans classified as performing.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) At December 31, 2019 and 2018, residential mortgage performing TDRs include $2.1 billion and $2.8 billion of loans that were fully-insured.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) At December 31, 2019 and 2018, home equity TDRs deemed collateral dependent totaled $442 million and $1.3 billion, and include $209 million and $961 million of loans classified as nonperforming and $233 million and $322 million of loans classified as performing.

In addition to modifying consumer real estate loans, we work with customers who are experiencing financial difficulty by modifying credit card and other consumer loans. Credit card and other consumer loan modifications generally involve a reduction

in the customer’s interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, all of which are considered TDRs (the renegotiated TDR portfolio).

------------------

59 Bank of America

Modifications of credit card and other consumer loans are made through renegotiation programs utilizing direct customer contact, but may also utilize external renegotiation programs. The renegotiated TDR portfolio is excluded in large part from Table 29 as substantially all of the loans remain on accrual status until either charged off or paid in full. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, our renegotiated TDR portfolio was $679 million and $566 million, of which $570 million and $481 million were current or less than 30 days past due under the modified terms. The increase in the renegotiated TDR portfolio was primarily driven by new renegotiated enrollments outpacing runoff of existing portfolios.

Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management
Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As part of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if necessary, adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition, cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty. In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, industry and single-name concentration limits while also balancing these considerations with the total borrower or counterparty relationship. We use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In addition, risk ratings are a factor in determining the level of allocated capital and the allowance for credit losses.
As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives, we attempt to work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify their loans to terms that better align with their current ability to pay. In situations where an economic concession has been granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty, we identify these loans as TDRs. For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status and net charge-offs for the commercial portfolio, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Management of Commercial Credit Risk Concentrations
Commercial credit risk is evaluated and managed with the goal that concentrations of credit exposure continue to be aligned with our risk appetite. We review, measure and manage concentrations of credit exposure by industry, product, geography, customer relationship and loan size. We also review, measure and manage commercial real estate loans by geographic location and property type. In addition, within our non-U.S. portfolio, we evaluate exposures by region and by country. Tables 35, 38 and 41 summarize our concentrations. We also utilize syndications of

exposure to third parties, loan sales, hedging and other risk mitigation techniques to manage the size and risk profile of the commercial credit portfolio. For more information on our industry concentrations, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Industry Concentrations on page 64 and Table 38.
We account for certain large corporate loans and loan commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit which are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes, that exceed our single-name credit risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored, and as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with our credit view and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. In addition, we purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain other credit exposures. To lessen the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for treatment as accounting hedges. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income.
In addition, we are a member of various securities and derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other countries. As a member, we may be required to pay a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations as a result of another member default and under other loss scenarios. For more information, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Commercial Credit Portfolio
During 2019, credit quality among large corporate and middle-market borrowers in our commercial and industrial portfolio remained strong. Credit quality of commercial real estate borrowers in most sectors remained stable with conservative LTV ratios. However, some of the real estate markets experienced slowing tenant demand and decelerating rental income.
Total commercial utilized credit exposure increased $14.3 billion in 2019 to $635.3 billion driven by higher loans and leases. The utilization rate for loans and leases, SBLCs and financial guarantees, and commercial letters of credit, in the aggregate, was 58 percent at December 31, 2019 and 59 percent at December 31, 2018.
Table 31 presents commercial credit exposure by type for utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure. Commercial utilized credit exposure includes SBLCs and financial guarantees and commercial letters of credit that have been issued and for which we are legally bound to advance funds under prescribed conditions during a specified time period, and excludes exposure related to trading account assets. Although funds have not yet been advanced, these exposure types are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 60

-------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----------------------- ---- ----------------------------- ---- -------------------------- ------ ---- ------- ---- ------ ------- ------ - --------- - ---------

Table 31 Commercial Credit Exposure by Type

 Commercial Utilized (1) Commercial Unfunded (2, 3, 4) Total Commercial Committed
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Loans and leases $ 517,657 $ 499,664 $ 405,834 $ 369,282 $ 923,491 $ 868,946
Derivative assets (5) 40,485 43,725 — — 40,485 43,725
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees 36,062 34,941 468 491 36,530 35,432
Debt securities and other investments 25,546 25,425 5,101 4,250 30,647 29,675
Loans held-for-sale 7,047 9,090 15,135 14,812 22,182 23,902
Operating leases 6,660 6,060 — — 6,660 6,060
Commercial letters of credit 1,049 1,210 451 168 1,500 1,378
Other 800 898 — — 800 898
Total $ 635,306 $ 621,013 $ 426,989 $ 389,003 $ 1,062,295 $ 1,010,016

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Commercial utilized exposure includes loans of $7.7 billion and $3.7 billion and issued letters of credit with a notional amount of $170 million and $100 million accounted for under the fair value option at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Commercial unfunded exposure includes commitments accounted for under the fair value option with a notional amount of $4.2 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Excludes unused business card lines, which are not legally binding.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commitments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts were $10.6 billion and $10.7 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) Derivative assets are carried at fair value, reflect the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by cash collateral of $33.9 billion and $32.4 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Not reflected in utilized and committed exposure is additional non-cash derivative collateral held of $35.2 billion and $33.0 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, which consists primarily of other marketable securities.

Outstanding commercial loans and leases increased $18.0 billion during 2019 primarily in the commercial and industrial portfolio. Nonperforming commercial loans increased $397 million and commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure increased $391 million driven by a small number of client downgrades across industries which were not indicative of broader issues in the

portfolio. The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio increased $75 million to $4.9 billion at December 31, 2019. For more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68. Table 32 presents our commercial loans and leases portfolio and related credit quality information at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ------------ ---- ------------- ---- -------------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- --- ----- --- - --- - ---

Table 32 Commercial Credit Quality

 Outstandings Nonperforming Accruing Past Due90 Days or More
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 307,048 $ 299,277 $ 1,094 $ 794 $ 106 $ 197
Non-U.S. commercial 104,966 98,776 43 80 8 —
Total commercial and industrial 412,014 398,053 1,137 874 114 197
Commercial real estate 62,689 60,845 280 156 19 4
Commercial lease financing 19,880 22,534 32 18 20 29
 494,583 481,432 1,449 1,048 153 230
U.S. small business commercial (1) 15,333 14,565 50 54 97 84
Commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 509,916 495,997 1,499 1,102 250 314
Loans accounted for under the fair value option (2) 7,741 3,667 — — — —
Total commercial loans and leases $ 517,657 $ 499,664 $ 1,499 $ 1,102 $ 250 $ 314

--- -------------------------------
(1) Includes card-related products.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial of $4.7 billion and $2.5 billion and non-U.S. commercial of $3.1 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. For more information on the fair value option, see Note 22 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table 33 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for 2019 and 2018.

------------------------------- --------------------------------------------- --------------- ---- ------------------------- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- -

Table 33 Commercial Net Charge-offs and Related Ratios

 Net Charge-offs Net Charge-off Ratios (1)
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 256 $ 215 0.08 % 0.07 %
Non-U.S. commercial 84 68 0.08 0.07
Total commercial and industrial 340 283 0.08 0.07
Commercial real estate 29 1 0.05 —
Commercial lease financing 21 (1 ) 0.10 (0.01 )
 390 283 0.08 0.06
U.S. small business commercial 272 240 1.83 1.70
Total commercial $ 662 $ 523 0.13 0.11

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

------------------

61 Bank of America

Table 34 presents commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure by loan type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, 90 percent and 91 percent of commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure was secured.

------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ---- ---- ---- - ----- ------ ------ ---- ---- ---- -

Table 34 Commercial Reservable Criticized Utilized Exposure (1, 2)

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 8,272 2.46 % $ 7,986 2.43 %
Non-U.S. commercial 989 0.89 1,013 0.97
Total commercial and industrial 9,261 2.07 8,999 2.08
Commercial real estate 1,129 1.75 936 1.50
Commercial lease financing 329 1.66 366 1.62
 10,719 2.01 10,301 1.99
U.S. small business commercial 733 4.78 760 5.22
Total commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure (1) $ 11,452 2.09 $ 11,061 2.08

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Total commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure includes loans and leases of $10.7 billion and $10.3 billion and commercial letters of credit of $715 million and $781 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Percentages are calculated as commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure divided by total commercial reservable utilized exposure for each exposure category.

Commercial and Industrial
Commercial and industrial loans include U.S. commercial and non-U.S. commercial portfolios.
U.S. Commercial
At December 31, 2019, 70 percent of the U.S. commercial loan portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in Global Banking, 16 percent in Global Markets, 13 percent in GWIM (generally business-purpose loans for high net worth clients) and the remainder primarily in Consumer Banking. U.S. commercial loans increased $7.8 billion during 2019, across lines of business.
Non-U.S. Commercial
At December 31, 2019, 83 percent of the non-U.S. commercial loan portfolio was managed in Global Banking and 17 percent in Global Markets. Non-U.S. commercial loans increased $6.2 billion during 2019, primarily in Global Banking. For information on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, see Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 66.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans secured by non-owner-occupied real estate and is dependent on the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary source of

repayment. Outstanding loans increased $1.8 billion, or three percent, during 2019 to $62.7 billion due to new originations slightly outpacing paydowns. The portfolio remains diversified across property types and geographic regions. California represented the largest state concentration at 24 percent and 23 percent of the commercial real estate portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly managed in Global Banking and consists of loans made primarily to public and private developers, and commercial real estate firms.
During 2019, we continued to see low default rates and solid credit quality in both the residential and non-residential portfolios. We use a number of proactive risk mitigation initiatives to reduce adversely rated exposure in the commercial real estate portfolio, including transfers of deteriorating exposures to management by independent special asset officers and the pursuit of loan restructurings or asset sales to achieve the best results for our customers and the Corporation.
Table 35 presents outstanding commercial real estate loans by geographic region, based on the geographic location of the collateral, and by property type.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 62

---------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------- ---- ------ - ------

Table 35 Outstanding Commercial Real Estate Loans

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
By Geographic Region
California $ 14,910 $ 14,002
Northeast 12,408 10,895
Southwest 8,408 7,339
Southeast 5,937 5,726
Florida 3,984 3,680
Illinois 3,349 2,989
Midwest 3,203 3,772
Midsouth 2,468 2,919
Northwest 1,638 2,178
Non-U.S. 3,724 4,240
Other (1) 2,660 3,105
Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 62,689 $ 60,845
By Property Type
Non-residential
Office $ 17,902 $ 17,246
Industrial / Warehouse 8,677 5,379
Shopping centers / Retail 8,183 8,798
Multi-family rental 7,250 7,762
Hotels / Motels 6,982 7,248
Unsecured 3,438 2,956
Multi-use 1,788 2,848
Other 6,958 7,029
Total non-residential 61,178 59,266
Residential 1,511 1,579
Total outstanding commercial real estate loans $ 62,689 $ 60,845

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes unsecured loans to real estate investment trusts and national home builders whose portfolios of properties span multiple geographic regions and properties in the states of Colorado, Utah, Hawaii, Wyoming and Montana.

U.S. Small Business Commercial
The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised of small business card loans and small business loans managed in Consumer Banking. Credit card-related products were 52 percent and 51 percent of the U.S. small business commercial portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Of the U.S. small business commercial net charge-offs, 94 percent and 95 percent were credit card-related products in 2019 and 2018.
Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity
Table 36 presents the nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during 2019 and 2018.

Nonperforming loans do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. During 2019, nonperforming commercial loans and leases increased $397 million to $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2019, 94 percent of commercial nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties were secured and 64 percent were contractually current. Commercial nonperforming loans were carried at 88 percent of their unpaid principal balance before consideration of the allowance for loan and lease losses as the carrying value of these loans has been reduced to the estimated collateral value less costs to sell.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----

Table 36 Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity (1, 2)

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Nonperforming loans and leases, January 1 $ 1,102 $ 1,304
Additions 2,048 1,415
Reductions:
Paydowns (648 ) (771 )
Sales (215 ) (210 )
Returns to performing status (3) (120 ) (246 )
Charge-offs (478 ) (361 )
Transfers to foreclosed properties (9 ) (12 )
Transfers to loans held-for-sale (181 ) (17 )
Total net reductions to nonperforming loans and leases 397 (202 )
Total nonperforming loans and leases, December 31 1,499 1,102
Foreclosed properties, December 31 56 56
Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties, December 31 $ 1,555 $ 1,158
Nonperforming commercial loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans and leases (4) 0.29 % 0.22 %
Nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties (4) 0.30 0.23

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Balances do not include nonperforming loans held-for-sale of $239 million and $292 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes U.S. small business commercial activity. Small business card loans are excluded as they are not classified as nonperforming.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Outstanding commercial loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

------------------

63 Bank of America

Table 37 presents our commercial TDRs by product type and performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and small business loans. The renegotiated small business card loans are not classified as nonperforming as they are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. For more information on TDRs, see Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

--------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ----------------- ----- ----- ------------- ---------- ----- ----- ----- --- ----- - ----- - -----

Table 37 Commercial Troubled Debt Restructurings

 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
(Dollars in millions) Nonperforming Performing Total Nonperforming Performing Total
Commercial and industrial:
U.S. commercial $ 617 $ 999 $ 1,616 $ 306 $ 1,092 $ 1,398
Non-U.S. commercial 41 193 234 78 162 240
Total commercial and industrial 658 1,192 1,850 384 1,254 1,638
Commercial real estate 212 14 226 114 6 120
Commercial lease financing 18 31 49 3 68 71
 888 1,237 2,125 501 1,328 1,829
U.S. small business commercial — 27 27 3 18 21
Total commercial troubled debt restructurings $ 888 $ 1,264 $ 2,152 $ 504 $ 1,346 $ 1,850

Industry Concentrations
Table 38 presents commercial committed and utilized credit exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified across a broad range of industries. Total commercial committed exposure increased $52.3 billion, or five percent, during 2019 to $1.1 trillion. The increase in commercial committed exposure was concentrated in the Real estate, Utilities and Finance companies industry sectors. Increases were partially offset by decreased exposure to the Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, Technology hardware and equipment, and Government and public education industry sectors.
Industry limits are used internally to manage industry concentrations and are based on committed exposure that is allocated on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well

as to provide ongoing monitoring. The MRC oversees industry limit governance.
Asset managers and funds, our largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $110.0 billion, increased $2.1 billion, or two percent, during 2019.
Real estate, our second largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $96.3 billion, increased $9.8 billion, or 11 percent, during 2019. This growth occurred primarily in the category of industrial and warehouse buildings, partially offset by declines in REITs.
Capital goods, our third largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $80.9 billion, increased $5.8 billion, or eight percent, during 2019 with the growth largely occurring in the trading companies and distributors industry categories, partially offset by a decrease in industrial conglomerates. For more information on the commercial real estate and related portfolios, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Commercial Real Estate on page 62.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 64

---------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------- ---- ------------------------------ ---- ------- ------ ------ - --------- - ------ - ---------

Table 38 Commercial Credit Exposure by Industry (1)

 Commercial Utilized Total Commercial Committed (2)
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018
Asset managers and funds $ 71,289 $ 71,756 $ 109,972 $ 107,888
Real estate (3) 70,341 65,328 96,349 86,514
Capital goods 41,060 39,192 80,871 75,080
Finance companies 40,171 36,662 63,940 56,659
Healthcare equipment and services 34,353 35,763 55,918 56,489
Government and public education 41,889 43,675 53,566 54,749
Materials 26,663 27,347 52,128 51,865
Consumer services 28,434 25,702 49,071 43,298
Retailing 25,868 25,333 48,317 47,507
Food, beverage and tobacco 24,163 23,586 45,956 42,745
Commercial services and supplies 23,102 22,623 38,943 39,349
Energy 16,407 13,727 36,327 32,279
Utilities 12,383 12,035 36,060 27,623
Transportation 23,448 22,814 33,027 31,523
Global commercial banks 26,492 26,583 28,670 28,627
Individuals and trusts 18,926 18,643 27,815 25,019
Technology hardware and equipment 10,645 13,014 24,071 26,228
Media 12,429 12,132 23,629 24,502
Vehicle dealers 18,013 17,603 21,435 20,446
Consumer durables and apparel 10,193 9,904 21,245 20,199
Software and services 10,432 8,809 20,556 19,172
Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology 5,962 7,430 20,203 23,634
Telecommunication services 9,144 8,686 16,103 14,166
Insurance 6,669 8,674 15,214 15,807
Automobiles and components 7,345 7,131 14,910 13,893
Financial markets infrastructure (clearinghouses) 9,351 8,317 11,851 10,042
Food and staples retailing 6,290 4,787 10,392 9,093
Religious and social organizations 3,844 3,757 5,756 5,620
Total commercial credit exposure by industry $ 635,306 $ 621,013 $ 1,062,295 $ 1,010,016
Net credit default protection purchased on total commitments (4) $ (3,349 ) $ (2,663 )

--- -------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commitments net of amounts distributed (i.e., syndicated or participated) to other financial institutions. The distributed amounts were $10.6 billion and $10.7 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the primary business activity of the borrowers or counterparties using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Represents net notional credit protection purchased to hedge funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures. For more information, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Risk Mitigation.

Risk Mitigation
We purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain credit exposures. To lower the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, we may add credit exposure within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection.
At December 31, 2019 and 2018, net notional credit default protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge our funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was $3.3 billion and $2.7 billion. We recorded net losses of $145 million in 2019 compared to net losses of $2 million in 2018 on these positions. The gains and losses on these instruments were offset by gains and losses on the related exposures. The Value-at-Risk
(VaR) results for these exposures are included in the fair value

option portfolio information in Table 45. For more information, see Trading Risk Management on page 72.
Tables 39 and 40 present the maturity profiles and the credit exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

---------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- ----------- ---- -

Table 39 Net Credit Default Protection by Maturity

 December 31
 2019 2018
Less than or equal to one year 54 % 20 %
Greater than one year and less than or equal to five years 45 78
Greater than five years 1 2
Total net credit default protection 100 % 100 %

------------------

65 Bank of America

----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ --------------- ---- --------------- ----- --------------- ---- --------------- ------ ---- ----- -

Table 40 Net Credit Default Protection by Credit Exposure Debt Rating

 NetNotional (1) Percent ofTotal NetNotional (1) Percent ofTotal
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Ratings (2, 3)
A $ (697 ) 20.8 % $ (700 ) 26.3 %
BBB (1,089 ) 32.5 (501 ) 18.8
BB (766 ) 22.9 (804 ) 30.2
B (373 ) 11.1 (422 ) 15.8
CCC and below (119 ) 3.6 (205 ) 7.7
NR (4) (305 ) 9.1 (31 ) 1.2
Total net credit default protection $ (3,349 ) 100.0 % $ (2,663 ) 100.0 %

--- ---------------------------------------------------
(1) Represents net credit default protection purchased.

--- -------------------------------------------
(2) Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Ratings of BBB- or higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) NR is comprised of index positions held and any names that have not been rated.

In addition to our net notional credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit from directional or relative value changes. We execute the majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with large, multinational financial institutions, including broker-dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors. Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we are subject to settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in the event that these counterparties fail to perform under the terms of these contracts. In order to properly reflect counterparty credit risk, we record counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments on certain derivative assets, including our purchased credit default protection.
In most cases, credit derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required by the counterparty, where applicable, and/or

allow us to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. For more information on credit derivatives and counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Non-U.S. Portfolio
Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies. A risk management framework is in place to measure, monitor and manage non-U.S. risk and exposures. In addition to the direct risk of doing business in a country, we also are exposed to indirect country risks (e.g., related to the collateral received on secured financing transactions or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through credit, market and operational risk governance, rather than through country risk governance.
Table 41 presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures at December 31, 2019. These exposures accounted for 88 percent and 89 percent of our total non-U.S. exposure at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Net country exposure for these 20 countries increased $8.5 billion in 2019, primarily driven by increased sovereign and corporate exposure across multiple countries.
Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or domiciled in countries other than the U.S.
Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases, and other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of credit and due from placements. Unfunded commitments are the undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans and loan equivalents. Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of derivatives, including the counterparty risk associated with credit default swaps (CDS), and secured financing transactions. Securities and other investments are carried at fair value and long securities exposures are netted against short exposures with the same underlying issuer to, but not below, zero. Net country exposure represents country exposure less hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 66

---------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------- ------------------------- ----- ------------------------- ------ --------------------------- ------------------------------------ ------ ------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- ------ ----------------------------------------- ------ - ------- ------ - ------- - - ------- - -----

Table 41 Top 20 Non-U.S. Countries Exposure

(Dollars in millions) Funded Loans and Loan Equivalents Unfunded Loan Commitments Net Counterparty Exposure Securities/OtherInvestments Country Exposure at December 31 2019 Hedges and Credit Default Protection Net Country Exposure at December 31 2019 Increase (Decrease) from December 31 2018
United Kingdom $ 29,156 $ 17,341 $ 7,800 $ 3,545 $ 57,842 $ (1,998 ) $ 55,844 $ 990
Germany 21,920 7,408 1,828 1,967 33,123 (2,295 ) 30,828 2,171
Canada 7,967 8,255 1,690 2,879 20,791 (669 ) 20,122 607
France 7,243 9,208 876 969 18,296 (2,041 ) 16,255 3,604
China 13,304 497 1,085 949 15,835 (248 ) 15,587 946
India 7,817 364 398 3,660 12,239 (222 ) 12,017 905
Brazil 7,393 716 218 3,683 12,010 (238 ) 11,772 1,523
Australia 6,100 3,583 415 1,443 11,541 (439 ) 11,102 1,172
Japan 8,450 896 1,002 1,589 11,937 (1,405 ) 10,532 (9,491 )
Netherlands 6,322 3,585 330 876 11,113 (786 ) 10,327 (1,250 )
South Korea 5,981 758 386 1,762 8,887 (182 ) 8,705 (465 )
Singapore 3,749 435 172 3,528 7,884 (58 ) 7,826 2,309
Mexico 4,190 1,733 224 1,814 7,961 (150 ) 7,811 1,575
Switzerland 4,387 2,947 213 325 7,872 (487 ) 7,385 (379 )
Hong Kong 5,106 353 434 1,194 7,087 (31 ) 7,056 (180 )
Belgium 5,077 1,259 526 159 7,021 (514 ) 6,507 929
Italy 2,353 2,303 510 1,386 6,552 (1,175 ) 5,377 2,296
Spain 3,153 1,073 258 867 5,351 (629 ) 4,722 72
United Arab Emirates 3,267 229 119 10 3,625 (38 ) 3,587 (62 )
Ireland 2,142 979 76 201 3,398 (31 ) 3,367 1,206
Total top 20 non-U.S. countries exposure $ 155,077 $ 63,922 $ 18,560 $ 32,806 $ 270,365 $ (13,636 ) $ 256,729 $ 8,478

A number of economic conditions and geopolitical events have given rise to risk aversion in certain emerging markets. Additionally, in light of ongoing trade tensions, we continue to closely monitor our exposures to tariff-sensitive regions and industries, particularly to countries that account for a large percentage of U.S. trade, such as China.
Our largest emerging market country exposure at December 31, 2019 was China, with net exposure of $15.6 billion, concentrated in large state-owned companies, subsidiaries of multinational corporations and commercial banks.
The economic performance in the EU remains uncertain, including as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the terms of a potential trade agreement and other terms associated with the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU, which could weigh unevenly on the economic performance of EU countries generally, and even more heavily on that of the U.K. For more information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Geopolitical on page 10 and Executive Summary – Recent Developments – U.K. Exit from the EU on page 23. Our largest EU country exposure at December 31, 2019 was

the U.K. with net exposure of $55.8 billion, which represents a $990 million increase from December 31, 2018. Our second largest EU exposure was Germany with net exposure of $30.8 billion as of December 31, 2019, which represents a $2.2 billion increase from December 31, 2018. The increase in Germany was primarily driven by an increase in sovereign exposure.
Table 42 presents countries that had total cross-border exposure, including the notional amount of cash loaned under secured financing agreements, exceeding one percent of our total assets at December 31, 2019. Local exposure, defined as exposure booked in local offices of a respective country with clients in the same country, is excluded. At December 31, 2019, the U.K. and France were the only countries where their respective total cross-border exposures exceeded one percent of our total assets. At December 31, 2019, Germany had total cross-border exposure of $19.4 billion representing 0.80 percent of our total assets. No other countries had total cross-border exposure that exceeded 0.75 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2019.

--------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ------------- ----- ----- ----- -------------- ----- -------------------- ------ ----------------------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- -

Table 42 Total Cross-border Exposure Exceeding One Percent of Total Assets

(Dollars in millions) December 31 Public Sector Banks Private Sector Cross-borderExposure Exposure as aPercent ofTotal Assets
United Kingdom 2019 $ 1,859 $ 3,580 $ 93,232 $ 98,671 4.05 %
 2018 1,505 3,458 46,191 51,154 2.17
 2017 923 2,984 47,205 51,112 2.24
France 2019 736 2,473 23,172 26,381 1.08
 2018 633 2,385 29,847 32,865 1.40
 2017 2,964 1,521 27,903 32,388 1.42

------------------

67 Bank of America

Provision for Credit Losses
The provision for credit losses increased $308 million to $3.6 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The provision for credit losses was $58 million lower than net charge-offs for 2019, resulting in a decrease in the allowance for credit losses. This compared to a decrease of $481 million in the allowance for credit losses in 2018. Net charge-offs in 2019 were $3.6 billion compared to $3.8 billion in 2018.
The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio decreased $117 million to $2.8 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by consumer real estate loan sales.
The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio, including unfunded lending commitments, increased $425 million to $758 million in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was due in part to energy reserve releases in the prior-year periods.
Assuming a stable economic environment in 2020 compared to the end of 2019, we expect net charge-offs of approximately $1 billion per quarter in 2020. In view of the newly adopted accounting standard on the measurement of the allowance for credit losses, we expect the provision for credit losses to be modestly higher than net charge-offs in 2020, assuming no change in the current economic outlook and estimates of loan growth, including product mix. For more information regarding the new accounting standard, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Allowance for Credit Losses
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
The allowance for loan and lease losses is comprised of two components. The first component covers nonperforming commercial loans and TDRs. The second component covers loans and leases on which there are incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable, as well as incurred losses that may not be represented in the loss forecast models. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the total of these two components, each of which is described in more detail below. The allowance for loan and lease losses excludes loans held-for-sale (LHFS) and loans accounted for under the fair value option as the fair value reflects a credit risk component.
The first component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers both nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs within the consumer and commercial portfolios. These loans are subject to impairment measurement based on the present value of projected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate, or in certain circumstances, impairment may also be based upon the collateral value or the loan’s observable market price if available. Impairment measurement for the renegotiated consumer credit card and small business credit card TDR portfolios is based on the present value of projected cash flows discounted using the average portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. For purposes of computing this specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical experience for the respective product types and risk ratings of the loans.
The second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and leases that have incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable. The allowance for consumer (including credit card and other consumer loans) and certain homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on aggregated portfolio evaluations, which include both quantitative and qualitative components,

generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, economic trends, credit scores and the amount of loss in the event of default. Our consumer real estate loss forecast model estimates the portion of loans that will default based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which are refreshed LTV or combined loan-to-value (CLTV), and borrower credit score as well as vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the current economic environment. As of December 31, 2019, the loss forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance related to the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios compared to December 31, 2018.
The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience, internal risk rating, current economic conditions, industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent information. The statistical models for commercial loans are generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of actual defaults and other data, including external default data. The loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios used to calculate the allowance are updated quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the probability of default and the loss given default (LGD) based on our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which the obligor operates, the obligor’s liquidity and other financial indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant to the obligor’s credit risk. As of December 31, 2019, the allowance for the commercial real estate portfolio increased compared to December 31, 2018.
Also included within the second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast models. For example, factors that we consider include, among others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size of the portfolio, changes in portfolio concentrations, changes in the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in mathematical models that are built upon historical data.
We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those portfolios.
The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer portfolio, as presented in Table 43, was $4.5 billion at December 31, 2019, a decrease of $260 million from December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily in the consumer real estate portfolio, partially offset by an increase in the credit card portfolio. The

 ------------------

 Bank of America 68

reduction in the allowance for the consumer real estate portfolio was driven by improved credit quality, a decrease in loan balances in our non-core portfolio, proactive credit risk management initiatives and high credit quality originations. The improved credit quality was impacted by continuing improvements in the U.S. economy and strong labor markets evidenced by low levels of unemployment and increases in home prices. Nonperforming consumer loans decreased $1.8 billion during 2019 as loan sales, returns to performing status and paydowns continued to outpace additions. The increase in allowance for the credit card portfolio was primarily driven by continued portfolio seasoning.
The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio, as presented in Table 43, was $4.9 billion at December 31, 2019, an increase of $75 million from December 31, 2018. Commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure increased to $11.5 billion at December 31, 2019 from $11.1 billion (to 2.09 percent from 2.08 percent of total commercial reservable utilized exposure) at December 31, 2018, and nonperforming commercial loans increased to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2019 from $1.1 billion (to 0.29 percent from 0.22 percent of outstanding commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option) at December 31, 2018 with the increases spread across multiple industries. See Tables 32, 33 and 34 for more details on key commercial credit statistics.
The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was 0.97 percent at December 31, 2019 compared to 1.02 percent at December 31, 2018.
On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the

Corporation’s relevant financial assets. Upon adoption of the standard on January 1, 2020, the Corporation recorded a $3.3 billion, or 32 percent, increase to the allowance for credit losses. After adjusting for deferred taxes and other adoption effects, a $2.4 billion decrease was recorded in retained earnings through a cumulative-effect adjustment. For more information regarding this new accounting standard, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments
In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, unfunded bankers’ acceptances and binding loan commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses of our historical experience are applied to the unfunded commitments to estimate the funded exposure at default (EAD). The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and inherent imprecision in models.
The reserve for unfunded lending commitments was $813 million at December 31, 2019 compared to $797 million at December 31, 2018.

---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ----------------- ------ ---------------------------------------- - ------ ---- --------------- ------ ---------------------------------------- --- ------ - ---- ---- ---- -

Table 43 Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type

 Amount Percent ofTotal Percent ofLoans andLeasesOutstanding (1) Amount Percent ofTotal Percent ofLoans andLeasesOutstanding (1)
(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018
Allowance for loan and lease losses
Residential mortgage $ 325 3.45 % 0.14 % $ 422 4.40 % 0.20 %
Home equity 221 2.35 0.55 506 5.27 1.05
Credit card 3,710 39.39 3.80 3,597 37.47 3.66
Direct/Indirect consumer 234 2.49 0.26 248 2.58 0.27
Other consumer 52 0.55 n/m 29 0.30 n/m
Total consumer 4,542 48.23 0.98 4,802 50.02 1.08
U.S. commercial (2) 3,015 32.02 0.94 3,010 31.35 0.96
Non-U.S. commercial 658 6.99 0.63 677 7.05 0.69
Commercial real estate 1,042 11.07 1.66 958 9.98 1.57
Commercial lease financing 159 1.69 0.80 154 1.60 0.68
Total commercial 4,874 51.77 0.96 4,799 49.98 0.97
Allowance for loan and lease losses 9,416 100.00 % 0.97 9,601 100.00 % 1.02
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments 813 797
Allowance for credit losses $ 10,229 $ 10,398

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Ratios are calculated as allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $257 million and $336 million and home equity loans of $337 million and $346 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial loans of $4.7 billion and $2.5 billion and non-U.S. commercial loans of $3.1 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes allowance for loan and lease losses for U.S. small business commercial loans of $523 million and $474 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

n/m = not meaningful

------------------

69 Bank of America

Table 44 presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, for 2019 and 2018.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------- ------- ---- ------ - -------

Table 44 Allowance for Credit Losses

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 9,601 $ 10,393
Loans and leases charged off
Residential mortgage (93 ) (207 )
Home equity (429 ) (483 )
Credit card (3,535 ) (3,345 )
Direct/Indirect consumer (518 ) (495 )
Other consumer (249 ) (197 )
Total consumer charge-offs (4,824 ) (4,727 )
U.S. commercial (1) (650 ) (575 )
Non-U.S. commercial (115 ) (82 )
Commercial real estate (31 ) (10 )
Commercial lease financing (26 ) (8 )
Total commercial charge-offs (822 ) (675 )
Total loans and leases charged off (5,646 ) (5,402 )
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off
Residential mortgage 140 179
Home equity 787 485
Credit card 587 508
Direct/Indirect consumer 309 300
Other consumer 15 15
Total consumer recoveries 1,838 1,487
U.S. commercial (2) 122 120
Non-U.S. commercial 31 14
Commercial real estate 2 9
Commercial lease financing 5 9
Total commercial recoveries 160 152
Total recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 1,998 1,639
Net charge-offs (3,648 ) (3,763 )
Provision for loan and lease losses 3,574 3,262
Other (3) (111 ) (291 )
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 9,416 9,601
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 797 777
Provision for unfunded lending commitments 16 20
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 813 797
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 10,229 $ 10,398

Loan and allowance ratios:
Loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (4) $ 975,091 $ 942,546
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (4) 0.97 % 1.02 %
Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (5) 0.98 1.08
Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total commercial loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (6) 0.96 0.97
Average loans and leases outstanding (4) $ 951,583 $ 927,531
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (4) 0.38 % 0.41 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 265 194
Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs 2.58 2.55
Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7) $ 4,151 $ 4,031
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (7) 148 % 113 %

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes U.S. small business commercial charge-offs of $320 million and $287 million in 2019 and 2018.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes U.S. small business commercial recoveries of $48 million and $47 million in 2019 and 2018.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Primarily represents write-offs of purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, the net impact of portfolio sales, and transfers to loans held-for-sale.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option of $8.3 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Average loans accounted for under the fair value option were $6.8 billion and $5.5 billion in 2019 and 2018.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) Excludes consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option of $594 million and $682 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6) Excludes commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option of $7.7 billion and $3.7 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(7) Primarily includes amounts allocated to credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 70

Market Risk Management
Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our Global Markets segment. We are also exposed to these risks in other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact on our results. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.
Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-trading positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option.
Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments. The key risk management techniques are discussed in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section.
Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which we are exposed. These responsibilities include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of Global Markets are monitored and governed by their respective governance functions.
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. Given that models are used across the Corporation, model risk impacts all risk types including credit, market and operational risk. The Enterprise Model Risk Committee (EMRC), a subcommittee of the MRC, is responsible for providing management oversight and approval of model risk management and governance. The EMRC defines model risk standards, consistent with the Corporation’s Risk Framework and risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best practice. All models, including risk management, valuation and regulatory capital models, must meet certain validation criteria, including effective challenge of the conceptual soundness of the model, independent model testing and ongoing monitoring through outcomes analysis and benchmarking. The EMRC oversees that model standards are consistent with model risk requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model validation process across the Corporation.
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities,

certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or non-U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits.
Mortgage Risk
Mortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the values of mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes several forms. For example, we trade and engage in market-making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations including collateralized debt obligations using mortgages as underlying collateral. In addition, we originate a variety of MBS, which involves the accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization, and we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. We also record MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and forwards as well as securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. For more information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management on page 76.
Equity Market Risk
Equity market risk represents exposures to securities that represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions.
Commodity Risk
Commodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity product, as well as cash positions.
Issuer Credit Risk
Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments

------------------

71 Bank of America

used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit fixed-income instruments.
Market Liquidity Risk
Market liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner which may impact our results. This impact could be further exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management.

Trading Risk Management
To evaluate risks in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include sensitivities of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual and hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing. Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally, risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios under the current market environment and potential future environments.
VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified holding period, confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios and it uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level, which means that for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days.
Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous assumptions that will differ from company to company. The accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new products that do not have the necessary historical market data or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not consistently available. For positions with insufficient historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the expected volatility and correlation to other market risk factors that the missing data would be expected to experience.
VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as changes in market conditions or in the composition of the portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular, the historical data used for the VaR calculation might indicate higher or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be experienced.

In order for the VaR model to reflect current market conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR model on a weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of market stress, and regularly review the assumptions underlying the model. A minor portion of risks related to our trading positions is not included in VaR. These risks are reviewed as part of our ICAAP. For more information regarding ICAAP, see Capital Management on page 45.
Global Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed and approved prior to implementation and any material changes are reported to management through the appropriate management committees.
Trading limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR, are independently set by Global Markets Risk Management and reviewed on a regular basis so that trading limits remain relevant and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Trading limits are reviewed in the context of market liquidity, volatility and strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a granular level to allow for extensive coverage of risks as well as at aggregated portfolios to account for correlations among risk factors. All trading limits are approved at least annually. Approved trading limits are stored and tracked in a centralized limits management system. Trading limit excesses are communicated to management for review. Certain quantitative market risk measures and corresponding limits have been identified as critical in the Corporation’s Risk Appetite Statement. These risk appetite limits are reported on a daily basis and are approved at least annually by the ERC and the Board.
In periods of market stress, Global Markets senior leadership communicates daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may selectively reduce risk.
Table 45 presents the total market-based portfolio VaR which is the combination of the total covered positions (and less liquid trading positions) portfolio and the fair value option portfolio. Covered positions are defined by regulatory standards as trading assets and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that meet a defined set of specifications. These specifications identify the most liquid trading positions which are intended to be held for a short-term horizon and where we are able to hedge the material risk elements in a two-way market. Positions in less liquid markets, or where there are restrictions on the ability to trade the positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, except for structural foreign currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory approval. In addition, Table 45 presents our fair value option portfolio, which includes substantially all of the funded and unfunded exposures for which we elect the fair value option, and their corresponding hedges. Additionally, market risk VaR for trading activities as presented in Table 45 differs from VaR used for regulatory capital calculations due to the holding period being used. The holding period for VaR used for regulatory capital calculations is 10 days, while for the market risk VaR presented below, it is one day. Both measures utilize the same process and methodology.
The total market-based portfolio VaR results in Table 45 include market risk to which we are exposed from all business segments, excluding credit valuation adjustment (CVA), DVA and related hedges. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global Markets segment.
Table 45 presents year-end, average, high and low daily trading VaR for 2019 and 2018 using a 99 percent confidence level. The amounts disclosed in Table 45 and Table 46 align to the view of covered positions used in the Basel 3 capital calculations. Foreign

 ------------------

 Bank of America 72

exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, regardless of trading or banking treatment for the trade, except for structural foreign currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory approval.

The annual average of total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR slightly increased during 2019 with no significant drivers.

------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- -- ------- --- -------- -- ------- -------- -- ------- -- -------- - ------- --- - - -- -- - -- -- - -- - -

Table 45 Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities

 2019 2018
(Dollars in millions) Year End Average High (1) Low (1) Year End Average High (1) Low (1)
Foreign exchange $ 4 $ 6 $ 13 $ 2 $ 9 $ 8 $ 15 $ 2
Interest rate 25 24 49 14 36 25 45 15
Credit 26 23 32 16 26 25 31 20
Equity 29 22 33 14 20 20 40 11
Commodities 4 6 31 4 13 8 15 3
Portfolio diversification (47 ) (49 ) — — (59 ) (55 ) — —
Total covered positions portfolio 41 32 47 24 45 31 45 20
Impact from less liquid exposures — 3 — — 5 3 — —
Total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio 41 35 53 27 50 34 51 23
Fair value option loans 8 10 13 7 8 11 18 8
Fair value option hedges 10 10 17 4 5 9 17 4
Fair value option portfolio diversification (9 ) (10 ) — — (7 ) (11 ) — —
Total fair value option portfolio 9 10 16 5 6 9 16 5
Portfolio diversification (5 ) (7 ) — — (3 ) (5 ) — —
Total market-based portfolio $ 45 $ 38 56 28 $ 53 $ 38 57 26

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different trading days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of portfolio diversification, which is the difference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, is not relevant.

The graph below presents the daily covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR for 2019, corresponding to the data in Table 45.

Additional VaR statistics produced within our single VaR model are provided in Table 46 at the same level of detail as in Table 45. Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio as the historical market data used in the VaR calculation does not necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution. Table 46 presents average trading VaR statistics at 99 percent and 95 percent confidence levels for 2019 and 2018.

------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---------- ---- ---------- -- ---------- - - --- - - --

Table 46 Average Market Risk VaR for Trading Activities – 99 percent and 95 percent VaR Statistics

 2019 2018
(Dollars in millions) 99 percent 95 percent 99 percent 95 percent
Foreign exchange $ 6 $ 3 $ 8 $ 5
Interest rate 24 15 25 16
Credit 23 15 25 15
Equity 22 11 20 11
Commodities 6 3 8 4
Portfolio diversification (49 ) (29 ) (55 ) (33 )
Total covered positions portfolio 32 18 31 18
Impact from less liquid exposures 3 2 3 1
Total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio 35 20 34 19
Fair value option loans 10 5 11 6
Fair value option hedges 10 6 9 6
Fair value option portfolio diversification (10 ) (5 ) (11 ) (7 )
Total fair value option portfolio 10 6 9 5
Portfolio diversification (7 ) (5 ) (5 ) (3 )
Total market-based portfolio $ 38 $ 21 $ 38 $ 21

------------------

73 Bank of America

Backtesting
The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that produced the trading loss with a goal to ensure that the VaR methodology accurately represents those losses. We expect the frequency of trading losses in excess of VaR to be in line with the confidence level of the VaR statistic being tested. For example, with a 99 percent confidence level, we expect one trading loss in excess of VaR every 100 days or between two to three trading losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year. The number of backtesting excesses observed can differ from the statistically expected number of excesses if the current level of market volatility is materially different than the level of market volatility that existed during the three years of historical data used in the VaR calculation.
The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples of the types of revenue excluded for backtesting are fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intra-day trading revenues.
We conduct daily backtesting on the VaR results used for regulatory capital calculations as well as the VaR results for key legal entities, regions and risk factors. These results are reported to senior market risk management. Senior management regularly reviews and evaluates the results of these tests.
During 2019, there were no days in which there was a backtesting excess for our total covered portfolio VaR, utilizing a
one-day holding period.
Total Trading-related Revenue
Total trading-related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, and CVA, DVA and funding valuation adjustment gains (losses), represents the total amount earned from trading positions, including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse range of
financial instruments and markets. Trading account assets and liabilities are reported at fair value. For more information on fair value, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading-related revenue can be volatile and is largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-related revenue is dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. Significant daily revenue by business is monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed.
The following histogram is a graphic depiction of trading volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue for 2019 and 2018. During 2019, positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent of the trading days, of which 80 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million, and the largest loss was $35 million. This compares to 2018 where positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent of the trading days, of which 79 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million.

Trading Portfolio Stress Testing
Because the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical window, we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis. This analysis estimates the change in the value of our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements.
A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR. Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that occurred during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, a multi-week period representing the most severe point during a crisis is selected for each historical scenario. Hypothetical scenarios provide estimated portfolio impacts from potential future market stress events. Scenarios are reviewed and updated in response to changing positions and new economic or political information. In addition, new or ad hoc scenarios are developed to address specific potential market events or particular vulnerabilities in the portfolio. The stress tests are reviewed on a regular basis and the results are presented to senior management.
Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated into the limits framework. The macroeconomic scenarios used for enterprise-wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For more information, see Managing Risk on page 42.

Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book
The following discussion presents net interest income for banking book activities.
Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our banking book balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential change in net interest income caused by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet.
We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor

 ------------------

 Bank of America 74

our balance sheet position in order to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.
The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing, maturity characteristics and investment securities premium amortization. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital.
Table 47 presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

---------------------- ------------- ----------------- ---------------- - ----------- ---- -

Table 47 Forward Rates

 December 31, 2019
 FederalFunds Three-monthLIBOR 10-YearSwap
Spot rates 1.75 % 1.91 % 1.90 %
12-month forward rates 1.50 1.62 1.92

 December 31, 2018
Spot rates 2.50 % 2.81 % 2.71 %
12-month forward rates 2.50 2.64 2.75

Table 48 shows the pretax impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2019 and 2018, resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically we evaluate the scenarios presented so that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment.
During 2019, the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet increased primarily due to decreases in interest rates. We continue to be asset sensitive to a parallel move in interest rates with the majority of that impact coming from the short end of the yield curve. Additionally, higher interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as available for sale (AFS), may adversely affect accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near-term adverse impact to Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by offsetting positive impacts to net interest income. For more information on Basel 3, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital on page 46.

------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ----------- --------------- ---- ----- ------ - ----- ------ -

Table 48 Estimated Banking Book Net Interest Income Sensitivity to Curve Changes

 Short Rate (bps) Long Rate (bps)
 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Parallel Shifts
+100 bps instantaneous shift +100 +100 $ 4,190 $ 2,833
-100 bps instantaneous shift -100 -100 (6,536 ) (4,280 )
Flatteners
Short-end instantaneous change +100 — 2,641 2,158
Long-end instantaneous change — -100 (2,965 ) (1,618 )
Steepeners
Short-end instantaneous change -100 — (3,527 ) (2,648 )
Long-end instantaneous change — +100 1,561 675

The sensitivity analysis in Table 48 assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume any change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with

changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, certain residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity.
The behavior of our deposits portfolio in the baseline forecast and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity analysis in Table 48 assumes no change in deposit portfolio size or mix from the baseline forecast in alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits with higher yielding deposits or market-based funding would reduce our benefit in those scenarios.
Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative Contracts
Interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.
Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during 2019 reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions.
We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI were $496 million and $1.3 billion, on a pretax basis, at December 31, 2019 and 2018. These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December 31, 2019, the pretax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows: 17 percent within the next year, 44 percent in years two through five, 22 percent in years six through ten, with the remaining 17 percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at December 31, 2019.
Table 49 presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated

------------------

75 Bank of America

durations of our open ALM derivatives at December 31, 2019 and 2018. These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs. During 2019, the fair value of receive-fixed interest rate

swaps increased while pay-fixed interest rate swaps decreased, driven by lower swap rates.

---------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------- ----------------- ------- ------- ------ - ------ ------ ---- ----- ------ ---------- ----- ------------------------ ----- ----- - ------ ------ - ------ ---- - -------

Table 49 Asset and Liability Management Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Contracts

 December 31, 2019
 Expected Maturity
(Dollars in millions, average estimated duration in years) FairValue Total 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter AverageEstimatedDuration
Receive-fixed interest rate swaps (1) $ 12,370 6.47
Notional amount $ 215,123 $ 16,347 $ 14,642 $ 21,616 $ 36,356 $ 21,257 $ 104,905
Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.68 % 2.68 % 3.17 % 2.48 % 2.36 % 2.55 % 2.79 %
Pay-fixed interest rate swaps (1) (2,669 ) 6.99
Notional amount $ 69,586 $ 4,344 $ 2,117 $ — $ 13,993 $ 8,194 $ 40,938
Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.36 % 2.16 % 2.15 % — % 2.52 % 2.26 % 2.35 %
Same-currency basis swaps (2) (290 )
Notional amount $ 152,160 $ 18,857 $ 18,590 $ 4,306 $ 2,017 $ 14,567 $ 93,823
Foreign exchange basis swaps (1, 3, 4) (1,258 )
Notional amount 113,529 23,639 24,215 14,611 7,111 3,521 40,432
Foreign exchange contracts (1, 4, 5) 414
Notional amount (6) (53,106 ) (79,315 ) 4,539 2,674 2,340 4,432 12,224
Option products —
Notional amount 15 — — — 15 — —
Net ALM contracts $ 8,567

---------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----- ----- ----------------- ------- ------- - ------ ------ ---- - ------ - ---------- ------ ------------------------ ----- - ------ ------ - - ------ ---- - ------

 December 31, 2018
 Expected Maturity
(Dollars in millions, average estimated duration in years) FairValue Total 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter AverageEstimatedDuration
Receive-fixed interest rate swaps (1) $ 2,128 5.17
Notional amount $ 198,914 $ 27,176 $ 16,347 $ 14,640 $ 19,866 $ 36,215 $ 84,670
Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.66 % 1.87 % 2.68 % 3.17 % 2.56 % 2.37 % 2.97 %
Pay-fixed interest rate swaps (1) 295 6.30
Notional amount $ 49,275 $ 1,210 $ 4,344 $ 1,616 $ — $ 10,801 $ 31,304
Weighted-average fixed-rate 2.50 % 2.07 % 2.16 % 2.22 % — % 2.59 % 2.55 %
Same-currency basis swaps (2) 21
Notional amount $ 101,203 $ 7,628 $ 15,097 $ 15,493 $ 2,586 $ 2,017 $ 58,382
Foreign exchange basis swaps (1, 3, 4) (1,716 )
Notional amount 106,742 13,946 21,448 19,241 10,239 6,260 35,608
Foreign exchange contracts (1, 4, 5) 82
Notional amount (6) (8,447 ) (27,823 ) 13 4,196 2,741 2,448 9,978
Option products 2
Notional amount 587 572 — — — 15 —
Net ALM contracts $ 812

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Does not include basis adjustments on either fixed-rate debt issued by the Corporation or AFS debt securities, which are hedged using derivatives designated as fair value hedging instruments, that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the notional amount of same-currency basis swaps included $152.2 billion and $101.2 billion in both foreign currency and U.S. dollar-denominated basis swaps in which both sides of the swap are in the same currency.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Foreign exchange basis swaps consisted of cross-currency variable interest rate swaps used separately or in conjunction with receive-fixed interest rate swaps.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Does not include foreign currency translation adjustments on certain non-U.S. debt issued by the Corporation that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) The notional amount of foreign exchange contracts of $(53.1) billion at December 31, 2019 was comprised of $29.0 billion in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps, $(82.4) billion in net foreign currency forward rate contracts, $(313) million in foreign currency-denominated interest rate swaps and $644 million in net foreign currency futures contracts. Foreign exchange contracts of $(8.4) billion at December 31, 2018 were comprised of $25.2 billion in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps, $(32.7) billion in net foreign currency forward rate contracts, $(1.8) billion in foreign currency-denominated interest rate swaps and $814 million in foreign currency futures contracts.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6) Reflects the net of long and short positions. Amounts shown as negative reflect a net short position.

Mortgage Banking Risk Management
We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be held for investment or held for sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.
Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates and other market factors impact the volume of mortgage originations. Changes in interest rates also impact the value of interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and the related residential first mortgage LHFS between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market. An increase in mortgage interest rates typically leads to a decrease in the value of these instruments. Conversely, when there is an increase in interest

rates, the value of the MSRs will increase driven by lower prepayment expectations. Because the interest rate risks of these hedged items offset, we combine them into one overall hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio consisting of derivative contracts and securities.
During 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded gains of $291 million, $244 million and $118 million related to the change in fair value of the MSRs, IRLCs and LHFS, net of gains and losses on the hedge portfolio. For more information on MSRs, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Compliance and Operational Risk Management
Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the

 ------------------

 Bank of America 76

requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and our internal policies and procedures (collectively, applicable laws, rules and regulations).
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, including third-party business processes, and is not limited to operations functions. Effects may extend beyond financial losses and may result in reputational risk impacts. Operational risk includes legal risk. Additionally, operational risk is a component in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel 3 capital calculation. For more information on Basel 3 calculations, see Capital Management on page 45.
FLUs and control functions are first and foremost responsible for managing all aspects of their businesses, including their compliance and operational risk. FLUs and control functions are required to understand their business processes and related risks and controls, including third-party dependencies, the related regulatory requirements, and monitor and report on the effectiveness of the control environment. In order to actively monitor and assess the performance of their processes and controls, they must conduct comprehensive quality assurance activities and identify issues and risks to remediate control gaps and weaknesses. FLUs and control functions must also adhere to compliance and operational risk appetite limits to meet strategic, capital and financial planning objectives. Finally, FLUs and control functions are responsible for the proactive identification, management and escalation of compliance and operational risks across the Corporation.
Global Compliance and Operational Risk teams independently assess compliance and operational risk, monitor business activities and processes, evaluate FLUs and control functions for adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations, including identifying issues and risks, determining and developing tests to be conducted by the Enterprise Independent Testing unit, and reporting on the state of the control environment. Enterprise Independent Testing, an independent testing function within IRM, works with Global Compliance and Operational Risk, the FLUs and control functions in the identification of testing needs and test design, and is accountable for test execution, reporting and analysis of results.
Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key compliance and operational risk processes and controls across the Corporation.
The Corporation's Global Compliance Enterprise Policy and Operational Risk Management - Enterprise Policy set the requirements for reporting compliance and operational risk information to executive management as well as the Board or appropriate Board-level committees in support of Global Compliance and Operational Risk’s responsibilities for conducting independent oversight of our compliance and operational risk management activities. The Board provides oversight of compliance risk through its Audit Committee and the ERC, and operational risk through the ERC.
A key operational risk facing the Corporation is information security, which includes cybersecurity. Cybersecurity risk represents, among other things, exposure to failures or interruptions of service or breaches of security, including as a result of malicious technological attacks, that impact the confidentiality, availability or integrity of our, or third parties' (including their downstream service providers, the financial services industry and financial data aggregators) operations, systems or data, including sensitive corporate and customer information. The Corporation manages information security risk in accordance with internal policies which govern our

comprehensive information security program designed to protect the Corporation by enabling preventative, detective and responsive measures to combat information and cybersecurity risks. The Board and the ERC provide cybersecurity and information security risk oversight for the Corporation and our Global Information Security Team manages the day-to-day implementation of our information security program.

Reputational Risk Management
Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation’s conduct or business practices may adversely impact its profitability or operations. Reputational risk may result from many of the Corporation’s activities, including those related to the management of our strategic, operational, compliance and credit risks.
The Corporation manages reputational risk through established policies and controls in its businesses and risk management processes to mitigate reputational risks in a timely manner and through proactive monitoring and identification of potential reputational risk events. If reputational risk events occur, we focus on remediating the underlying issue and taking action to minimize damage to the Corporation’s reputation. The Corporation has processes and procedures in place to respond to events that give rise to reputational risk, including educating individuals and organizations that influence public opinion, implementing external communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key stakeholders of potential reputational risks. The Corporation’s organization and governance structure provides oversight of reputational risks, and reputational risk reporting is provided regularly and directly to management and the ERC, which provides primary oversight of reputational risk. In addition, each FLU has a committee, which includes representatives from Compliance, Legal and Risk, that is responsible for the oversight of reputational risk. Such committees’ oversight includes providing approval for business activities that present elevated levels of reputational risks.

Complex Accounting Estimates
Our significant accounting principles, as described in Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are essential in understanding the MD&A. Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments.

The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could materially impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs.

------------------

77 Bank of America

Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management’s estimate of probable incurred credit losses in the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. The allowance for credit losses includes both quantitative and qualitative components. The qualitative component has a higher degree of management subjectivity, and includes factors such as concentrations, economic conditions and other considerations. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Consumer Real Estate and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial card portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, coupled with a one-percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2019 would have increased $18 million. Within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, for each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment coupled with a one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2019 would have increased $46 million.
Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already classified as Substandard and Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased $2.6 billion at December 31, 2019.
The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at December 31, 2019 was 0.97 percent and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 1.24 percent.
These sensitivity analyses do not represent management’s expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote.
The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.
The processes, judgments and estimates described herein relate to the accounting standard in effect through December 31, 2019. On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the Corporation’s relevant financial assets. The Corporation’s lifetime
expected credit losses are determined using macroeconomic forecast assumptions and management judgments applicable to and through the expected life of the loan portfolios. For more

information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Under applicable accounting standards, we are required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in measuring fair value. We classify fair value measurements of financial instruments and MSRs based on the three-level fair value hierarchy in the accounting standards.
The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is affected by our understanding of how the broker and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own internal modeling. For example, broker quotes in less active markets may only be indicative and therefore less reliable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business. For more information, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements and Note 22 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Level 3 Assets and Liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities, and MSRs, where values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting standards. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities and MSRs is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital. We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy classifications on
a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. For more information on transfers into and out of Level 3 during 2019, 2018

 ------------------

 Bank of America 78

and 2017, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets
Accrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than 100 jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance, in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction.
Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more likely than not to be realized.
Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimates of accrued income taxes and/or net deferred tax assets due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimates, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax audit matters, may be material to our operating results for any given period.

See Note 20 – Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information. For more information, see page 14 under Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory, Compliance and Legal.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles, and Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2019 for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. We performed that test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its respective carrying value. Factors considered in the qualitative assessments include, among other things, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, financial performance of the respective reporting unit and other relevant entity- and reporting-unit specific considerations. If based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative assessment is performed.
Based on our qualitative assessments, we determined that for each reporting unit with goodwill, it was more likely than not that its respective fair value exceeded its carrying value, indicating there was no impairment. For more information regarding goodwill balances at June 30, 2019, see Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Certain Contingent Liabilities
For more information on the complex judgments associated with certain contingent liabilities, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

------------------

79 Bank of America

Non-GAAP Reconciliations
Tables 50 and 51 provide reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- --------- ---- ------- ---- --------- ------- - ---- --------- - ------- --------- - ---------

Table 50 Five-year Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures (1)

(Dollars in millions, shares in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Reconciliation of average shareholders’ equity to average tangible shareholders’ equity and average tangible common shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity $ 267,889 $ 264,748 $ 271,289 $ 265,843 $ 251,384
Goodwill (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (69,286 ) (69,750 ) (69,772 )
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (1,721 ) (2,058 ) (2,652 ) (3,382 ) (4,201 )
Related deferred tax liabilities 773 906 1,463 1,644 1,852
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 197,990 $ 194,645 $ 200,814 $ 194,355 $ 179,263
Preferred stock (23,036 ) (22,949 ) (24,188 ) (24,656 ) (21,808 )
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 174,954 $ 171,696 $ 176,626 $ 169,699 $ 157,455
Reconciliation of year-end shareholders’ equity to year-end tangible shareholders’ equity and year-end tangible common shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity $ 264,810 $ 265,325 $ 267,146 $ 266,195 $ 255,615
Goodwill (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (69,744 ) (69,761 )
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (1,661 ) (1,774 ) (2,312 ) (2,989 ) (3,768 )
Related deferred tax liabilities 713 858 943 1,545 1,716
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 194,911 $ 195,458 $ 196,826 $ 195,007 $ 183,802
Preferred stock (23,401 ) (22,326 ) (22,323 ) (25,220 ) (22,272 )
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 171,510 $ 173,132 $ 174,503 $ 169,787 $ 161,530
Reconciliation of year-end assets to year-end tangible assets
Assets $ 2,434,079 $ 2,354,507 $ 2,281,234 $ 2,188,067 $ 2,144,606
Goodwill (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (69,744 ) (69,761 )
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (1,661 ) (1,774 ) (2,312 ) (2,989 ) (3,768 )
Related deferred tax liabilities 713 858 943 1,545 1,716
Tangible assets $ 2,364,180 $ 2,284,640 $ 2,210,914 $ 2,116,879 $ 2,072,793

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ------ --------- ------- - ------ --------- ----- ------- --------- ----- ------- - --------- ------- - - --------- - - --------- - ---------

Table 51 Quarterly Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures (1)

 2019 Quarters 2018 Quarters
(Dollars in millions) Fourth Third Second First Fourth Third Second First
Reconciliation of average shareholders’ equity to average tangible shareholders’ equity and average tangible common shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity $ 266,900 $ 270,430 $ 267,975 $ 266,217 $ 263,698 $ 264,653 $ 265,181 $ 265,480
Goodwill (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 )
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (1,678 ) (1,707 ) (1,736 ) (1,763 ) (1,857 ) (1,992 ) (2,126 ) (2,261 )
Related deferred tax liabilities 730 752 770 841 874 896 916 939
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 197,001 $ 200,524 $ 198,058 $ 196,344 $ 193,764 $ 194,606 $ 195,020 $ 195,207
Preferred stock (23,461 ) (23,800 ) (22,537 ) (22,326 ) (22,326 ) (22,841 ) (23,868 ) (22,767 )
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 173,540 $ 176,724 $ 175,521 $ 174,018 $ 171,438 $ 171,765 $ 171,152 $ 172,440
Reconciliation of period-end shareholders’ equity to period-end tangible shareholders’ equity and period-end tangible common shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity $ 264,810 $ 268,387 $ 271,408 $ 267,010 $ 265,325 $ 262,158 $ 264,216 $ 266,224
Goodwill (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 )
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (1,661 ) (1,690 ) (1,718 ) (1,747 ) (1,774 ) (1,908 ) (2,043 ) (2,177 )
Related deferred tax liabilities 713 734 756 773 858 878 900 920
Tangible shareholders’ equity $ 194,911 $ 198,480 $ 201,495 $ 197,085 $ 195,458 $ 192,177 $ 194,122 $ 196,016
Preferred stock (23,401 ) (23,606 ) (24,689 ) (22,326 ) (22,326 ) (22,326 ) (23,181 ) (24,672 )
Tangible common shareholders’ equity $ 171,510 $ 174,874 $ 176,806 $ 174,759 $ 173,132 $ 169,851 $ 170,941 $ 171,344
Reconciliation of period-end assets to period-end tangible assets
Assets $ 2,434,079 $ 2,426,330 $ 2,395,892 $ 2,377,164 $ 2,354,507 $ 2,338,833 $ 2,291,670 $ 2,328,478
Goodwill (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 ) (68,951 )
Intangible assets (excluding MSRs) (1,661 ) (1,690 ) (1,718 ) (1,747 ) (1,774 ) (1,908 ) (2,043 ) (2,177 )
Related deferred tax liabilities 713 734 756 773 858 878 900 920
Tangible assets $ 2,364,180 $ 2,356,423 $ 2,325,979 $ 2,307,239 $ 2,284,640 $ 2,268,852 $ 2,221,576 $ 2,258,270

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 80

------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----

Statistical Tables

Table of Contents
 Page
Table I – Outstanding Loans and Leases 81
Table II – Nonperforming Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties 82
Table III – Accruing Loans and Leases Past Due 90 Days or More 82
Table IV – Selected Loan Maturity Data 83
Table V – Allowance for Credit Losses 83
Table VI – Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type 84

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ----------- ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---- ------- ------- ------- ------- - -------

Table I Outstanding Loans and Leases

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Consumer
Residential mortgage $ 236,169 $ 208,557 $ 203,811 $ 191,797 $ 187,911
Home equity 40,208 48,286 57,744 66,443 75,948
Credit card 97,608 98,338 96,285 92,278 89,602
Non-U.S. credit card — — — 9,214 9,975
Direct/Indirect consumer (1) 90,998 91,166 96,342 95,962 90,149
Other consumer (2) 192 202 166 626 713
Total consumer loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 465,175 446,549 454,348 456,320 454,298
Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option (3) 594 682 928 1,051 1,871
Total consumer 465,769 447,231 455,276 457,371 456,169
Commercial
U.S. commercial 307,048 299,277 284,836 270,372 252,771
Non-U.S. commercial 104,966 98,776 97,792 89,397 91,549
Commercial real estate (4) 62,689 60,845 58,298 57,355 57,199
Commercial lease financing 19,880 22,534 22,116 22,375 21,352
 494,583 481,432 463,042 439,499 422,871
U.S. small business commercial (5) 15,333 14,565 13,649 12,993 12,876
Total commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option 509,916 495,997 476,691 452,492 435,747
Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option (3) 7,741 3,667 4,782 6,034 5,067
Total commercial 517,657 499,664 481,473 458,526 440,814
Less: Loans of business held for sale (6) — — — (9,214 ) —
Total loans and leases $ 983,426 $ 946,895 $ 936,749 $ 906,683 $ 896,983

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes primarily auto and specialty lending loans and leases of $50.4 billion, $50.1 billion, $52.4 billion, $50.7 billion and $43.9 billion, U.S. securities-based lending loans of $36.7 billion, $37.0 billion, $39.8 billion, $40.1 billion and $39.8 billion and non-U.S. consumer loans of $2.8 billion, $2.9 billion, $3.0 billion, $3.0 billion and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Substantially all of other consumer at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is consumer overdrafts. Other consumer at December 31, 2016 and 2015 also includes consumer finance loans of $465 million and $564 million, respectively.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of $257 million, $336 million, $567 million, $710 million and $1.6 billion, and home equity loans of $337 million, $346 million, $361 million, $341 million and $250 million at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial loans of $4.7 billion, $2.5 billion, $2.6 billion, $2.9 billion and $2.3 billion, and non-U.S. commercial loans of $3.1 billion, $1.1 billion, $2.2 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of $59.0 billion, $56.6 billion, $54.8 billion, $54.3 billion and $53.6 billion, and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of $3.7 billion, $4.2 billion, $3.5 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- -------------------------------
(5) Includes card-related products.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6) Represents non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

------------------

81 Bank of America

----------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- - -----

Table II Nonperforming Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties (1)

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Consumer
Residential mortgage $ 1,470 $ 1,893 $ 2,476 $ 3,056 $ 4,803
Home equity 536 1,893 2,644 2,918 3,337
Direct/Indirect consumer 47 56 46 28 24
Other consumer — — — 2 1
Total consumer (2) 2,053 3,842 5,166 6,004 8,165
Commercial
U.S. commercial 1,094 794 814 1,256 867
Non-U.S. commercial 43 80 299 279 158
Commercial real estate 280 156 112 72 93
Commercial lease financing 32 18 24 36 12
 1,449 1,048 1,249 1,643 1,130
U.S. small business commercial 50 54 55 60 82
Total commercial (3) 1,499 1,102 1,304 1,703 1,212
Total nonperforming loans and leases 3,552 4,944 6,470 7,707 9,377
Foreclosed properties 285 300 288 377 459
Total nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties $ 3,837 $ 5,244 $ 6,758 $ 8,084 $ 9,836

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Balances exclude foreclosed properties insured by certain government-guaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured loans, that entered foreclosure of $260 million, $488 million, $801 million, $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) In 2019, $422 million in interest income was estimated to be contractually due on $2.1 billion of consumer loans and leases classified as nonperforming at December 31, 2019, as presented in the table above, plus $5.5 billion of TDRs classified as performing at December 31, 2019. Approximately $297 million of the estimated $422 million in contractual interest was received and included in interest income for 2019.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) In 2019, $133 million in interest income was estimated to be contractually due on $1.5 billion of commercial loans and leases classified as nonperforming at December 31, 2019, as presented in the table above, plus $1.3 billion of TDRs classified as performing at December 31, 2019. Approximately $88 million of the estimated $133 million in contractual interest was received and included in interest income for 2019.

-------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------ ----------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- --- ---- ----- --- ----- ----- - -----

Table III Accruing Loans and Leases Past Due 90 Days or More (1)

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Consumer
Residential mortgage (2) $ 1,088 $ 1,884 $ 3,230 $ 4,793 $ 7,150
Credit card 1,042 994 900 782 789
Non-U.S. credit card — — — 66 76
Direct/Indirect consumer 33 38 40 34 39
Other consumer — — — 4 3
Total consumer 2,163 2,916 4,170 5,679 8,057
Commercial
U.S. commercial 106 197 144 106 113
Non-U.S. commercial 8 — 3 5 1
Commercial real estate 19 4 4 7 3
Commercial lease financing 20 29 19 19 15
 153 230 170 137 132
U.S. small business commercial 97 84 75 71 61
Total commercial 250 314 245 208 193
Total accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more $ 2,413 $ 3,230 $ 4,415 $ 5,887 $ 8,250

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Our policy is to classify consumer real estate-secured loans as nonperforming at 90 days past due, except the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option.

--- ---------------------------------
(2) Balances are fully-insured loans.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 82

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------------- ------- ------------------- ------- ------ - ------ ------- - - -------

Table IV Selected Loan Maturity Data (1, 2)

 December 31, 2019
(Dollars in millions) Due in OneYear or Less Due After One Year Through Five Years Due AfterFive Years Total
U.S. commercial $ 76,523 $ 200,298 $ 50,216 $ 327,037
U.S. commercial real estate 13,683 39,259 6,023 58,965
Non-U.S. and other (3) 47,828 56,072 7,875 111,775
Total selected loans $ 138,034 $ 295,629 $ 64,114 $ 497,777
Percent of total 28 % 59 % 13 % 100 %
Sensitivity of selected loans to changes in interest rates for loans due after one year:
Fixed interest rates $ 21,526 $ 31,383
Floating or adjustable interest rates 274,103 32,731
Total $ 295,629 $ 64,114

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Loan maturities include non-U.S. commercial and commercial real estate loans.

---------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------- ------ ---- ------ ---- ------ ------ - ---- ------ - ------ ------ - ------

Table V Allowance for Credit Losses

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Allowance for loan and lease losses, January 1 $ 9,601 $ 10,393 $ 11,237 $ 12,234 $ 14,419
Loans and leases charged off
Residential mortgage (93 ) (207 ) (188 ) (403 ) (866 )
Home equity (429 ) (483 ) (582 ) (752 ) (975 )
Credit card (3,535 ) (3,345 ) (2,968 ) (2,691 ) (2,738 )
Non-U.S. credit card (1) — — (103 ) (238 ) (275 )
Direct/Indirect consumer (518 ) (495 ) (491 ) (392 ) (383 )
Other consumer (249 ) (197 ) (212 ) (232 ) (224 )
Total consumer charge-offs (4,824 ) (4,727 ) (4,544 ) (4,708 ) (5,461 )
U.S. commercial (2) (650 ) (575 ) (589 ) (567 ) (536 )
Non-U.S. commercial (115 ) (82 ) (446 ) (133 ) (59 )
Commercial real estate (31 ) (10 ) (24 ) (10 ) (30 )
Commercial lease financing (26 ) (8 ) (16 ) (30 ) (19 )
Total commercial charge-offs (822 ) (675 ) (1,075 ) (740 ) (644 )
Total loans and leases charged off (5,646 ) (5,402 ) (5,619 ) (5,448 ) (6,105 )
Recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off
Residential mortgage 140 179 288 272 393
Home equity 787 485 369 347 339
Credit card 587 508 455 422 424
Non-U.S. credit card (1) — — 28 63 87
Direct/Indirect consumer 309 300 277 258 271
Other consumer 15 15 49 27 31
Total consumer recoveries 1,838 1,487 1,466 1,389 1,545
U.S. commercial (3) 122 120 142 175 172
Non-U.S. commercial 31 14 6 13 5
Commercial real estate 2 9 15 41 35
Commercial lease financing 5 9 11 9 10
Total commercial recoveries 160 152 174 238 222
Total recoveries of loans and leases previously charged off 1,998 1,639 1,640 1,627 1,767
Net charge-offs (3,648 ) (3,763 ) (3,979 ) (3,821 ) (4,338 )
Provision for loan and lease losses 3,574 3,262 3,381 3,581 3,043
Other (4) (111 ) (291 ) (246 ) (514 ) (890 )
Total allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 9,416 9,601 10,393 11,480 12,234
Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale (5) — — — (243 ) —
Allowance for loan and lease losses, December 31 9,416 9,601 10,393 11,237 12,234
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, January 1 797 777 762 646 528
Provision for unfunded lending commitments 16 20 15 16 118
Other (4) — — — 100 —
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments, December 31 813 797 777 762 646
Allowance for credit losses, December 31 $ 10,229 $ 10,398 $ 11,170 $ 11,999 $ 12,880

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Represents amounts related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Includes U.S. small business commercial charge-offs of $320 million, $287 million, $258 million, $253 million and $282 million in 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Includes U.S. small business commercial recoveries of $48 million, $47 million, $43 million, $45 million and $57 million in 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4) Primarily represents write-offs of PCI loans, the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation adjustments, transfers to held for sale and certain other reclassifications.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(5) Represents allowance related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.

------------------

83 Bank of America

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------- ------- ---- ---- ---- ------- ---- - ---- ------- - ---- ------- - -------

Table V Allowance for Credit Losses (continued)

(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Loan and allowance ratios (6):
Loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) $ 975,091 $ 942,546 $ 931,039 $ 908,812 $ 890,045
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (7) 0.97 % 1.02 % 1.12 % 1.26 % 1.37 %
Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (8) 0.98 1.08 1.18 1.36 1.63
Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total commercial loans and leases outstanding at December 31 (9) 0.96 0.97 1.05 1.16 1.11
Average loans and leases outstanding (7) $ 951,583 $ 927,531 $ 911,988 $ 892,255 $ 869,065
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding (7) 0.38 % 0.41 % 0.44 % 0.43 % 0.50 %
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 265 194 161 149 130
Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs 2.58 2.55 2.61 3.00 2.82
Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (10) $ 4,151 $ 4,031 $ 3,971 $ 3,951 $ 4,518
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31 (10) 148 % 113 % 99 % 98 % 82 %

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6) Loan and allowance ratios for 2016 include $243 million of non-U.S. credit card allowance for loan and lease losses and $9.2 billion of ending non-U.S. credit card loans, which were sold in 2017.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(7) Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option of $8.3 billion, $4.3 billion, $5.7 billion, $7.1 billion and $6.9 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Average loans accounted for under the fair value option were $6.8 billion, $5.5 billion, $6.7 billion, $8.2 billion and $7.7 billion in 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(8) Excludes consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option of $594 million, $682 million, $928 million, $1.1 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(9) Excludes commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option of $7.7 billion, $3.7 billion, $4.8 billion, $6.0 billion and $5.1 billion at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

---- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(10) Primarily includes amounts allocated to credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking and, in 2016 and 2015, the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in All Other.

---------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------ --------------- ------ ------ ----- --------------- ------ ------ ------ --------------- ---- ------ - --------------- ------ ------ --------------- - ------ ------ ----- ------ ---- ------ ------ - ----- ----- -

Table VI Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type

 December 31
 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
(Dollars in millions) Amount Percentof Total Amount Percentof Total Amount Percentof Total Amount Percentof Total Amount Percentof Total
Allowance for loan and lease losses
Residential mortgage $ 325 3.45 % $ 422 4.40 % $ 701 6.74 % $ 1,012 8.82 % $ 1,500 12.26 %
Home equity 221 2.35 506 5.27 1,019 9.80 1,738 15.14 2,414 19.73
Credit card 3,710 39.39 3,597 37.47 3,368 32.41 2,934 25.56 2,927 23.93
Non-U.S. credit card — — — — — — 243 2.12 274 2.24
Direct/Indirect consumer 234 2.49 248 2.58 264 2.54 244 2.13 223 1.82
Other consumer 52 0.55 29 0.30 31 0.30 51 0.44 47 0.38
Total consumer 4,542 48.23 4,802 50.02 5,383 51.79 6,222 54.21 7,385 60.36
U.S. commercial (1) 3,015 32.02 3,010 31.35 3,113 29.95 3,326 28.97 2,964 24.23
Non-U.S. commercial 658 6.99 677 7.05 803 7.73 874 7.61 754 6.17
Commercial real estate 1,042 11.07 958 9.98 935 9.00 920 8.01 967 7.90
Commercial lease financing 159 1.69 154 1.60 159 1.53 138 1.20 164 1.34
Total commercial 4,874 51.77 4,799 49.98 5,010 48.21 5,258 45.79 4,849 39.64
Total allowance for loan and lease losses 9,416 100.00 % 9,601 100.00 % 10,393 100.00 % 11,480 100.00 % 12,234 100.00 %
Less: Allowance included in assets of business held for sale (2) — — — (243 ) —
Allowance for loan and lease losses 9,416 9,601 10,393 11,237 12,234
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments 813 797 777 762 646
Allowance for credit losses $ 10,229 $ 10,398 $ 11,170 $ 11,999 $ 12,880

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes allowance for loan and lease losses for U.S. small business commercial loans of $523 million, $474 million, $439 million, $416 million and $507 million at December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Represents allowance for loan and lease losses related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 84

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 84

[see Note 21]:
Note 21 -- Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets 132

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 4]:
(4) Adjusted income tax rate is calculated as adjusted income tax expense as a percentage of income from consolidated operations before income taxes, excluding transaction and integration expenses and special charges, or $840.0 million, $780.1 million, and $694.1 million for the years ended November 30, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. 32 ------------------------------------- -------------- ---------------------------------------------- Estimate for the year ending November 30, 2020 Earnings per share - diluted $5.15 to $5.25 Impact of special charges 0.05 Adjusted earnings per share - diluted $5.20 to $5.30 Because we are a multi-national company, we are subject to variability of our reported U.S. dollar results due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Those changes have been volatile over the past several years. The exclusion of the effects of foreign currency exchange, or what we refer to as amounts expressed "on a constant currency basis," is a non-GAAP measure. We believe that this non-GAAP measure provides additional information that enables enhanced comparison to prior periods excluding the translation effects of changes in rates of foreign currency exchange and provides additional insight into the underlying performance of our operations located outside of the U.S. It should be noted that our presentation herein of amounts and percentage changes on a constant currency basis does not exclude the impact of foreign currency transaction gains and losses (that is, the impact of transactions denominated in other than the local currency of any of our subsidiaries in their local currency reported results). Percentage changes in sales and adjusted operating income expressed on a constant currency basis are presented excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange. To present this information for historical periods, current year results for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchan...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11.Commitments and Contingencies Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $4.54 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2019, which is primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Legal Matters Beginning on March 20, 2018, multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed in state and federal courts in the United States and elsewhere against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws, breach of fiduciary duties, and other causes of action in connection with our platform and user data practices as well as the misuse of certain data by a developer that shared such data with third parties in violation of our terms and policies, and seeking 94  unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Beginning on July 27, 2018, two putative class actions were filed in federal court in the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws in connection with the disclosure of our earnings results for the second quarter of 2018 and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California with the putative securities class a...

[see Note 12]:
Note 12 Repurchases of Common Stock 92

[see Note 8]:
(8) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-177561) pertaining to Netflix, Inc. 2011 Stock Plan; of our reports dated January 29, 2020, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Netflix, Inc. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Netflix, Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Netflix, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2019. -------------------- --------------------- /s/ Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California January 29, 2020 EX-31.1 5 ex311q419.htm EXHIBIT 31.1 Exhibit EXHIBIT 31.1 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 I, Reed Hastings, certify that: -- ----------------------------------------------------------------- 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Netflix, Inc.; -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; -- -------...

[see Note 24]:
Note 24. New Accounting Standards: Recently adopted On February 25, 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ASU 2016-02, "Leases" ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 requires organizations that lease assets to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Additionally, ASU 2016-02 modifies current guidance for lessors' accounting. ASU 2016-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. PMI has identified its lease management system and has identified and evaluated the applicable leases. In addition to the guidance in ASU 2016-02, PMI has evaluated ASU 2018-11, which was issued in July 2018 and provides an optional transitional method. As a result of this evaluation, PMI elected to use the optional transition method, which allows companies to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition and not adjust comparative period financial information or make the new required disclosures for periods prior to the effective date. Additionally, PMI elected to use the hindsight practical expedient, as well as the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard. Upon adoption, PMI recognized lease liabilities and the corresponding right-of-use assets (at the present value of future payments) for predominately all of its operating leases in place at that time. At January 1, 2019, PMI's adoption of ASU 2016-02 resulted in an increase of approximately $0.7 billion on its assets and liabilities in its statement of financial position. ASU 2016-02 did not have a material impact on its results of operations or cash flows. For further details, see Note 23. Leases. On January 1, 2019, PMI elected to early adopt ASU 2018-15 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal - Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Im...

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[see Note 24]:
Note 24. New Accounting Standards: Recently adopted On February 25, 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ASU 2016-02, "Leases" ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 requires organizations that lease assets to recognize on the balance sheet the assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by those leases. Additionally, ASU 2016-02 modifies current guidance for lessors' accounting. ASU 2016-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. PMI has identified its lease management system and has identified and evaluated the applicable leases. In addition to the guidance in ASU 2016-02, PMI has evaluated ASU 2018-11, which was issued in July 2018 and provides an optional transitional method. As a result of this evaluation, PMI elected to use the optional transition method, which allows companies to use the effective date as the date of initial application on transition and not adjust comparative period financial information or make the new required disclosures for periods prior to the effective date. Additionally, PMI elected to use the hindsight practical expedient, as well as the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard. Upon adoption, PMI recognized lease liabilities and the corresponding right-of-use assets (at the present value of future payments) for predominately all of its operating leases in place at that time. At January 1, 2019, PMI's adoption of ASU 2016-02 resulted in an increase of approximately $0.7 billion on its assets and liabilities in its statement of financial position. ASU 2016-02 did not have a material impact on its results of operations or cash flows. For further details, see Note 23. Leases. On January 1, 2019, PMI elected to early adopt ASU 2018-15 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal - Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Im...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

[see Note 7]:
(7) Lennar Other Evaluation of segment performance is based primarily on operating earnings (loss) before income taxes. Operations of the Company's homebuilding segments primarily include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes, as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through the Company's unconsolidated entities. Operating earnings (loss) for the homebuilding segments consist of revenues generated from the sales of homes and land, equity in earnings (loss) from unconsolidated entities and other income (expense), net, less the cost of homes sold and land sold, selling, general and administrative expenses incurred by the segment and loss due to litigation. The Company's reportable homebuilding segments and all other homebuilding operations not required to be reported separately, have homebuilding divisions located in: East: Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and South Carolina Central: Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Tennessee and Virginia Texas: Texas West: Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington Other: Urban divisions and other homebuilding related investments primarily in California, including Five Point Holdings, LLC ("FivePoint") Operations of the Financial Services segment include primarily mortgage financing, title and closing services primarily for buyers of the Company's homes. It also includes originating and selling into securitizations commercial mortgage loans through its RMF business. The Financial Services segment sells substantially all of the loans it originates within a short period of time in the secondary mortgage market, the majority of which are sold on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, the Company retains potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that it breached certain limited industry standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Financial Service...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11.Commitments and Contingencies Guarantee In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. Other contractual commitments We also have $4.54 billion of non-cancelable contractual commitments as of December 31, 2019, which is primarily related to network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years. Legal Matters Beginning on March 20, 2018, multiple putative class actions and derivative actions were filed in state and federal courts in the United States and elsewhere against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws, breach of fiduciary duties, and other causes of action in connection with our platform and user data practices as well as the misuse of certain data by a developer that shared such data with third parties in violation of our terms and policies, and seeking 94  unspecified damages and injunctive relief. Beginning on July 27, 2018, two putative class actions were filed in federal court in the United States against us and certain of our directors and officers alleging violations of securities laws in connection with the disclosure of our earnings results for the second quarter of 2018 and seeking unspecified damages. These two actions subsequently were transferred and consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California with the putative securities class a...

[see Note 12]:
Note 12 Repurchases of Common Stock 92

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 84

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 22]:
Note 22. Deconsolidation of RBH: As discussed in Note 18. Contingencies, following the March 1, 2019, judgment of the Court of Appeal of Québec in two class action lawsuits against PMI's Canadian subsidiary, Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. ("RBH"), PMI recorded in its consolidated results a pre-tax charge of $194 million, representing $142 million net of tax, in the first quarter of 2019. This pre-tax Canadian tobacco litigation-related expense was included in marketing, administration and research costs on PMI's consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2019. The charge reflects PMI's assessment of the portion of the judgment that represents probable and estimable loss prior to the deconsolidation of RBH and corresponds to the trust account deposit required by the judgment. RBH's share of the deposit is approximately CAD 257 million. On March 22, 2019, RBH obtained an initial order from the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granting it protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act ("CCAA"), which is a Canadian federal law that permits a Canadian business to restructure its affairs while carrying on its business in the ordinary course with minimal disruption to its customers, suppliers and employees. The administration of the CCAA process, principally relating to the powers provided to the court and the court appointed monitor, removes certain elements of control of the business from both PMI and RBH. As a result, PMI has determined that it no longer has a controlling financial interest over RBH as defined in ASC 810 (Consolidation), and PMI deconsolidated RBH as of the date of the CCAA filing. PMI has also determined that it does not exert "significant influence" over RBH as that term is defined in ASC 323 (Investments-Equity Method and Joint Ventures). Therefore, as of March 22, 2019, PMI accounted for its continuing investment in RBH in accordance with ASC 321 (Investments-Equity Securities) as an equity security, without readi...

[see Note 22]:
Note 22. Deconsolidation of RBH: As discussed in Note 18. Contingencies, following the March 1, 2019, judgment of the Court of Appeal of Québec in two class action lawsuits against PMI's Canadian subsidiary, Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. ("RBH"), PMI recorded in its consolidated results a pre-tax charge of $194 million, representing $142 million net of tax, in the first quarter of 2019. This pre-tax Canadian tobacco litigation-related expense was included in marketing, administration and research costs on PMI's consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2019. The charge reflects PMI's assessment of the portion of the judgment that represents probable and estimable loss prior to the deconsolidation of RBH and corresponds to the trust account deposit required by the judgment. RBH's share of the deposit is approximately CAD 257 million. On March 22, 2019, RBH obtained an initial order from the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granting it protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act ("CCAA"), which is a Canadian federal law that permits a Canadian business to restructure its affairs while carrying on its business in the ordinary course with minimal disruption to its customers, suppliers and employees. The administration of the CCAA process, principally relating to the powers provided to the court and the court appointed monitor, removes certain elements of control of the business from both PMI and RBH. As a result, PMI has determined that it no longer has a controlling financial interest over RBH as defined in ASC 810 (Consolidation), and PMI deconsolidated RBH as of the date of the CCAA filing. PMI has also determined that it does not exert "significant influence" over RBH as that term is defined in ASC 323 (Investments-Equity Method and Joint Ventures). Therefore, as of March 22, 2019, PMI accounted for its continuing investment in RBH in accordance with ASC 321 (Investments-Equity Securities) as an equity security, without readi...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

[see Note 22]:
Note 22. Deconsolidation of RBH: As discussed in Note 18. Contingencies, following the March 1, 2019, judgment of the Court of Appeal of Québec in two class action lawsuits against PMI's Canadian subsidiary, Rothmans, Benson & Hedges Inc. ("RBH"), PMI recorded in its consolidated results a pre-tax charge of $194 million, representing $142 million net of tax, in the first quarter of 2019. This pre-tax Canadian tobacco litigation-related expense was included in marketing, administration and research costs on PMI's consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2019. The charge reflects PMI's assessment of the portion of the judgment that represents probable and estimable loss prior to the deconsolidation of RBH and corresponds to the trust account deposit required by the judgment. RBH's share of the deposit is approximately CAD 257 million. On March 22, 2019, RBH obtained an initial order from the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granting it protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act ("CCAA"), which is a Canadian federal law that permits a Canadian business to restructure its affairs while carrying on its business in the ordinary course with minimal disruption to its customers, suppliers and employees. The administration of the CCAA process, principally relating to the powers provided to the court and the court appointed monitor, removes certain elements of control of the business from both PMI and RBH. As a result, PMI has determined that it no longer has a controlling financial interest over RBH as defined in ASC 810 (Consolidation), and PMI deconsolidated RBH as of the date of the CCAA filing. PMI has also determined that it does not exert "significant influence" over RBH as that term is defined in ASC 323 (Investments-Equity Method and Joint Ventures). Therefore, as of March 22, 2019, PMI accounted for its continuing investment in RBH in accordance with ASC 321 (Investments-Equity Securities) as an equity security, without readi...

[see Note 5]:
(5) As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp and BlueLine in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. Estimated market share as of December 31, 2018 includes the standalone, pre-acquisition revenues of BakerCorp and BlueLine. Strategy For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency. In 2020, we expect to continue our disciplined focus on increasing our profitability and return on invested capital. In particular, our strategy calls for: - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single point of contact; - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- * The further optimization of our customer mix and fleet mix, with a dual objective: to enhance our performance in serving our current customer base, and to focus on the accounts and customer types that are best suited to our strategy for profitable growth. We believe these efforts will lead to even better service of our target accounts, primarily large construction and industrial customers, as well as select l...

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 21]:
Note 21 -- Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets 132

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[see Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

[see Note 21]:
Note 21 -- Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets 132

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[see Note 21]:
Note 21 -- Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets 132

[see Note 21]:
Note 21 -- Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets 132

[See Note 20]:
Note 20 Debt and Commitments FS-50

[see Note 8]:
(8) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-177561) pertaining to Netflix, Inc. 2011 Stock Plan; of our reports dated January 29, 2020, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Netflix, Inc. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Netflix, Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Netflix, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2019. -------------------- --------------------- /s/ Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California January 29, 2020 EX-31.1 5 ex311q419.htm EXHIBIT 31.1 Exhibit EXHIBIT 31.1 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 I, Reed Hastings, certify that: -- ----------------------------------------------------------------- 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Netflix, Inc.; -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; -- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; -- -------...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

[discussed under Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 22

['s review of the submitted information, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years which could increase operating costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries.
For more information regarding our resolution plan, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 7.
Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority
Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the

Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors’ consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a BHC’s outstanding equity, as well as impairment or elimination of certain debt.
Under the FDIC’s “single point of entry” strategy for resolving SIFIs, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC.
Furthermore, the Federal Reserve requires that BHCs maintain minimum levels of long-term debt required to provide adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution.
For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity on page 7.
Limitations on Acquisitions
The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At June 30, 2019, we held greater than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S.
In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by a financial institution if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial institution would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At June 30, 2019, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S.
The Volcker Rule
The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities’ investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market-making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is required

 -----------------

 Bank of America 4

to maintain a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule.
Derivatives
Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation globally. These operations are subject to regulation under the Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and similar regulatory regimes in other jurisdictions, that regulate or will regulate the derivatives markets in which we operate by, among other things: requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives; and imposing derivatives trading transparency requirements. Regulations of derivatives are already in effect in many markets in which we operate.
In addition, many G-20 jurisdictions, including the U.S., U.K., Germany and Japan, have adopted resolution stay regulations to address concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other financial contracts in resolution could impede orderly resolution of global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), and additional jurisdictions are expected to follow suit. Generally, these resolution stay regulations require amendment of certain financial contracts to provide for contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under various statutory resolution regimes and a stay on the exercise of cross-default rights based on an affiliate’s entry into insolvency proceedings. As resolution stay regulations of a particular jurisdiction applicable to us go into effect, we amend impacted financial contracts in compliance with such regulations either as a regulated entity or as a counterparty facing a regulated entity in such jurisdiction.
Consumer Regulations
Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal consumer finance laws to which we are subject, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth in Lending Act and Truth in Savings Act, are enforced by the CFPB. Other federal consumer finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, are enforced by the OCC.
Privacy and Information Security
We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures regarding the disclosure, use and protection of the non-public confidential information of our customers and employees. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to periodically disclose Bank of America’s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties, under certain circumstances. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other laws also require us to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to provide the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. Security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations.
Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or contact customers with marketing offers and establish certain rights of consumers in connection with their personal information. For example, California’s Consumer Privacy

Act (CCPA), which went into effect in January 2020, provides consumers with the right to know what personal data is being collected, know whether their personal data is sold or disclosed and to whom and opt out of the sale of their personal data, among other rights. In addition, in the EU, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) replaced the Data Protection Directive and related implementing national laws in its member states. The CCPA']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 22

[' inability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and reputation.
Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could hurt our business prospects and competitive position.
Our performance is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified personnel within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry is intense. Our competitors include non-U.S. based institutions and institutions subject to different compensation and hiring regulations than those imposed on U.S. institutions and financial institutions.
In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, we must provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and other regulators around the world. EU and U.K. rules limit and subject

------------------

17 Bank of America

to clawback certain forms of variable compensation for senior employees. Current and potential future limitations on executive compensation imposed by legislation or regulation could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain qualified employees. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our annual incentive compensation paid to our senior employees has in recent years taken the form of long-term equity-based awards. Therefore, the ultimate value of this compensation depends on the price of our common stock when the awards vest. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified individuals, our business prospects and competitive position could be adversely affected.
We could suffer operational, reputational and financial harm if our models and strategies fail to properly anticipate and manage risk.
We use proprietary models and strategies extensively to forecast losses, project revenue, measure and assess capital requirements for credit, country, market, operational and strategic risks and assess and control our operations and financial condition. These models require oversight, including independent validation before initial use, ongoing monitoring through outcomes analysis and benchmarking, and periodic revalidation.  Models are subject to inherent limitations due to the use of historical trends and simplifying assumptions, uncertainty regarding economic and financial outcomes, and emerging risks from the use of applications that rely on artificial intelligence.
Our models and strategies may not be sufficiently predictive of future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or unanticipated market movements or customer behavior and illiquidity, especially during severe market downturns or stress events, which could limit their effectiveness. The models that we use to assess and control our market risk exposures also reflect assumptions about the degree of correlation among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators, which may not be representative of the next downturn and would magnify the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. Our models may not be effective if we fail to properly oversee them and detect their flaws during our review and monitoring processes, they contain erroneous data, assumptions, valuations, formulas or algorithms or our applications running the models do not perform as expected. Regardless of the steps we take to ensure effective controls, governance, monitoring and testing, and implement new technology and automated processes, we could suffer operational, reputational and financial harm if models and strategies fail to properly anticipate and manage current and evolving risks.
Failure to properly manage and aggregate data may result in our inability to manage risk and business needs, errors in our day-to-day operations, critical reporting and strategic decision-making and inaccurate financial, regulatory and operational reporting.
We rely on our ability to manage, aggregate, interpret and use data in an accurate, timely and complete manner for effective risk reporting and management. Our policies, programs, processes and practices govern how data is managed, aggregated, interpreted and used. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices and implement emerging technologies, such as automation, artificial intelligence and robotics, our data management and aggregation processes are subject to failure, including human error, system failure or failed controls. Failure to maintain and manage data and information effectively and to aggregate data and information in an accurate, timely and complete manner may impact its quality and reliability and limit our ability to manage current and emerging risk, to produce accurate financial, regulatory and operational reporting, as well as to manage changing business needs, strategic decision-making and day-to-day operations. The failure to establish and maintain

effective, efficient and controlled data management could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop our products and relationships with our customers and damage our reputation.
Reforms to and uncertainty regarding IBORs, including the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and certain other rates or indices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could result in reputational harm to the Corporation.
In 2017, the U.K. FCA announced that it will no longer persuade or require participating banks to submit rates for LIBOR after 2021. The continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot be guaranteed after 2021, and there is substantial risk that LIBOR will be modified by 2021 or discontinued thereafter. This announcement, in conjunction with financial benchmark reforms and changes in short-term interbank lending markets more generally, have resulted in significant uncertainty about the potential or actual discontinuation of IBORs, including LIBOR, and certain other rates or indices that serve as “benchmarks.” Such benchmarks are used extensively in the global financial markets and in our business. In particular, LIBOR is used in many of our products and contracts, including mortgages, consumer, commercial and corporate loans, derivatives, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate products and financial instruments. The aggregate notional amount of these products and contracts is material to our business. These reforms and actions may result in significant uncertainty as to future rules or methodologies used to calculate benchmarks, cause new or reformed benchmarks to perform differently from the discontinued benchmarks they are replacing, cause existing benchmarks to disappear or become unavailable or unrepresentative, or have other consequences that cannot be fully anticipated, which expose us to various financial, operational and legal risks.
Certain ARRs have been proposed to replace LIBOR and other IBORs. For example, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of private-market participants and official-sector entities convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has recommended that the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) replace U.S. dollar LIBOR. However, the market transition from IBORs to ARRs is complex and pervasive throughout a number of different types of products and global financial markets. There can be no assurance that ARRs will be adequate alternatives to IBORs, that existing assets and liabilities based on or linked to IBORs will transition successfully to ARRs, of the timing of adoption and degree of integration and acceptance of such ARRs in the global financial markets, or of the future availability or representativeness of such ARRs. Our products and contracts that reference IBORs, in particular LIBOR, may contain language that determines when a successor rate including the ARR and/or the applicable spread adjustment to the designated rate (including IBORs) would be selected or determined. If a trigger is satisfied, our products and contracts may give the calculation agent (which may be us) discretion over the successor rate to be selected. The considerable uncertainty as to how the financial services industry will address the discontinuation of IBORs and/or such IBORs ceasing to be acceptable reference rates in financial instruments could ultimately result in client disputes and litigation surrounding the proper interpretation of our IBOR-based products and contracts. Accordingly, uncertainty regarding ARRs may continue to impact our business, operations and financial condition repeatedly and indefinitely.
The discontinuation of IBORs, including LIBOR, will require us to remediate IBOR-based products and contracts, including related hedging arrangements, that mature after the discontinuation date of the IBOR. These changes may adversely affect the yield on loans or securities held by us, amounts paid on securities we have

 ------------------

 Bank of America 18

issued, amounts received and paid on derivatives we have entered into, the value of such loans, securities or derivative instruments, the trading market for such products and contracts, and our ability to effectively use hedging instruments to manage risk. While some of these outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts include fallback provisions to ARRs, some of our outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts do not include fallback provisions or adequate fallback mechanisms requiring remediation to modify their terms. Additionally, some outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts are particularly challenging to modify due to the requirement that all impacted parties consent to such modification.
In light of the extensive use of IBOR-based products and contracts by us and other market participants, there can be no assurance that we and other market participants will be able to successfully modify all outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts or be adequately prepared for a discontinuation of an IBOR at the time such IBOR may cease to be published or otherwise discontinued. Also, there can be no assurance that existing or new provisions for successor rates in our IBOR-based products and contracts will include adequate methodologies for adjustments between the applicable IBOR and the corresponding successor rate or that the characteristics of the successor rates will be similar to or produce the economic equivalent of the benchmarks they seek to replace. For example, SOFR and other ARRs have compositions and characteristics that differ significantly from the benchmarks they may replace, have limited history, and may demonstrate less predictable performance over time than the benchmarks they replace.
Changes or uncertainty resulting from the market transition from IBORs to ARRs could adversely affect the return on and pricing, liquidity and value of outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts, cause significant market dislocations and

disruptions that are relevant to our business segments, particularly Global Banking and Global Markets, potentially increase the cost of and access to capital, increase the risk of litigation or other disputes, including in connection with the interpretation and enforceability of, or our historical marketing practices or disclosures with respect to, outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts with counterparties, and/or increase expenses related to the transition to ARRs, among other adverse consequences. Additionally, the process of transitioning to ARRs may result in increased costs and may also divert management time and attention from other areas of our business.
The market transition from IBORs to ARRs may also alter our risk profile and risk management strategies, including derivatives and hedging strategies, modeling and analytics, valuation tools, product design and systems, controls, procedures and operational infrastructure. This may prove challenging given the limited history of many of the proposed ARRs and may increase the costs and risks related to potential regulatory compliance, requirements or inquiries. Among other risks, various products and contracts may transition to ARRs at different times or in different manners, with the result that we may face significant unexpected interest rate, pricing or other exposures across business or product lines. Reforms to and uncertainty regarding market transition from current IBORs to ARRs and other factors, including the pace of the transition to ARRs, the specific terms and parameters for market acceptance of any ARRs, prices of and liquidity of trading markets for products based on ARRs, and our ability to transition and develop appropriate systems and analytics for one or more ARRs, may adversely affect our business, including the ability to serve customers and maintain market share, financial condition or results of operations and could result in reputational harm to the Corporation.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None

Item 2. Properties
As of December 31, 2019, certain principal offices and other materially important properties consisted of the following:

---------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------- --------------- ------------------------

Facility Name Location General Character of the Physical Property Primary Business Segment Property Status Property Square Feet (1)
Bank of America Corporate Center Charlotte, NC 60 Story Building Principal Executive Offices Owned 1,212,177
Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park New York, NY 55 Story Building GWIM, Global Banking and Global Markets Leased (2) 1,836,575
Bank of America Financial Centre London, UK 4 Building Campus Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 562,595
Cheung Kong Center Hong Kong 62 Story Building Global Banking and Global Markets Leased 149,790

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) For leased properties, property square feet represents the square footage occupied by the Corporation.

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) The Corporation has a 49.9 percent joint venture interest in this property.

We own or lease approximately 76.3 million square feet in over 20,000 facility and ATM locations globally, including approximately 70.7 million square feet in the U.S. (all 50 states and the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Guam) and approximately 5.6 million square feet in more than 35 countries.
We believe our owned and leased properties are adequate for our business needs and are well maintained. We continue to evaluate our owned and leased real estate and may determine from time to time that certain of our premises and facilities, or ownership structures, are no longer necessary for our operations. In connection therewith, we are evaluating the sale or sale/leaseback of certain properties and we may incur costs in connection with any such transactions.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings
See Litigation and Regulatory Matters in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
None

------------------

19 Bank of America

Part II
Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “BAC.” As of February 18, 2020, there were 161,882 registered shareholders of common stock.
The table below presents share repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2019. The primary source of funds for cash distributions by the Corporation to its shareholders is

dividends received from its bank subsidiaries. Each of the bank subsidiaries is subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. All of the Corporation’s preferred stock outstanding has preference over the Corporation’s common stock with respect to payment of dividends.

------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------ ------ - ------

(Dollars in millions, except per share information; shares in thousands) Total Common Shares Purchased (1) Weighted-Average Per Share Price Total SharesPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Programs Remaining BuybackAuthority Amounts (2)
October 1 - 31, 2019 97,540 $ 29.50 97,538 $ 20,442
November 1 - 30, 2019 74,649 32.75 74,649 17,997
December 1 - 31, 2019 70,943 34.19 70,940 15,571
Three months ended December 31, 2019 243,132 31.87 243,127

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes shares of the Corporation’s common stock acquired by the Corporation in connection with satisfaction of tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock or restricted stock units and certain forfeitures and terminations of employment-related awards and for potential re-issuance to certain employees under equity incentive plans.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) On June 27, 2019, following the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System']:
Note 17 - Postretirement Plans 92

['s income under the equity method. For more information, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
U.K. Exit from the EU
On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally exited the European Union (EU). Upon exit, a transition period began during which time the U.K. and the EU expect to negotiate a trade agreement and other terms associated with their future relationship. The transition period is scheduled to end on December 31, 2020.
We conduct business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa primarily through our subsidiaries in the U.K., Ireland and France. For information on the changes we have implemented to enable us to continue to operate in the region, including establishing a bank and broker-dealer in the EU, see the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019. While we have taken measures to minimize operational disruption and prepare for various potential outcomes of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU, the preparedness of our counterparties and the relevant financial markets infrastructure remain outside our control. The global economic impact of the U.K.’s withdrawal from
the EU remains uncertain and could result in regional and global

financial market disruptions. We continue to assess potential risks, including operational, regulatory and legal risks.
LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rates
Following the 2017 announcement by the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that it will no longer persuade or require participating banks to submit rates for the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) after 2021, central banks and regulators around the world have commissioned working groups to find suitable replacements for Interbank Offered Rates (IBOR), including LIBOR, and other benchmark rates and to implement financial benchmark reforms more generally. The future discontinuance of IBORs is a complex process that has resulted in significant uncertainty regarding the transition to suitable alternative reference rates (ARRs) and could cause disruptions in a variety of global financial markets, as well as adversely impact our business, operations and financial results.
IBORs, including LIBOR, are used in many of the Corporation’s products and contracts, including mortgages, consumer, commercial and corporate loans, derivatives, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate products and financial instruments. The aggregate notional amount of these products and contracts is material to our business. As previously disclosed, to facilitate an orderly transition from IBORs and other benchmark rates to ARRs, the Corporation has established an enterprise-wide initiative led by senior management. As part of this initiative, the Corporation continues to identify, assess and monitor risks associated with the expected discontinuation or unavailability of LIBOR and other benchmarks and evaluate and address documentation and contractual mechanics of outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts that mature after 2021 and new and potential future ARR-based products and contracts to achieve operational readiness. Additionally, the Corporation is continuing to evaluate potential regulatory, tax and accounting impacts of the transition, including guidance published and/or proposed by the Internal Revenue Service and Financial Accounting Standards Board, engage impacted clients in connection with the transition to ARRs and work actively with global regulators, industry working groups and trade associations to develop strategies for an effective transition to ARRs.
The Corporation is also modifying its operational models, systems, procedures and internal infrastructure to transition to ARRs. In 2019, the Corporation launched capabilities to support issuance and trading in products indexed to the new Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), which is the alternative benchmark rate to U.S. dollar LIBOR recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of private-market participants and official-sector entities convened by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities. Also, in 2019, the Corporation issued debt linked to SOFR, and the Corporation co-arranged one of the first credit facilities linked to SOFR and has implemented fallback provisions into certain new IBOR-based products and contracts. The Corporation continues to monitor the development and usage of ARRs, including SOFR. For more information on the expected replacement of LIBOR and other benchmark rates, see Item 1A. Risk Factors - Other on page 17.

------------------

23 Bank of America

Financial Highlights
In the Consolidated Statement of Income, amounts related to certain asset and liability management (ALM) activities have been reclassified from other income to market making and similar activities, which was previously referred to as trading account income. All prior periods presented reflect this change, which has no impact on the Corporation']:
Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies 53

['s depository institution subsidiaries are also subject to the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. The Corporation and its primary affiliated banking entity, BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3 and are required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy including under the PCA framework. As of December 31, 2019, the Common equity tier 1 (CET1) and Tier 1 capital ratios for the Corporation were lower under the Standardized approach whereas the Advanced approaches yielded a lower Total capital ratio.
Minimum Capital Requirements
Minimum capital requirements and related buffers were fully phased in as of January 1, 2019. The PCA framework established categories of capitalization, including well capitalized, based on

the Basel 3 regulatory ratio requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization, with no mandatory actions required for well-capitalized banking organizations.
In order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments, the Corporation must meet risk-based capital ratio requirements that include a capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent, plus any applicable countercyclical capital buffer and a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge. The buffers and surcharge must be comprised solely of CET1 capital.
The Corporation is also required to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Our insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum 6.0 percent SLR to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework. The numerator of the SLR is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital. The denominator is total leverage exposure based on the daily average of the sum of on-balance sheet exposures less permitted Tier 1 deductions, as well as the simple average of certain off-balance sheet exposures, as of the end of each month in a quarter.
Capital Composition and Ratios
Table 11 presents Bank of America Corporation’s capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2019 and 2018. As of the periods presented herein, the Corporation met the definition of well capitalized under current regulatory requirements.

 ------------------

 Bank of America 46

--------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------- ------------------ ------- --------------------- ------- ----- -

Table 11 Bank of America Corporation Regulatory Capital under Basel 3

 StandardizedApproach AdvancedApproaches RegulatoryMinimum (1)
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2019
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 166,760 $ 166,760
Tier 1 capital 188,492 188,492
Total capital (2) 221,230 213,098
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,493 1,447
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.2 % 11.5 % 9.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.6 13.0 11.0
Total capital ratio 14.8 14.7 13.0

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 2,374 $ 2,374
Tier 1 leverage ratio 7.9 % 7.9 % 4.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,946
SLR 6.4 % 5.0

 December 31, 2018
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 167,272 $ 167,272
Tier 1 capital 189,038 189,038
Total capital (2) 221,304 212,878
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,437 1,409
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 11.6 % 11.9 % 8.25 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.2 13.4 9.75
Total capital ratio 15.4 15.1 11.75

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 2,258 $ 2,258
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.4 % 8.4 % 4.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,791
SLR 6.8 % 5.0

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) The capital conservation buffer and G-SIB surcharge were 2.5 percent at December 31, 2019 and 1.875 percent at December 31, 2018. The countercyclical capital buffer for both periods was zero. The SLR minimum includes a leverage buffer of 2.0 percent.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.

At December 31, 2019, CET1 capital and Total capital under the Advanced approaches were relatively unchanged compared to December 31, 2018. Risk-weighted assets under the Standardized approach, which yielded the lower CET1 capital ratio at December 31, 2019, increased $56.3 billion during 2019 to $1,493 billion

primarily due to loan growth and increased client activity in Global Markets and Global Banking.
Table 12 shows the capital composition at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------- ----------- ---- ------- - -------

Table 12 Capital Composition under Basel 3

 December 31
(Dollars in millions) 2019 2018
Total common shareholders’ equity $ 241,409 $ 242,999
Goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities (68,570 ) (68,572 )
Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (5,193 ) (5,981 )
Intangibles, other than mortgage servicing rights and goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities (1,328 ) (1,294 )
Other 442 120
Common equity tier 1 capital 166,760 167,272
Qualifying preferred stock, net of issuance cost 22,329 22,326
Other (597 ) (560 )
Tier 1 capital 188,492 189,038
Tier 2 capital instruments 22,538 21,887
Eligible credit reserves included in Tier 2 capital 2,097 1,972
Other (29 ) (19 )
Total capital under the Advanced approaches $ 213,098 $ 212,878

------------------

47 Bank of America

Table 13 shows the components of risk-weighted assets as measured under Basel 3 at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

--------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ----- ------------------- --- --------------------- ----- ------------------- - ----- - -----

Table 13 Risk-weighted Assets under Basel 3

 Standardized Approach Advanced Approaches Standardized Approach Advanced Approaches
 December 31
(Dollars in billions) 2019 2018
Credit risk $ 1,437 $ 858 $ 1,384 $ 827
Market risk 56 55 53 52
Operational risk n/a 500 n/a 500
Risks related to credit valuation adjustments n/a 34 n/a 30
Total risk-weighted assets $ 1,493 $ 1,447 $ 1,437 $ 1,409

n/a = not applicable

Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital
Table 14 presents regulatory capital information for BANA in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2019 and 2018. BANA met the definition of well capitalized under the PCA framework at both year ends.

--------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------ -------------------- --- ------------------ - --------------------- ---- -

Table 14 Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital under Basel 3

 StandardizedApproach AdvancedApproaches RegulatoryMinimum (1)
(Dollars in millions, except as noted) December 31, 2019
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 154,626 $ 154,626
Tier 1 capital 154,626 154,626
Total capital (2) 166,567 158,665
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,241 991
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 % 15.6 % 7.0 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 15.6 8.5
Total capital ratio 13.4 16.0 10.5

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 1,780 $ 1,780
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.7 % 8.7 % 5.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,177
SLR 7.1 % 6.0

 December 31, 2018
Risk-based capital metrics:
Common equity tier 1 capital $ 149,824 $ 149,824
Tier 1 capital 149,824 149,824
Total capital (2) 161,760 153,627
Risk-weighted assets (in billions) 1,195 959
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 % 15.6 % 6.5 %
Tier 1 capital ratio 12.5 15.6 8.0
Total capital ratio 13.5 16.0 10.0

Leverage-based metrics:
Adjusted quarterly average assets (in billions) (3) $ 1,719 $ 1,719
Tier 1 leverage ratio 8.7 % 8.7 % 5.0

SLR leverage exposure (in billions) $ 2,112
SLR 7.1 % 6.0

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Risk-based capital regulatory minimums at December 31, 2019 are the minimum ratios under Basel 3 including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent. The regulatory minimums for the leverage ratios as of both period ends and risk-based capital ratios as of December 31, 2018 are the percent required to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework.

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Requirements
Effective January 1, 2019, the Corporation is subject to the Federal Reserve’s final rule requiring G-SIBs to maintain minimum levels of total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) and long-term debt. TLAC consists of the Corporation’s Tier 1 capital and eligible long-term debt issued directly by the Corporation. Eligible long-term debt for TLAC ratios is comprised of unsecured debt that has a remaining

maturity of at least one year and satisfies additional requirements as prescribed in the TLAC final rule. As with the risk-based capital ratios and SLR, the Corporation is required to maintain TLAC ratios in excess of minimum requirements plus applicable buffers to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Table 15 presents the Corporation']:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106.2 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161.1 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42.0 million, which represents the difference between the $54.8 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $125.9 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $44.8 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remainder to net liabilities assumed. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Allegorithmic acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration. Adding Marketo's engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries...

['s and GDPR’s impact on the Corporation was assessed and addressed through comprehensive compliance implementation programs. These existing and evolving legal requirements in the U.S. and abroad, as well as court proceedings with respect to the validity of cross-border data transfer mechanisms from the EU, continue to lend uncertainty to privacy compliance globally.

Item 1A. Risk Factors
In the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to our own businesses. The discussion below addresses the most significant factors, of which we are currently aware, that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in Forward-looking Statements in the MD&A on page 22. However, other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could also adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that we may face. For more information on how we manage risks, see Managing Risk in the MD&A on page 42.
Any risk factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, materially adversely affect our liquidity, competitive position, business, reputation, results of operations, capital position or financial condition, including by materially increasing our expenses or decreasing our revenues, which could result in material losses.
Market
Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by the U.S. and international financial markets, U.S. and non-U.S. fiscal, monetary, and regulatory policies, and economic conditions generally.
General economic, political and social conditions in the U.S. and in one or more countries abroad affect markets in the U.S. and abroad and our business. In particular, markets in the U.S. or abroad may be affected by the level and volatility of interest rates, availability and market conditions of financing, unexpected changes in gross domestic product (GDP), economic growth or its sustainability, inflation, consumer spending, employment levels, wage stagnation, federal government shutdowns, energy prices, home prices, bankruptcies, a default by a significant market participant, fluctuations or other significant changes in both debt and equity capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the global financial markets, the growth of global trade and commerce, trade policies, the availability and cost of capital and credit, disruption of communication, transportation or energy infrastructure and investor sentiment and confidence. Additionally, global markets may be adversely affected by natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, cyber attacks or campaigns, military conflict, terrorism or other geopolitical events. Market fluctuations may impact our margin requirements and affect our business liquidity. Also, any sudden or prolonged market downturn in the U.S. or abroad, as a result of the above factors or otherwise could result in a decline in revenue and adversely

-----------------

5 Bank of America

affect our results of operations and financial condition, including capital and liquidity levels.
In the U.S. and abroad, uncertainties surrounding fiscal and monetary policies present economic challenges. Actions taken by the Federal Reserve, including changes in its target funds rate and balance sheet management, and other central banks are beyond our control and difficult to predict and can affect interest rates and the value of financial instruments and other assets and liabilities, and impact our borrowers. A continued protracted period of lower interest rates, or a move to negative interest rates in the U.S., could result in lower revenue, and maintain or increase pressure on net-interest income, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Uncertainty or ongoing developments in connection with the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU, and the resulting impact on the financial markets and regulations in relevant jurisdictions, could negatively impact our revenues and ongoing operations in Europe and beyond.
Changes to existing U.S. laws and regulatory policies, including those related to financial regulation, taxation, international trade, fiscal policy and healthcare, may adversely impact U.S. or global economic activity and our customers']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 22

['s exit from the EU and the uncertainty related to the transition from Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs) and other benchmark rates to alternative reference rates (ARRs) could negatively impact markets in the U.S. and abroad and our business and/or magnify any negative impact of the above referenced developments on our business, customers and results of operations.
Increased market volatility and adverse changes in other financial or capital market conditions may increase our market risk.
Our liquidity, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition are affected by market risks such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates, fluctuations in equity and futures prices, lower trading volumes and prices of securitized products, the implied volatility of interest rates and credit spreads and other economic and business factors. These market risks may adversely affect, among other things, (i) the value of our on- and off-balance sheet securities, trading assets and other financial instruments, (ii) the cost of debt capital and our access to credit markets, (iii) the value of assets under management (AUM), (iv) fee income relating to AUM, (v) customer allocation of capital among investment alternatives, (vi) the volume of client activity in our trading operations, (vii) investment banking fees, (viii) the general profitability and risk level of the transactions in which we engage and (ix) our competitiveness with respect to

deposit pricing. For example, the value of certain of our assets is sensitive to changes in market interest rates. If the Federal Reserve or a non-U.S. central bank changes or signals a change in monetary policy, market interest rates could be affected, which could adversely impact the value of such assets. In addition, the low interest rate environment and a flat or inverted yield curve could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations, including future revenue and earnings growth.
We use various models and strategies to assess and control our market risk exposures but those are subject to inherent limitations. For more information regarding models and strategies, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Other on page 17. In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated and vice versa. These types of market movements may limit the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and cause us to incur significant losses. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we own securities that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. In addition, challenging market conditions may also adversely affect our investment banking fees.
For more information about market risk and our market risk management policies and procedures, see Market Risk Management in the MD&A on page 71.
We may incur losses if the value of certain assets declines, including due to changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds.
We have a large portfolio of financial instruments, including certain loans and loan commitments, loans held-for-sale, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, available-for-sale (AFS) debt and marketable equity securities, other debt securities, equity method investments and certain other assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value and other accounting values, subject to impairment assessments. We determine these values based on applicable accounting guidance, which for financial instruments measured at fair value, requires an entity to base fair value on exit price and to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in fair value measurements. The fair values of these financial instruments include adjustments for market liquidity, credit quality, funding impact on certain derivatives and other transaction-specific factors, where appropriate.
Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct impact on our results of operations, including higher or lower mortgage banking income and earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures. Increases in interest rates may result in a decrease in residential mortgage loan originations. In addition, increases in interest rates may adversely impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated other comprehensive income and, thus, capital levels.
Fair values may be impacted by declining values of the underlying assets or the prices at which observable market transactions occur and the continued availability of these transactions or indices. The financial strength of counterparties, with whom we have economically hedged some of our exposure to these assets, also will affect the fair value of these assets.

 -----------------

 Bank of America 6

Sudden declines and volatility in the prices of assets may curtail or eliminate trading activities in these assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value these assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk-weighted assets, which requires us to maintain additional capital and increases our funding costs. Asset values also directly impact revenues in our wealth management and related advisory businesses. We receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients’ portfolios or investments in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive performance fees based on increases in the value of such investments. Declines in asset values can reduce the value of our clients’ portfolios or fund assets, which in turn can result in lower fees earned for managing such assets.
For more information on fair value measurements, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on our asset management businesses, see GWIM in the MD&A on page 35. For more information on interest rate risk management, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book in the MD&A on page 74.
Liquidity
If we are unable to access the capital markets or continue to maintain deposits, or our borrowing costs increase, our liquidity and competitive position will be negatively affected.
Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities, as well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the capital markets. We rely on certain secured funding sources, such as repo markets, which are typically short-term and credit-sensitive in nature. We also engage in asset securitization transactions, including with the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), to fund consumer lending activities. Our liquidity could be adversely affected by any inability to access the capital markets, illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets, the decrease in value of eligible collateral or increased collateral requirements, including as a result of credit concerns for short-term borrowing, changes to our relationships with our funding providers based on real or perceived changes in our risk profile, prolonged federal government shutdowns, or changes in regulations, guidance or GSE status that impact our funding avenues or ability to access certain funding sources. Additionally, the unwillingness or inability of the Federal Reserve to act as lender of last resort, unexpected simultaneous draws on lines of credit, restricted access to the assets of prime brokerage clients, the withdrawal of customer deposits, which could result from customer attrition for higher yields or the desire for more conservative alternatives, increased regulatory liquidity, capital and margin requirements for our U.S. or international banks and their nonbank subsidiaries, changes in patterns of intraday liquidity usage resulting from a counterparty or technology failure or other idiosyncratic event, failure by a significant market participant or third party, such as a clearing agent or custodian, reputational issues, or negative perceptions about our short- or long-term business prospects, including downgrades of our credit ratings may adversely affect our liquidity.
Several of these factors may arise due to circumstances beyond our control, such as general market volatility, disruption, shock or stress, Federal Reserve policy decisions, including fluctuations in interest rates or Federal Reserve balance sheet composition, negative views about the Corporation or financial services industry generally or due to a specific news event, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental fiscal or monetary policies, actions by credit rating agencies or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. The impact of these events, whether within our

control or not, could include an inability to sell assets or redeem investments, unforeseen outflows of cash, the need to draw on liquidity facilities, the reduction of financing balances and the loss of equity secured funding, debt repurchases to support the secondary market or meet client requests and the need for additional funding for commitments and contingencies, as well as unexpected collateral calls, among other things, the result of which could be a liquidity shortfall and/or impact on our liquidity coverage ratio.
Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market conditions, including changes in interest and currency exchange rates, and to our credit spreads. Credit spreads are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of a similar maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can increase the cost of our funding and result in mark-to-market or credit valuation adjustment exposures. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. We may also experience spread compression as a result of offering higher than expected deposit rates in order to attract and maintain deposits due to increased marketplace rate competition. Additionally, concentrations within our funding profile, such as maturities, currencies or counterparties, can reduce our funding efficiency.
For more information about our liquidity position and other liquidity matters, including credit ratings and outlooks and the policies and procedures we use to manage our liquidity risks, see Liquidity Risk in the MD&A on page 50.
Adverse changes to our credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies could significantly limit our access to funding or the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs or trigger additional collateral or funding requirements.
Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are directly impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and seek to engage in certain transactions, including OTC derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by rating agencies, which consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control such as the current economic and geopolitical environment, and to a lesser extent, the likelihood of the U.S. government providing meaningful support to us or our subsidiaries in a crisis.
Rating agencies could make adjustments to our credit ratings at any time, and there can be no assurance as to when and whether downgrades will occur. A reduction in certain of our credit ratings could result in a wider credit spread and negatively affect our liquidity, access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, or bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries, were downgraded by one or more levels, we may suffer the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing, and/or incur increased cost of funds and increased collateral requirements. Under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, if our or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings are downgraded, the counterparties may require additional collateral or terminate these contracts or agreements.

-----------------

7 Bank of America

While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit rating downgrade to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties.
For more information on the amount of additional collateral required and derivative liabilities that would be subject to unilateral termination at December 31, 2019, if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by each of two incremental notches, see Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral in Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For more information about our credit ratings and their potential effects to our liquidity, see Liquidity Risk – Credit Ratings in the MD&A on page 52 and Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Bank of America Corporation is a holding company and we depend upon our subsidiaries for liquidity, including the ability to pay dividends to shareholders and to fund payments on other obligations. Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, and actions taken pursuant to our resolution plan could restrict our ability to transfer funds from subsidiaries to Bank of America Corporation or to other subsidiaries, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.
Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries. We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity basis. Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal, regulatory, contractual and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, including the parent company, which could result in adverse liquidity events. The parent company depends on dividends, distributions, loans, advances and other payments from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make payments to us may adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition.
Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. Our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses. Intercompany arrangements we entered into in connection with our resolution planning submissions could restrict the amount of funding available to the parent company from our subsidiaries under certain adverse conditions.
Additional restrictions on related party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of the parent company and even require the parent company to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Also, regulatory action that requires additional liquidity at each of our subsidiaries could impede access to funds we need to pay our obligations or pay dividends. In addition, our right to participate in

a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. For more information regarding our ability to pay dividends, see Capital Management in the MD&A on page 45 and Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the event of a resolution, whether in a bankruptcy proceeding or under the orderly liquidation authority of the FDIC, such resolution could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the ability to pay dividends to shareholders and to pay obligations.
Bank of America Corporation, our parent holding company, is required to periodically submit a plan to the FDIC and Federal Reserve describing its resolution strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure. In the current plan, Bank of America Corporation’s preferred resolution strategy is a “single point of entry” strategy. This strategy provides that only the parent holding company files for resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and contemplates providing certain key operating subsidiaries with sufficient capital and liquidity to operate through severe stress and to enable such subsidiaries to continue operating or be wound down in a solvent manner following a bankruptcy of the parent holding company. Bank of America Corporation has entered into intercompany arrangements resulting in the contribution of most of its capital and liquidity to key subsidiaries. Pursuant to these arrangements, if Bank of America Corporation’s liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that resolution becomes imminent, Bank of America Corporation will no longer be able to draw liquidity from its key subsidiaries, and will be required to contribute its remaining financial assets to a wholly-owned holding company subsidiary, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the ability to pay dividends to shareholders and meet our payment obligations.
If the FDIC and Federal Reserve jointly determine that Bank of America Corporation’s resolution plan is not credible, they could impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations. Further, we could be required to take certain actions that could impose operating costs and could potentially result in the divestiture or restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries.
Additionally, under the Financial Reform Act, when a G-SIB such as Bank of America Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. In 2013, the FDIC issued a notice describing its preferred “single point of entry” strategy for resolving a G-SIB. Under this approach, the FDIC could replace Bank of America Corporation with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity would be held solely for the benefit of our creditors. The FDIC’s “single point of entry” strategy may result in our security holders suffering greater losses than would have been the case under a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy.
For more information about resolution planning, see Item 1. Business – Resolution Planning on page 4. For more information about the FDIC’s orderly liquidation, see Item 1. Business – Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority on page 4.

 -----------------

 Bank of America 8

Credit
Economic or market disruptions, insufficient credit loss reserves or concentrations of credit risk may result in an increase in the provision for credit losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, letters of credit, derivatives, debt securities, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale. A deterioration in the financial condition of our consumer and commercial borrowers, counterparties or underlying collateral could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Global and U.S. economic conditions and macroeconomic or market events and disruptions, including a continuing slowdown in global GDP growth, a decline in consumer spending, a decline in property values or an asset price correction, increasing consumer and corporate leverage, as well as rising unemployment, fluctuations in foreign exchange or interest rates, widespread health emergencies or pandemics and/or natural disasters, may impact our credit portfolios. In addition, significant economic or market stresses and disruptions could have a negative impact on the business environment and financial markets, increasing the risk that borrowers or counterparties would default or become delinquent in their obligations to us, which could lead to recessionary conditions and/or increase our credit losses and provision for credit losses, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
In particular, increases in delinquencies and default rates could adversely affect our consumer credit card, home equity and residential mortgage portfolios through increased charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A deteriorating economic environment in the U.S. or globally could also adversely affect our consumer and commercial loan portfolios with weakened client and collateral positions. Simultaneous drawdowns on lines of credit and/or an increase in a borrower’s leverage in a weakening economic environment could result in deterioration in our credit portfolio, should borrowers be unable to fulfill competing financial obligations. The impact of this could also be magnified by lending to leveraged borrowers, elevated asset prices and/or declining property or collateral values unrelated to macroeconomic stress.
We estimate and establish an allowance for credit losses for losses inherent in our lending activities (including unfunded lending commitments), excluding those measured at fair value, through a charge to earnings. The process for determining the amount of the allowance requires us to make difficult and complex judgments, including forecasting how borrowers will react to changing economic conditions. The ability of our borrowers or counterparties to repay their obligations will likely be impacted by changes in future economic conditions, which in turn could impact the accuracy of our loss forecasts and allowance estimates. There is also the possibility that we will fail to accurately identify the appropriate economic indicators or that we will fail to accurately estimate their impacts to our borrowers and the reserves that we hold.
We may suffer unexpected losses if the models and assumptions we use to establish reserves and make judgments in extending credit to our borrowers or counterparties prove inaccurate in predicting future events. In addition, external factors, such as the macroeconomic or market events disclosed above can also negatively impact our recognition of credit losses in our portfolios and impact our allowance for credit losses. As of January 1, 2020, we implemented a new accounting standard to estimate our allowance for credit losses. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although we believe that the allowance for credit losses is in compliance with the new accounting standard

at January 1, 2020, there is no guarantee that it will be sufficient to address credit losses, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate quickly and/or significantly. In such an event, we may increase the size of our allowance which would reduce our earnings.
In the ordinary course of our business, we also may be subject to concentrations of credit risk because of a common characteristic or common sensitivity to economic, financial or business developments. For example, concentrations in credit risk may result in a particular industry, geographic location, product, asset class, counterparty, individual exposure or within any pool of exposures with a common risk characteristic. A deterioration in the financial condition or prospects of a particular industry, geographic location, product or asset class, or a failure or downgrade of, or default by, any particular entity or group of entities could negatively affect our businesses and it is possible our limits and credit monitoring exposure controls will not function as anticipated.
While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including broker-dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual funds and hedge funds, central counterparties and other institutional clients. This has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. Financial services institutions and other counterparties are inter-related because of trading, funding, clearing or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even market uncertainty about the financial stability of one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity disruptions, losses and defaults.
Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk and, in some cases, disputes and litigation in the event of default of a counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be heightened by market risk when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due to us, which may occur as a result of fraud or other events that impact the value of the collateral. Further, disputes with obligors as to the valuation of collateral could increase in times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and we could suffer losses during such periods if we are unable to realize the fair value of the collateral or manage declines in the value of collateral.
In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into transactions with sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities. Unfavorable economic or political conditions, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, changes in oil prices, social instability and changes in government or monetary policies could impact the operating budgets or credit ratings of these government entities and expose us to credit risk.
We also have concentrations of credit risk with respect to our consumer real estate, auto, consumer credit card and commercial real estate portfolios, which represent a significant percentage of our overall credit portfolio. Additionally, decreases in home price valuations or commercial real estate valuations in certain markets where we have large concentrations, including as a result of climate change or natural disasters (e.g., rising sea levels, hurricanes and fires), as well as more broadly within the U.S. or globally, could result in increased defaults, delinquencies or credit loss. For more information, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management in the MD&A on page 54.
Furthermore, our commercial portfolios include exposures to certain industries, including asset managers and funds, real estate, capital goods and finance companies. For more information, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management in

-----------------

9 Bank of America

the MD&A on page 60. Economic weaknesses, adverse business conditions, market disruptions, rising interest or capitalization rates, the collapse of speculative bubbles, greater volatility in areas where we have concentrated credit risk or deterioration in real estate values or household incomes may cause us to experience a decrease in cash flow and higher credit losses in either our consumer or commercial portfolios or cause us to write down the value of certain assets.
Liquidity disruptions in the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of our positions, leading to increased concentrations, which could increase the credit and market risk associated with our positions, as well as increase our risk-weighted assets.
For more information on our credit risk and credit risk management policies and procedures, see Credit Risk Management in the MD&A on page 53, Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles, Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Note 6 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
If the U.S. housing market weakens or home prices decline, our consumer loan portfolios, credit quality, credit losses, representations and warranties exposures and earnings may be adversely affected.
While U.S. home prices continued to generally increase in 2019, the rate of increase has slowed compared to recent periods. We remain conscious of geographic markets where housing price growth has slowed or decreased and other geographic markets where housing prices have declined, as further declines in future periods may negatively impact the demand for many of our products. Additionally, our mortgage loan production volume is generally influenced by the rate of growth in residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the residential mortgage market, both of which may be adversely affected by rising interest rates. Conditions in the U.S. housing market during the most recent financial crisis resulted in both significant write-downs of asset values in several asset classes, notably mortgage-backed securities, and exposure to monolines. If the U.S. housing market were to weaken, the value of real estate could decline, which could result in increased credit losses and delinquent servicing expenses and negatively affect our representations and warranties exposures, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected risks and potential losses.
We are party to a large number of derivatives transactions that may expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated and vice versa, may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account or anticipated in the development, structuring or pricing of a derivative instrument. Certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements provide that upon the occurrence of certain specified events, such as a change in the credit rating of a particular Bank of America entity or entities, we may be required to provide additional collateral or take other remedial actions and could experience increased difficulty obtaining funding or hedging risks. In some cases our counterparties may have the right to terminate or otherwise diminish our rights under these contracts or agreements.
We are also a member of various central counterparties (CCPs) in part due to regulatory requirements for mandatory clearing of derivative transactions, which potentially increases our credit risk exposures to CCPs. In the event that one or more members of the CCP defaults on its obligations, we may be required to pay a portion

of any losses incurred by the CCP as a result of that default. A CCP may modify, in its discretion, the margin we are required to post, which could mean unexpected and increased exposure to the CCP. As a clearing member, we are exposed to the risk of non-performance by our clients for which we clear transactions, which may not be covered by available collateral. Additionally, any default by a significant market participant may result in further risk and potential losses.
For more information on our derivatives exposure, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Geopolitical
We are subject to numerous political, economic, market, reputational, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We do business throughout the world including in emerging markets. Economic or geopolitical stress in one or more countries could have a negative impact regionally or globally, resulting in, among other things, market volatility, reduced market value and economic output. Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, financial, social or judicial instability, changes in government leadership, including as a result of electoral outcomes or otherwise, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, high inflation, natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, capital controls, currency redenomination risk, exchange controls, unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, oil price fluctuations and changes in legislation. Additionally, protectionist trade policies and continued trade tensions between the U.S. and important trading partners, particularly China and the EU, including the risk that tariffs continue to rise and other restrictive actions are taken that weigh heavily on regional trade volumes and domestic demand through falling business sentiment and lower consumer confidence, could adversely affect our businesses and revenues. These risks are especially elevated in emerging markets.
A number of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business have been or may be negatively impacted by slowing growth or recessionary conditions, market volatility and/or political unrest. In Europe, the political and economic environment remains challenging due to slowing GDP growth, debt concerns of certain EU countries and elevated recessionary risks, including in Germany and the U.K. The current degree of European political and economic uncertainty could increase and create additional market volatility and negatively impact our business and results of operations. Significant market volatility and geopolitical unrest could also result from ongoing uncertainty related to the U.K.']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[' personal or account information. Our business relies on effective access management and the secure collection, processing, transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary, personal and other information in our computer and data management systems and networks, and in the computer and data management systems and networks of third parties. In addition, to access our network, products and services, our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties increasingly use personal mobile devices or computing devices that are outside of our network and control environments and are subject to their own cybersecurity risks.
We, our employees and customers, regulators and other third parties are regularly the target of cyber attacks and are likely to continue to be the target of cyber attacks. These cyber attacks are pervasive and evolving and include computer viruses, malicious or destructive code (such as ransomware), phishing attacks, denial of service or information or other security breach tactics that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction or theft of confidential, proprietary and other information, including intellectual property, of ours, our employees, our customers or of third parties, damages to systems, or otherwise material disruption to our or our customers’ or other third parties’ network access or business

operations, both domestically and internationally. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents and develop our capabilities to respond and recover. Cyber threats are rapidly changing, and despite substantial efforts to protect the integrity of our systems and implement controls, processes, policies and other protective measures, we may not be able to anticipate cyber attacks or information or security breaches, nor may we be able to implement effective preventive or defensive measures to address such attacks or breaches. Even the most advanced internal control environment is vulnerable to compromise. Internal access management failures could result in the compromise or unauthorized exposure of confidential data. Targeted social engineering attacks are becoming more sophisticated and are extremely difficult to prevent.
Our cybersecurity risk and exposure remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature and pervasiveness of cyber threats, our prominent size and scale, our role in the financial services industry and the broader economy. The financial services industry is particularly at risk because of the proliferation of new and emerging technologies, including third-party financial data aggregators, and the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions. For example, our plans to continue our use of automation, artificial intelligence and robotics, increase our internet and mobile banking products, including mobile payment and other web- and cloud-based products and applications, and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, increase our cybersecurity risks and exposure.
Additionally, our continuous transmission of sensitive information to, and storage of such information by, third parties, including our vendors and regulators, our geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, threats of cyber terrorism, external extremist parties, including state-sponsored actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends, and system and customer account updates and conversions result in heightened risk exposure. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, intellectual property and proprietary information, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a critical priority. Cybersecurity risks have also significantly increased in recent years in part due to the increasingly sophisticated activities of organized crime groups, hackers, terrorist organizations, hostile foreign governments, disgruntled employees or vendors, activists and other external parties, including those involved in corporate espionage. The techniques used in cyber attacks change frequently, and these attacks or ensuing security breaches could persist for an extended period of time before being detected. It could take considerable additional time for us to determine the scope, extent, amount, and type of information compromised, at which time the impact on the Corporation and measures to recover and restore to a business as usual state may be difficult to assess.
We also face indirect technology, cybersecurity and operational risks relating to the customers, clients and other third parties, including their downstream service providers and the financial services industry, with whom we do business, upon whom we rely to facilitate or enable our business activities or upon whom our customers rely. Such third parties also include financial counterparties, financial data aggregators, financial intermediaries, such as clearing agents, exchanges and clearing

 ------------------

 Bank of America 12

houses, vendors, regulators, providers of critical infrastructure, such as internet access and electrical power, and retailers for whom we process transactions. As a result of increasing consolidation, interdependence and complexity of financial entities and technology systems, a technology failure, cyber attack or other information or security breach that significantly degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities or third-party or their downstream service providers could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including us. This consolidation, interconnectivity and complexity increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and industry-wide bases, as disparate systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any technology failure, cyber attack or other information or security breach, termination or constraint of any third party, including their downstream service providers, the financial services industry infrastructure or financial data aggregators, could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to conduct day-to-day business activities, effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, result in the misappropriation or destruction of the personal, proprietary or confidential information of our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties or result in fraudulent or unauthorized transactions. Further, any such event may not be disclosed to us in a timely manner.
Although to date we have not experienced any material losses or other material consequences relating to technology failure, cyber attacks or other information or security breaches, whether directed at us or third parties, there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures in place to monitor and mitigate the risks of cyber threats will be sufficient and that we will not suffer material losses or consequences in the future. Cyber attacks or other information or security breaches, whether directed at us or third parties, may result in significant lost revenue, give rise to losses or have other negative consequences. Furthermore, the public perception that a cyber attack on our systems has been successful, whether or not this perception is correct, may damage our reputation with customers and third parties with whom we do business. Although we maintain cyber insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate.
Also, successful penetration or circumvention of system security could result in negative consequences, including loss of customers and business opportunities, the withdrawal of customer deposits, prolonged computer and network outages resulting in disruptions to our critical business operations and customer services, misappropriation or destruction of our intellectual property, proprietary information or confidential information and/or the confidential, proprietary or personal information of certain parties, such as our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties, or damage to their computers or systems. This could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws in the U.S. and abroad, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, loss of confidence in our security measures, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, additional compliance costs and our internal controls or disclosure controls being rendered ineffective. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.
Our mortgage loan repurchase obligations or claims from third parties could result in additional losses.
We and our legacy companies have sold significant amounts of residential mortgage loans. In connection with these sales, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies made various

representations and warranties, breaches of which may result in a requirement that we repurchase the mortgage loans, or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to counterparties. At December 31, 2019, we had $10.7 billion of unresolved repurchase claims, net of duplicate claims and excluding claims where the statute of limitations has expired without litigation being commenced.
At December 31, 2019, our liability for obligations under representations and warranties exposures was $1.8 billion. We also have an estimated range of possible loss (RPL) for representations and warranties exposures that is combined with the litigation RPL, which we disclose in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The recorded liability and estimated RPL are based on currently available information, significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will reach future settlements or, if it does, that the terms of past settlements can be relied upon to predict the terms of future settlements. Future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of our recorded liability and estimated RPL, and such losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
Additionally, our recorded liability for representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated RPL do not consider certain losses related to servicing, including foreclosure and related costs, fraud, indemnity or claims (including for residential mortgage-backed securities) related to securities law. Losses with respect to one or more of these matters could be material to our results of operations.
For more information about our representations and warranties exposure, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations – Representations and Warranties in the MD&A on page 42 and Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer for residential mortgage securitizations and residential mortgage loans owned by other entities, along with other losses we could incur in our capacity as servicer, could harm our reputation, increase servicing costs or adversely impact our results of operations.
We and our legacy companies service mortgage loans on behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which could cause us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may have liability for any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, for any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our duties. If any such breach was found to have occurred, it may harm our reputation, increase our servicing costs or adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, with respect to foreclosures, we may incur costs or losses due to irregularities in the underlying documentation, or if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower or overturned by a court because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process. We may also incur costs or losses relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in processing documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosure.
Changes in the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets could result in changes to our business operations and may adversely impact our business.
During 2019, we sold approximately $3.5 billion of loans to Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FHLMC). Each is currently in a conservatorship with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing

------------------

13 Bank of America

Finance Agency (FHFA), acting as conservator. In September 2019, the Treasury Department published a proposal to recapitalize FNMA and FHLMC and remove them from conservatorship as well as reduce GSEs']:
Note 12 Repurchases of Common Stock 92

['s exit from the EU. The cumulative effect of all of the legislation and regulations on our business, operations and profitability remains uncertain. This uncertainty necessitates that in our business planning we make certain assumptions with respect to the scope and requirements of the proposed rules. If these assumptions prove incorrect, we could be subject to increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs as well as potential reputational harm. In addition, U.S. and international regulatory initiatives may overlap, and non-U.S. regulations and initiatives may be inconsistent or may conflict with current or proposed U.S. regulations, which could lead to compliance risks and increased costs.
Our regulators’ prudential and supervisory authority gives them broad power and discretion to direct our actions, and they have assumed an active oversight, inspection and investigatory role across the financial services industry. However, regulatory focus is not limited to laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industry specifically, but also extends to other significant laws and regulations that apply across industries and jurisdictions,
including those related to data management and privacy, anti-money laundering, anti-corruption and economic sanctions. Additionally, we are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. and abroad, including GDPR and CCPA, regarding compliance with our privacy policies and the disclosure, collection, use, sharing and safeguarding of personal identifiable information of certain parties, such as our employees, customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties, the violation of which could result in litigation, regulatory fines and enforcement actions. Additionally, we will likely be subject to new and evolving data privacy laws in the U.S. and abroad, which could result in additional costs of compliance, litigation, regulatory fines and enforcement actions.
As part of their enforcement authority, our regulators and other government authorities have the authority to, among other things, assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties or restitution and issue cease and desist or removal orders and initiate injunctive actions. The amounts paid by us and other financial institutions to settle proceedings or investigations have, in some instances, been substantial and may increase. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such resolutions, which could have significant consequences, including reputational harm, loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access capital markets, and the

 ------------------

 Bank of America 14

inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time.
The Corporation and the conduct of its employees and representatives are subject to regulatory scrutiny across jurisdictions. Additionally, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of our operations and the aggressiveness of the regulatory environment worldwide also means that a single event or practice or a series of related events or practices may give rise to a significant number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions. Additionally, actions by other members of the financial services industry related to business activities in which we participate may result in investigations by regulators or other government authorities. Responding to inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and proceedings, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the attention of our senior management from our business. The outcome of such proceedings, which may last a number of years, may be difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings.
We are currently subject to the terms of settlements, orders and agreements that we have entered into with government entities and regulatory authorities and may become subject to additional settlements, orders or agreements in the future. Such settlements, orders or agreements can impose significant operational and compliance costs on us as they typically require us to enhance our procedures and controls, expand our risk and control functions within our lines of business, invest in technology and hire significant numbers of additional risk, control and compliance personnel. Moreover, if we fail to meet the requirements of the regulatory settlements, orders or agreements to which we are subject, or, more generally, fail to maintain risk and control procedures and processes that meet the heightened standards established by our regulators and other government authorities, we could be required to enter into further settlements, orders or agreements and pay additional fines, penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions on our businesses.
While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to identify, assess, monitor and report on applicable laws, policies and procedures, compliance risks will continue to exist, particularly as we adapt to new and evolving laws, rules and regulations. Additionally, changing U.S. fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies arising from potential changes to the U.S. presidential administration and Congress result in ongoing regulatory uncertainties. There is no guarantee that our risk management and compliance programs will be consistently executed to successfully manage compliance risk. We also rely upon third parties who may expose us to compliance and legal risk. Future legislative or regulatory actions, and any required changes to our business or operations, or those of third parties, including their downstream providers, upon whom we rely, resulting from such developments and actions could result in a significant loss of revenue, impose additional compliance and other costs or otherwise reduce our profitability, limit the products and services that we offer or our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, require us to dispose of or curtail certain businesses, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. In addition, legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time that may result in fines, regulatory sanctions, penalties, equitable relief and changes to our business practices. As a result, we are and will continue to be subject to heightened

compliance and operating costs that could adversely affect our results of operations.
We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks from potential liability arising from lawsuits and regulatory and government action.
We face significant legal risks in our business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages, penalties and fines claimed in litigation and other disputes, and regulatory and government proceedings against us and other financial institutions continue to be high. Greater than expected litigation and investigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or government action against us could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition, including liquidity, and results of operations, and/or cause significant reputational harm to us. We continue to experience a significant volume of litigation and other disputes, including claims for contractual indemnification with counterparties regarding relative rights and responsibilities. Consumers, clients and other counterparties continue to be litigious. Among other things, financial institutions, including us, continue to be the subject of claims alleging anti-competitive conduct with respect to various products and markets, including U.S. antitrust class actions claiming joint and several liability for treble damages. In addition, regulatory authorities have had a supervisory focus on enforcement, including in connection with alleged violations of law and customer harm. For example, U.S. regulators and government agencies have pursued claims against financial institutions under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act, False Claims Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair Housing Act and antitrust laws. Such claims may carry significant and, in certain cases, treble damages. The global environment of extensive regulation, regulatory compliance burdens, litigation and regulatory and government enforcement, combined with uncertainty related to the continually evolving regulatory environment, may affect operational and compliance costs and risks, which may limit or cease our ability to continue providing certain products and services.
Additionally, misconduct by employees, including improper or illegal conduct, or other unfair, deceptive, abusive or discriminatory business practices, can cause significant reputational harm as well as litigation and regulatory government enforcement action.
For more information on litigation and regulatory matters, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
U.S. federal banking agencies may require us to increase our regulatory capital, TLAC, long-term debt or liquidity requirements, which could result in the need to issue additional qualifying securities or to take other actions, such as to sell company assets.
We are subject to U.S. regulatory capital and liquidity rules. These rules, among other things, establish minimum requirements to qualify as a well-capitalized institution. If any of our subsidiary insured depository institutions fails to maintain its status as well capitalized under the applicable regulatory capital rules, the Federal Reserve will require us to agree to bring the insured depository institution back to well-capitalized status. For the duration of such an agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose restrictions on our activities. If we were to fail to enter into or comply with such an agreement, or fail to comply with the terms of such agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose more severe restrictions on our activities, including requiring us to cease and desist activities permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
Capital and liquidity requirements are frequently introduced and amended. It is possible that regulators may increase regulatory capital requirements including TLAC and long-term debt requirements, change how regulatory capital is calculated or

------------------

15 Bank of America

increase liquidity requirements. Our G-SIB surcharge may increase from current estimates, and we are also subject to a countercyclical capital buffer which, while currently set at zero, may be increased by regulators. In 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposal to implement a stress capital buffer into its capital requirements, which may increase our regulatory capital requirements, if adopted. A significant component of regulatory capital ratios is calculating our risk-weighted assets and our leverage exposure, which may increase. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has also revised several key methodologies for measuring risk-weighted assets, including a standardized approach for credit risk, standardized approach for operational risk and constraints on the use of internal models, as well as a capital floor based on the revised standardized approaches. U.S. banking regulators may update the U.S. Basel 3 rules to incorporate the Basel Committee revisions.
Additionally, Net Stable Funding Ratio requirements have been proposed, which would apply to us and our subsidiary depository institutions, and target longer term liquidity risk. While the impact of these proposals remains uncertain, they could have a negative impact on our capital and liquidity positions. In 2019, U.S. banking regulators published a final rule outlining a standardized approach for counterparty credit risk, which updates the calculation of the exposure amount for derivative contracts under the regulatory capital rule. The final rule will be effective on April 1, 2020, with a mandatory compliance date of January 1, 2022. This rule could have a negative impact on our capital position upon final implementation.
As part of its annual CCAR, the Federal Reserve conducts stress testing on parts of our business using hypothetical economic scenarios prepared by the Federal Reserve. Those scenarios may affect our CCAR stress test results, which may have an effect on our projected regulatory capital amounts in the annual CCAR submission, including the CCAR capital plan affecting our dividends and stock repurchases. Such ability to return capital to our shareholders substantially depends on the Federal Reserve']:
Note 14 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 84

['s exit from the European Union; the impact of any future federal government shutdown and uncertainty regarding the federal government’s debt limit; the impact of natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, military conflict, terrorism or other geopolitical events; and other matters.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) are incorporated by reference into the MD&A. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Throughout the MD&A, the Corporation uses certain acronyms and abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary.

Executive Summary
Business Overview
The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, “the Corporation,” “we,” “us” and “our” may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation’s subsidiaries or affiliates. Our principal executive offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking, Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank of America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA) charter. At December 31, 2019, the Corporation had $2.4 trillion in assets and a headcount of approximately 208,000 employees.
As of December 31, 2019, we served clients through operations across the U.S., its territories and approximately 35 countries. Our retail banking footprint covers approximately 90 percent of the U.S. population, and we serve approximately 66 million consumer and small business clients with approximately 4,300 retail financial centers, approximately 16,800 ATMs, and leading digital banking platforms (www.bankofamerica.com) with more than 38 million active users, including over 29 million active mobile users. We offer industry-leading support to approximately

 ------------------

 Bank of America 22

three million small business owners. Our wealth management businesses, with client balances of $3.0 trillion, provide tailored solutions to meet client needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world.

Recent Developments
Capital Management
During 2019, we repurchased $28.1 billion of common stock pursuant to the Corporation']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 89 ------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
