================================================================================
CIK: 0000764622
Company Name: PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORP
Filing Date: 2018-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-30 16:08:47
================================================================================

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

INTRODUCTION

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Financial Statements and APS’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in Item 8 of this report.  For information on factors that may cause our actual future results to differ from those we currently seek or anticipate, see “Forward-Looking Statements” at the front of this report and “Risk Factors” in Item 1A.

OVERVIEW

Pinnacle West owns all of the outstanding common stock of APS.  APS is a vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the state of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona.  APS currently accounts for essentially all of our revenues and earnings.

Areas of Business Focus

Operational Performance, Reliability and Recent Developments.

Nuclear. APS operates and is a joint owner of Palo Verde.  Palo Verde experienced strong performance throughout 2017.  The April and October scheduled refueling outages were each completed in 30 days.  During the peak summer demand season, its capacity factor was 98.9%, and the total year capacity factor was 93.8%. For additional information, see “Business of Arizona Public Service Company - Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Generation Facilities - Nuclear.”

Coal and Related Environmental Matters and Transactions.  APS is a joint owner of three coal-fired power plants and acts as operating agent for two of the plants.  APS is focused on the impacts on its coal fleet that may result from increased regulation and potential legislation concerning GHG emissions.  On August 3, 2015, EPA finalized a rule to limit carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants (the "Clean Power Plan").  On October 10, 2017, EPA issued a proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan. On December 18, 2017, EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking through which EPA is soliciting comments as to potential replacements for the Clean Power Plan that would be consistent with EPA's current legal interpretation of the Clean Air Act. APS will monitor these proceedings to assess whether or how any future proposed regulations of carbon emissions from existing EGUs would affect APS. See "Business - Environmental Matters - Climate Change - Regulatory Initiatives" for additional information on the current status of EPA's carbon pollution standards for EGUs. APS continually analyzes its long-range capital management plans to assess the potential effects of these changes, understanding that any resulting regulation and legislation could impact the economic viability of certain plants, as well as the willingness or ability of power plant participants to continue participation in such plants.

49

Table of Contents

Cholla

On September 11, 2014, APS announced that it would close its 260 MW Unit 2 at Cholla and cease burning coal at the other APS-owned units (Units 1 and 3) at the plant by the mid-2020s, if EPA approves a compromise proposal offered by APS to meet required environmental and emissions standards and rules. On April 14, 2015, the ACC approved APS's plan to retire Unit 2, without expressing any view on the future recoverability of APS's remaining investment in the Unit, which was later addressed in the 2017 Settlement Agreement. (See Note 3 for details related to the resulting cost recovery.) APS believes that the environmental benefits of this proposal are greater in the long-term than the benefits that would have resulted from adding emissions control equipment. APS closed Unit 2 on October 1, 2015. In early 2017, EPA approved a final rule incorporating APS's compromise proposal, which took effect for Cholla on April 26, 2017. For additional information, see "Business of Arizona Public Service Company - Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities - Cholla."

Four Corners

Asset Purchase Agreement and Coal Supply Matters.  On December 30, 2013, APS purchased SCE’s 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. The final purchase price for the interest was approximately $182 million. In connection with APS’s prior general retail rate case with the ACC, the ACC reserved the right to review the prudence of the Four Corners transaction for cost recovery purposes upon the closing of the transaction. On December 23, 2014, the ACC approved rate adjustments related to APS’s acquisition of SCE’s interest in Four Corners resulting in a revenue increase of $57.1 million on an annual basis. This decision was appealed and, on September 26, 2017, the Court of Appeals affirmed the ACC's decision on the Four Corners rate adjustment.

Concurrently with the closing of the SCE transaction described above, BHP Billiton, the parent company of BNCC, the coal supplier and operator of the mine that served Four Corners, transferred its ownership of BNCC to NTEC, a company formed by the Navajo Nation to own the mine and develop other energy projects. Also occurring concurrently with the closing, the Four Corners’ co-owners executed the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement for the supply of coal to Four Corners from July 2016 through 2031. El Paso, a 7% owner in Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners, did not sign the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement. Under the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement, APS agreed to assume the 7% shortfall obligation. (See Note 10 for a discussion of a pending arbitration related to the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement.) On February 17, 2015, APS and El Paso entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS, or an affiliate of APS, of El Paso’s 7% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. 4CA purchased the El Paso interest on July 6, 2016. The purchase price was immaterial in amount, and 4CA assumed El Paso's reclamation and decommissioning obligations associated with the 7% interest.
NTEC had the option to purchase the 7% interest within a certain timeframe pursuant to an option granted to NTEC. On December 29, 2015, NTEC provided notice of its intent to exercise the option. The purchase did not occur during the originally contemplated timeframe. The parties are currently in discussions as to the future of the option transaction.

The 2016 Coal Supply Agreement contains alternate pricing terms for the 7% shortfall obligations in the event NTEC does not purchase the interest. At this time, since NTEC has not yet purchased the 7% interest, the alternate pricing provisions are applicable to 4CA as the holder of the 7% interest. These terms include a formula under which NTEC must make certain payments to 4CA for reimbursement of operations and maintenance costs and a specified rate of return, offset by revenue generated by 4CA’s power sales. Such payments are due to 4CA at the end of each calendar year. A $10 million payment was due to 4CA at December 31, 2017, which NTEC satisfied by directing to 4CA a prepayment from APS of a portion of a future mine reclamation obligation. The balance of the amount under this formula at December 31, 2017 is

50

Table of Contents

approximately $20 million, which is due to 4CA at December 31, 2018. In future years there may be similar payments due from NTEC to 4CA under this formula. 4CA believes NTEC should continue to satisfy its contractual obligations related to these payments; however, if NTEC fails to meet its contractual obligations when due, 4CA will consider appropriate measures and potential impacts to the Company's financial statements.

Lease Extension.  APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation, which extends the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to 2041.  The Navajo Nation approved these amendments in March 2011.  The effectiveness of the amendments also required the approval of the DOI, as did a related federal rights-of-way grant.  A federal environmental review was undertaken as part of the DOI review process, and culminated in the issuance by DOI of a record of decision on July 17, 2015 justifying the agency action extending the life of the plant and the adjacent mine.

On April 20, 2016, several environmental groups filed a lawsuit against OSM and other federal agencies in the District of Arizona in connection with their issuance of the approvals that extended the life of Four Corners and the adjacent mine.  The lawsuit alleges that these federal agencies violated both the ESA and NEPA in providing the federal approvals necessary to extend operations at the Four Corners Power Plant and the adjacent Navajo Mine past July 6, 2016.  APS filed a motion to intervene in the proceedings, which was granted on August 3, 2016.

On September 15, 2016, NTEC, the company that owns the adjacent mine, filed a motion to intervene for the purpose of dismissing the lawsuit based on NTEC's tribal sovereign immunity. On September 11, 2017, the Arizona District Court issued an order granting NTEC's motion, dismissing the litigation with prejudice, and terminating the proceedings. On November 9, 2017, the environmental group plaintiffs appealed the district court order dismissing their lawsuit. We cannot predict whether this appeal will be successful and, if it is successful, the outcome of further district court proceedings.

For additional information, see "Business of Arizona Public Service Company - Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Generation Facilities - Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities - Four Corners."

Navajo Plant

The co-owners of the Navajo Plant and the Navajo Nation agreed that the Navajo Plant will remain in operation until December 2019 under the existing plant lease. The co-owners and the Navajo Nation executed a lease extension on November 29, 2017 that will allow for decommissioning activities to begin after the plant ceases operations in December 2019. Various stakeholders including regulators, tribal representatives, the plant's coal supplier and DOI have been meeting to determine if an alternate solution can be reached that would permit continued operation of the plant beyond 2019. Although we cannot predict whether any alternate plans will be found that would be acceptable to all of the stakeholders and feasible to implement, we believe it is probable that the Navajo Plant will cease operations in December 2019.

APS is currently recovering depreciation and a return on the net book value of its interest in the Navajo Plant over its previously estimated life through 2026. APS will seek continued recovery in rates for the book value of its remaining investment in the plant (see Note 3 for details related to the resulting regulatory asset) plus a return on the net book value as well as other costs related to retirement and closure, which are still being assessed and may be material.

On February 14, 2017, the ACC opened a docket titled "ACC Investigation Concerning the Future of the Navajo Generating Station" with the stated goal of engaging stakeholders and negotiating a sustainable

51

Table of Contents

pathway for the Navajo Plant to continue operating in some form after December 2019. APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding.

For additional information, see "Business of Arizona Public Service Company - Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Generation Facilities - Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities - Navajo Plant."

Natural Gas.  APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, including Ocotillo. Ocotillo is a 330 MW 4-unit gas plant located in the metropolitan Phoenix area.  In early 2014, APS announced a project to modernize the plant, which involves retiring two older 110 MW steam units, adding five 102 MW combustion turbines and maintaining two existing 55 MW combustion turbines.  In total, this increases the capacity of the site by 290 MW, to 620 MW, with completion targeted by summer 2019.  (See Note 3 for details of the rate recovery in our 2017 Rate Case Decision.) For additional information, see "Business of Arizona Public Service Company - Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Generation Facilities - Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities - Natural Gas and Oil-Fueled Generating Facilities."

Transmission and Delivery.  APS is working closely with regulators to identify and plan for transmission needs that continue to support system reliability, access to markets and renewable energy development.  The capital expenditures table presented in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section below includes new APS transmission projects, along with other transmission costs for upgrades and replacements.  APS is also working to establish and expand advanced grid technologies throughout its service territory to provide long-term benefits both to APS and its customers.  APS is strategically deploying a variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better manage their energy usage, minimize system outage durations and frequency, enable customer choice for new customer sited technologies, and facilitate greater cost savings to APS through improved reliability and the automation of certain distribution functions.

Energy Imbalance Market. In 2015, APS and the CAISO, the operator for the majority of California's transmission grid, signed an agreement for APS to begin participation in EIM. APS's participation in the EIM began on October 1, 2016.  The EIM allows for rebalancing supply and demand in 15-minute blocks with dispatching every five minutes before the energy is needed, instead of the traditional one hour blocks.  APS expects that its participation in EIM will lower its fuel costs, improve visibility and situational awareness for system operations in the Western Interconnection power grid, and improve integration of APS’s renewable resources.

Regulatory Matters

Rate Matters.  APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain its financial health.  APS’s retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by FERC.  See Note 3 for information on APS’s FERC rates.

On June 1, 2016, APS filed an application with the ACC for an annual increase in retail base rates of $165.9 million. This amount excluded amounts that were then collected on customer bills through adjustor mechanisms. The application requested that some of the balances in these adjustor accounts (aggregating to approximately $267.6 million as of December 31, 2015) be transferred into base rates through the ratemaking process. This transfer would not have had an incremental effect on average customer bills. The average annual customer bill impact of APS’s request was an increase of 5.74% (the average annual bill impact for a typical APS residential customer was 7.96%). See Note 3 for details regarding the principal provisions of APS's application.

On March 27, 2017, a majority of the stakeholders in the general retail rate case, including the ACC Staff, the Residential Utility Consumer Office, limited income advocates and private rooftop solar

52

Table of Contents

organizations signed the 2017 Settlement Agreement and filed it with the ACC. The average annual customer bill impact under the 2017 Settlement Agreement is an increase of 3.28% (the average annual bill impact for a typical APS residential customer is 4.54%). (See Note 3 for details of the 2017 Settlement Agreement.)

On August 15, 2017, the ACC approved (by a vote of 4-1), the 2017 Settlement Agreement without material modifications.  On August 18, 2017, the ACC issued a final written Opinion and Order reflecting its decision in APS’s general retail rate case (the "2017 Rate Case Decision"), which is subject to requests for rehearing and potential appeal. The new rates went into effect on August 19, 2017. On August 20, 2017, Commissioner Burns filed a special action petition in the Arizona Supreme Court seeking to vacate the ACC's order approving the 2017 Settlement Agreement so that alleged issues of disqualification and bias on the part of the other Commissioners can be fully investigated.   APS opposed the petition, and on October 17, 2017, the Arizona Supreme Court declined to accept jurisdiction over Commissioner Burns’ special action petition.

On October 17, 2017, Warren Woodward (an intervener in APS's general retail rate case) filed a Notice of Appeal in the Arizona Court of Appeals, Division One. The notice raises a single issue related to the application of certain rate schedules to new APS residential customers after May 1, 2018. Mr. Woodward filed a second notice of appeal on November 13, 2017 challenging APS’s $5 per month automated metering infrastructure opt-out program. Mr. Woodward’s two appeals have been consolidated and APS has filed a motion to intervene. APS cannot predict the outcome of this consolidated appeal but does not believe it will have a material impact.

On January 3, 2018, an APS customer filed a petition with the ACC that was determined by the ACC Staff to be a complaint filed pursuant to Arizona Revised Statute §40-246 (the “Complaint”) and not a request for rehearing. Arizona Revised Statute §40-246 requires the ACC to hold a hearing regarding any complaint alleging that a public service corporation is in violation of any commission order or that the rates being charged are not just and reasonable if the complaint is signed by at least twenty-five customers of the public service corporation. The Complaint alleged that APS is “in violation of commission order” [sic]. On February 13, 2018, the complainant filed an amended Complaint alleging that the rates and charges in the 2017 Rate Case Decision are not just and reasonable.  The complainant is requesting that the ACC hold a hearing on her amended Complaint to determine if the average bill impact on residential customers of the rates and charges approved in the 2017 Rate Case Decision is greater than 4.54% (the average annual bill impact for a typical APS residential customer estimated by APS), and if so, what effect the alleged greater bill impact has on APS's revenues and the overall reasonableness and justness of APS's rates and charges, in order to determine if there is sufficient evidence to warrant a full-scale rate hearing.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

APS has several recovery mechanisms in place that provide more timely recovery to APS of its fuel and transmission costs, and costs associated with the promotion and implementation of its demand side management and renewable energy efforts and customer programs.  These mechanisms are described more fully below and in Note 3.

SCR Cost Recovery. On December 29, 2017, in accordance with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, APS filed a Notice of Intent to file its SCR Rate Rider to permit recovery of costs associated with the installation of SCR equipment at Four Corners Units 4 and 5.  APS intends to file the SCR Rate Rider in April 2018. Consistent with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the rate rider filing will be narrow in scope and will address only costs associated with this specific environmental compliance equipment. Also, as provided for in the 2017 Rate Case Decision, APS will request that the rate rider become effective no later than January 1, 2019.

Renewable Energy.  The ACC approved the RES in 2006.  The renewable energy requirement is 8% of retail electric sales in 2018 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025.  In APS’s 2009 general retail rate case settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed the RES standards, committing to use APS’s best efforts

53

Table of Contents

to have 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources in service by year-end 2015, in addition to its RES renewable resource commitments.  APS met its settlement commitment and overall RES target for 2017. A component of the RES targets development of distributed energy systems. For additional information, see “Business of Arizona Public Service Company-Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Current and Future Resources-Renewable Energy Standard.”

On July 1, 2016, APS filed its 2017 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of approximately $150 million. APS’s budget request included additional funding to process the high volume of residential rooftop solar interconnection requests and also requested a permanent waiver of the residential distributed energy requirement for 2017 contained in the RES rules. On April 7, 2017, APS filed an amended 2017 RES Implementation Plan and updated budget request which included the revenue neutral transfer of specific revenue requirements into base rates in accordance with the 2017 Settlement Agreement.  On August 15, 2017, the ACC approved the 2017 RES Implementation Plan.

On June 30, 2017, APS filed its 2018 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of approximately $90 million.  APS’s budget request supports existing approved projects and commitments and includes the anticipated transfer of specific revenue requirements into base rates in accordance with the 2017 Settlement Agreement and also requests a permanent waiver of the residential distributed energy requirement for 2018 contained in the RES rules. APS's 2018 RES budget request is lower than the 2017 RES budget due in part to a certain portion of the RES being collected by APS in base rates rather than through the RES adjustor.

On November 20, 2017, APS filed an updated 2018 RES budget to include budget adjustments for APS Solar Communities (formerly known as AZ Sun II), which was approved as part of the 2017 Rate Case Decision. APS Solar Communities is a three-year program requiring APS to spend $10-15 million in capital costs each year to install utility-owned distributed generation ("DG") systems for low to moderate income residential homes, buildings of non-profit entities, Title I schools and rural government facilities. The 2017 Rate Case Decision provided that all operations and maintenance expenses, property taxes, marketing and advertising expenses, and the capital carrying costs for this program will be recovered through the RES. The ACC has not yet ruled on APS's 2018 RES Implementation Plan.

In September 2016, the ACC initiated a proceeding which will examine the possible modernization and expansion of the RES.  The ACC noted that many of the provisions of the original rule may no longer be appropriate, and the underlying economic assumptions associated with the rule have changed dramatically.  The proceeding will review such issues as the rapidly declining cost of solar generation, an increased interest in community solar projects, energy storage options, and the decline in fossil fuel generation due to stringent EPA regulations.  The proceeding will also examine the feasibility of increasing the standard to 30% of retail sales by 2030, in contrast to the current standard of 15% of retail sales by 2025.  On January 30, 2018, ACC Commissioner Tobin proposed a new standard in this proceeding which would broaden the RES to include a series of energy reform policies tied to clean energy sources. The proposal would rename the RES to the Clean Resource Energy Standard and Tariff ("CREST").  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. See Note 3 for more information on the RES and the CREST.

Demand Side Management.  In December 2009, Arizona regulators placed an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy.  The ACC initiated an Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Electric Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020.  The 22% figure represents the cumulative reduction in future energy usage through 2020 attributable to energy efficiency initiatives.  This standard became effective on January 1, 2011.

54

Table of Contents

On June 1, 2016, APS filed its 2017 DSM Implementation Plan, in which APS proposed programs and measures that specifically focus on reducing peak demand, shifting load to off-peak periods and educating customers about strategies to manage their energy and demand.  The requested budget in the 2017 DSM Implementation Plan is $62.6 million.  On January 27, 2017, APS filed an updated and modified 2017 DSM Implementation Plan that incorporated the proposed $4 million Residential Demand Response, Energy Storage and Load Management Program that was filed with the ACC on December 5, 2016 and requested that the budget for the 2017 DSM Implementation Plan be increased to $66.6 million. On August 15, 2017, the ACC approved the amended 2017 DSM Implementation Plan.

On September 1, 2017, APS filed its 2018 DSM Implementation Plan, which proposes modifications to the demand side management portfolio to better meet system and customer needs by focusing on peak demand reductions, storage, load shifting and demand response programs in addition to traditional energy savings measures. The 2018 DSM Implementation Plan seeks a reduced requested budget of $52.6 million and requests a waiver of the Electric Energy Efficiency Standard for 2018. On November 14, 2017, APS filed an amended 2018 DSM Implementation Plan, which revised the allocations between budget items to address customer participation levels, but kept the overall budget at $52.6 million. See Note 3 for more information on demand side management.

Tax Expense Adjustor Mechanism and FERC Tax Filing. As part of the 2017 Settlement Agreement, the parties agreed to a rate adjustment mechanism to address potential federal income tax reform and enable the pass-through of certain income tax effects to customers. On December 22, 2017 the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) was enacted.  This legislation made significant changes to the federal income tax laws including a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.

On January 8, 2018, APS filed an application with the ACC requesting that the TEAM be implemented in two steps. The first addresses the change in the marginal federal tax rate from 35% to 21% resulting from the Tax Act and, if approved, would reduce rates by $119.1 million annually through an equal cents per kWh credit. APS asked that this decrease become effective February 1, 2018. On February 22, 2018, the ACC approved the reduction of rates by $119.1 million annually through an equal cents per kWh credit applied to all but a small subset of customers who are taking service under specially-approved tariffs. The rate reduction will be effective March 1, 2018.

The second step will address the amortization of excess deferred taxes previously collected from customers. APS is analyzing the final impact of the Tax Act provisions related to deferred taxes and intends to make a second TEAM filing later in 2018.
The TEAM expressly applies to APS's retail rates with the exception noted above. The Company expects to make a filing with FERC in the first quarter of 2018 seeking authorization to provide for the cost reductions resulting from the income tax changes in its wholesale transmission rates.

See Note 3 for additional details.

Net Metering.      In 2015, the ACC voted to conduct a generic evidentiary hearing on the value and cost of DG to gather information that will inform the ACC on net metering issues and cost of service studies in upcoming utility rate cases.  A hearing was held in April 2016. On October 7, 2016, an Administrative Law Judge issued a recommendation in the docket concerning the value and cost of DG solar installations. On December 20, 2016, the ACC completed its open meeting to consider the recommended opinion and order by the Administrative Law Judge. After making several amendments, the ACC approved the recommended opinion and order by a 4-1 vote. As a result of the ACC’s action, effective as of APS’s 2017 Rate Case Decision, the current net metering tariff that governs payments for energy exported to the grid from rooftop

55

Table of Contents

solar systems was replaced by a more formula-driven approach that utilizes inputs from historical wholesale solar power costs and eventually an avoided cost methodology.

As amended, the decision provides that payments by utilities for energy exported to the grid from DG solar facilities will be determined using a resource comparison proxy methodology, a method that is based on the price that APS pays for utility-scale solar projects on a five year rolling average, while a forecasted avoided cost methodology is being developed.  The price established by this resource comparison proxy method will be updated annually (between general retail rate cases) but will not be decreased by more than 10% per year. Once the avoided cost methodology is developed, the ACC will determine in APS's subsequent general retail rate cases which method (or a combination of methods) is appropriate to determine the actual price to be paid by APS for exported distributed energy.

In addition, the ACC made the following determinations:

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Customers who have interconnected a DG system or submitted an application for interconnection for DG systems prior to August 19, 2017, the date new rates were effective based on APS's 2017 Rate Case Decision, will be grandfathered for a period of 20 years from the date the customer’s interconnection application was accepted by the utility;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Customers with DG solar systems are to be considered a separate class of customers for ratemaking purposes; and

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• Once an export price is set for APS, no netting or banking of retail credits will be available for new DG customers, and the then-applicable export price will be guaranteed for new customers for a period of 10 years.

This decision of the ACC addresses policy determinations only. The decision states that its principles will be applied in future general retail rate cases, and the policy determinations themselves may be subject to future change, as are all ACC policies. A first-year export energy price of 12.9 cents per kWh is included in the 2017 Settlement Agreement and became effective on August 19, 2017.

On January 23, 2017, The Alliance for Solar Choice ("TASC") sought rehearing of the ACC's decision regarding the value and cost of DG. TASC asserted that the ACC improperly ignored the Administrative Procedure Act, failed to give adequate notice regarding the scope of the proceedings, and relied on information that was not submitted as evidence, among other alleged defects. TASC filed a Notice of Appeal in the Court of Appeals and filed a Complaint and Statutory Appeal in the Maricopa County Superior Court on March 10, 2017. As part of the 2017 Settlement Agreement described above, TASC agreed to withdraw these appeals when the ACC decision implementing the 2017 Settlement Agreement is no longer subject to appellate review.

Subpoena from Arizona Corporation Commissioner Robert Burns. On August 25, 2016, Commissioner Burns, individually and not by action of the ACC as a whole, served subpoenas in APS’s then current retail rate proceeding on APS and Pinnacle West for the production of records and information relating to a range of expenditures from 2011 through 2016. The subpoenas requested information concerning marketing and advertising expenditures, charitable donations, lobbying expenses, contributions to 501(c)(3) and (c)(4) nonprofits and political contributions. The return date for the production of information was set as September 15, 2016. The subpoenas also sought testimony from Company personnel having knowledge of the material, including the Chief Executive Officer.

On September 9, 2016, APS filed with the ACC a motion to quash the subpoenas or, alternatively to stay APS's obligations to comply with the subpoenas and decline to decide APS's motion pending court proceedings. Contemporaneously with the filing of this motion, APS and Pinnacle West filed a complaint for special action and declaratory judgment in the Superior Court of Arizona for Maricopa County, seeking a

56

Table of Contents

declaratory judgment that Commissioner Burns’ subpoenas are contrary to law. On September 15, 2016, APS produced all non-confidential and responsive documents and offered to produce any remaining responsive documents that are confidential after an appropriate confidentiality agreement is signed.

On February 7, 2017, Commissioner Burns opened a new ACC docket and indicated that its purpose is to study and rectify problems with transparency and disclosure regarding financial contributions from regulated monopolies or other stakeholders who may appear before the ACC that may directly or indirectly benefit an ACC Commissioner, a candidate for ACC Commissioner, or key ACC staff.  As part of this docket, Commissioner Burns set March 24, 2017 as a deadline for the production of all information previously requested through the subpoenas. Neither APS nor Pinnacle West produced the information requested and instead objected to the subpoena. On March 10, 2017, Commissioner Burns filed suit against APS and Pinnacle West in the Superior Court of Arizona for Maricopa County in an effort to enforce his subpoenas. On March 30, 2017, APS filed a motion to dismiss Commissioner Burns' suit against APS and Pinnacle West. In response to the motion to dismiss, the court stayed the suit and ordered Commissioner Burns to file a motion to compel the production of the information sought by the subpoenas with the ACC. On June 20, 2017, the ACC denied the motion to compel. On August 4, 2017, Commissioner Burns amended his complaint to add all of the ACC Commissioners and the ACC itself as defendants. All defendants moved to dismiss the complaint. On February 15, 2018, the Superior Court dismissed Commissioner Burns’ complaint. The matter is subject to appeal. APS and Pinnacle West cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

In addition to the Superior Court proceedings discussed above, on August 20, 2017, Commissioner Burns filed a special action petition in the Arizona Supreme Court seeking to vacate the 2017 Rate Case Decision so that alleged issues of disqualification and bias on the part of the other Commissioners could be fully investigated. APS opposed the petition, and on October 17, 2017, the Arizona Supreme Court declined to accept jurisdiction over Commissioner Burns’ special action petition.

Renewable Energy Ballot Initiative. On February 20, 2018, a coalition of renewable energy advocates filed with the Arizona Secretary of State a ballot initiative for an Arizona constitutional amendment requiring Arizona public service corporations to procure 50% of their energy supply from renewable sources by 2030. For purposes of the proposed amendment, eligible renewable sources would not include nuclear generating facilities. The stated goal of the Clean Energy for a Healthy Arizona coalition is to complete the necessary steps to allow the initiative to be placed on the November 2018 Arizona elections ballot. The coalition must present over 225,000 verifiable signatures to the Secretary of State by July 5, 2018 to meet that goal. APS intends to oppose this effort. We believe the initiative is irresponsible and would result in negative impacts to Arizona utility customers, the Arizona economy and our company. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
Clean Resource Energy Standard and Tariff. On January 30, 2018, ACC Commissioner Tobin proposed the CREST, which consists of a series of energy reform policies tied to clean energy sources such as energy storage, biomass, energy efficiency, electric vehicles, and expanded energy planning through the Integrated Resource Plan process. The ACC has not yet initiated any formal proceedings with respect to Commissioner Tobin’s proposal; however, on February 22, 2018, the ACC Staff filed a Notice of Inquiry to further examine the matter. APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
FERC Matter. As part of APS’s acquisition of SCE’s interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5, APS and SCE agreed, via a "Transmission Termination Agreement" that, upon closing of the acquisition, the companies would terminate an existing transmission agreement ("Transmission Agreement") between the parties that provides transmission capacity on a system (the "Arizona Transmission System") for SCE to transmit its portion of the output from Four Corners to California.  APS previously submitted a request to FERC related to this termination, which resulted in a FERC order denying rate recovery of $40 million that APS agreed to pay SCE associated with the termination.  On December 22, 2015, APS and SCE agreed to terminate the

57

Table of Contents

Transmission Termination Agreement and allow for the Transmission Agreement to expire according to its terms, which includes settling obligations in accordance with the terms of the Transmission Agreement.  APS established a regulatory asset of $12 million in 2015 in connection with the payment required under the terms of the Transmission Agreement. On July 1, 2016, FERC issued an order denying APS’s request to recover the regulatory asset through its FERC-jurisdictional rates.  APS and SCE completed the termination of the Transmission Agreement on July 6, 2016. APS made the required payment to SCE and wrote-off the $12 million regulatory asset and charged operating revenues to reflect the effects of this order in the second quarter of 2016.  On July 29, 2016, APS filed for a rehearing with FERC. In its order denying recovery, FERC also referred to its enforcement division a question of whether the agreement between APS and SCE relating to the settlement of obligations under the Transmission Agreement was a jurisdictional contract that should have been filed with FERC. On October 5, 2017, FERC issued an order denying APS's request for rehearing. FERC also upheld its prior determination that the agreement relating to the settlement was a jurisdictional contract and should have been filed with FERC. APS cannot predict whether or if the enforcement division will take any action. APS filed an appeal of FERC's July 1, 2016 and October 5, 2017 orders with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on December 4, 2017. That proceeding is pending and APS cannot predict the outcome of the proceeding.

Financial Strength and Flexibility.  Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit facilities, and may readily access these facilities ensuring adequate liquidity for each company.  Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which may include issuances of long-term debt and Pinnacle West common stock.

Other Subsidiaries.

Bright Canyon Energy. On July 31, 2014, Pinnacle West announced its creation of a wholly-owned subsidiary, BCE.  BCE's focus is on new growth opportunities that leverage the Company’s core expertise in the electric energy industry.  BCE’s first initiative is a 50/50 joint venture with BHE U.S. Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company.  The joint venture, named TransCanyon, is pursuing independent transmission opportunities within the eleven states that comprise the Western Electricity Coordinating Council, excluding opportunities related to transmission service that would otherwise be provided under the tariffs of the retail service territories of the venture partners’ utility affiliates.  TransCanyon continues to pursue transmission development opportunities in the western United States consistent with its strategy.

On March 29, 2016, TransCanyon entered into a strategic alliance agreement with PG&E to jointly pursue competitive transmission opportunities solicited by the CAISO, the operator for the majority of California's transmission grid. TransCanyon and PG&E intend to jointly engage in the development of future transmission infrastructure and compete to develop, build, own and operate transmission projects approved by the CAISO.

El Dorado. The operations of El Dorado are not expected to have any material impact on our financial results, or to require any material amounts of capital, over the next three years.

4CA. See "Four Corners - Asset Purchase Agreement and Coal Supply Matters" above for information regarding 4CA.

58

Table of Contents

Key Financial Drivers

In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below.  We closely monitor these factors to plan for the Company’s current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and forecasts appropriately.

Electric Operating Revenues.  For the years 2015 through 2017, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 95% of our total electric operating revenues.  Our electric operating revenues are affected by customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, distributed energy additions, electricity rates and tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms.  These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including competition, demand and prices.

Actual and Projected Customer and Sales Growth.  Retail customers in APS’s service territory increased 1.8% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year.  For the three years 2015 through 2017, APS’s customer growth averaged 1.5% per year. We currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5 - 2.5% for 2018 and to average in the range of 2 - 3% for 2018 through 2020 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions in Arizona.

Retail electricity sales in kWh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, decreased 0.3% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year. Improving economic conditions and customer growth were more than offset by energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, distributed renewable generation initiatives and one fewer day of sales due to the leap year in 2016.  For the three years 2015 through 2017, APS experienced annual increases in retail electricity sales averaging 0.1%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations.  We currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kWh will increase in the range of 0.5 - 1.5% for 2018 and increase on average in the range of 0.5 - 1.5% during 2018 through 2020, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations.  A slower recovery of the Arizona economy or acceleration of the expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives could further impact these estimates.

Actual sales growth, excluding weather-related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in DG, and responses to retail price changes.  Based on past experience, a reasonable range of variation in our kWh sales projections attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to approximately $10 million.

Weather.  In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data.  Historically, extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million.  However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million.

Fuel and Purchased Power Costs.  Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market

59

Table of Contents

prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, changes in our generation resource allocation, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related amortization.

Operations and Maintenance Expenses.  Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by customer and sales growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, unplanned outages, planned outages (typically scheduled in the spring and fall), renewable energy and demand side management related expenses (which are offset by the same amount of operating revenues) and other factors. See Note 2 for discussion on new accounting guidance related to the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost.

Depreciation and Amortization Expenses.  Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates.  See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for information regarding the planned additions to our facilities and income tax impacts related to bonus depreciation.

Property Taxes.  Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in-service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates.  The average property tax rate in Arizona for APS, which owns essentially all of our property, was 11.2% of the assessed value for 2017, 11.2% for 2016 and 11.0% for 2015.  We expect property taxes to increase as we add new generating units and continue with improvements and expansions to our existing generating units and transmission and distribution facilities.

Income Taxes.  Income taxes are affected by the amount of pretax book income, income tax rates, certain deductions and non-taxable items, such as AFUDC.  In addition, income taxes may also be affected by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted and is generally effective on January 1, 2018. Changes which will impact the Company include a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 21%, revisions to the rules related to tax bonus depreciation, limitations on interest deductibility and an associated exception for certain public utilities, and requirements that certain excess deferred tax amounts of regulated utilities be normalized. (See Note 4 for details of the impacts on the Company as of December 31, 2017.) In APS's recent general retail rate case, the ACC approved a Tax Expense Adjustor Mechanism which will be used to pass through the income tax effects to retail customers of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. (See Note 3 for details of the TEAM.)

Interest Expense.  Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt (see Note 6).  The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long-term debt maturities, equity issuances and internally generated cash flow.  AFUDC offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction.  We stop accruing AFUDC on a project when it is placed in commercial operation.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Pinnacle West’s only reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution.

Operating Results – 2017 compared with 2016.

Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $488 million, compared with $442 million for the prior year.  The results reflect an increase of

60

Table of Contents

approximately $48 million for the regulated electricity segment primarily due to higher revenue resulting from the retail regulatory settlement effective August 19, 2017, higher transmission revenues, higher retail revenues due to customer growth and higher average effective prices due to customer usage patterns and changes relating to customer program eligibility, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization primarily due to increased plant in service and higher depreciation and amortization rates.

The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- ---- ---- ---------- ----- --- - - ---

 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2017 2016 Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Regulated Electricity Segment:
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 2,561 $ 2,407 $ 154
Operations and maintenance (911 ) (906 ) (5 )
Depreciation and amortization (532 ) (485 ) (47 )
Taxes other than income taxes (183 ) (166 ) (17 )
All other income and expenses, net 29 35 (6 )
Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (198 ) (186 ) (12 )
Income taxes (Note 4) (256 ) (237 ) (19 )
Less income related to noncontrolling interests (Note 18) (19 ) (19 ) —
Regulated electricity segment income 491 443 48
All other (3 ) (1 ) (2 )
Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 488 $ 442 $ 46

61

Table of Contents

Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses.  Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $154 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year.  The following table summarizes the major components of this change:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -- ------------------------------- --- ---------- --- -- - - ---

 Increase (Decrease)
 Operatingrevenues Fuel andpurchasedpower expenses Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Impacts of retail regulatory settlement effective August 19, 2017 (Note 3) $ 55 $ — $ 55
Transmission revenues (Note 3):
Higher transmission revenues 30 — 30
Absence of 2016 FERC disallowance 12 — 12
Higher retail revenue due to customer growth and higher average effective prices due to customer usage patterns and changes relating to customer program participation (a) 21 (3 ) 24
Lost fixed cost recovery 14 — 14
Effects of weather 9 3 6
Changes in net fuel and purchased power costs, including off-system sales margins and related deferrals (83 ) (92 ) 9
Higher demand side management regulatory surcharges and renewable energy regulatory surcharges and purchased power, partially offset in operations and maintenance costs 9 2 7
Miscellaneous items, net (3 ) — (3 )
Total $ 64 $ (90 ) $ 154

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) Partially offset by the impacts of efficiency programs and distributed generation.

Operations and maintenance.  Operations and maintenance expenses increased $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily because of:

- ------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $10 million for employee benefit costs;

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $9 million for costs primarily related to information technology and other corporate support;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $8 million related to costs for demand-side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory programs, which is partially offset in operating revenues and purchased power;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $5 million related to the Navajo Plant capital projects canceled due to the expected plant retirement, which were deferred for regulatory recovery in depreciation;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $12 million for lower Palo Verde operating costs;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $11 million in fossil generation costs primarily due to less planned outage activity in the current year and lower Navajo Generating Plant costs;

62

Table of Contents

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $5 million primarily due to the absence of 2016 costs to support the Company's positions on a solar net metering ballot initiative in Arizona; and

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $1 million related to miscellaneous other factors.

Depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization expenses were $47 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily related to increased plant in service of $32 million and increased depreciation and amortization rates of $19 million, partially offset by the regulatory deferral of the canceled capital projects associated with the expected Navajo Plant retirement of $5 million.

Taxes other than income taxes.  Taxes other than income taxes were $17 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily due to higher property values and the amortization of our property tax deferral regulatory asset.

All other income and expenses, net.  All other income and expenses, net, were $6 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily due to the absence of a gain on sale of a transmission line, which occurred in 2016.

Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction.  Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, increased $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year, primarily because of higher debt balances in the current year.

Income taxes.  Income taxes were $19 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily due to the effects of higher pretax income in the current year and the effects of the federal tax reform, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate primarily due to stock compensation. The stock compensation guidance requires all excess income tax benefits and deficiencies arising from share-based payments to be recognized in earnings in the period they occur, which causes effective tax rate fluctuations when stock compensation payouts occur.

63

Table of Contents

Operating Results – 2016 compared with 2015.

Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $442 million, compared with $437 million for the prior year.  The results reflect an increase of approximately $4 million for the regulated electricity segment primarily due to higher transmission revenues, higher retail revenues due to customer growth and changes in customer usage patterns and related pricing, partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expense primarily related to transmission, distribution and customer service costs.

The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- ---- ---- ---------- ----- --- - - --

 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2016 2015 Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Regulated Electricity Segment:
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 2,407 $ 2,391 $ 16
Operations and maintenance (906 ) (868 ) (38 )
Depreciation and amortization (485 ) (494 ) 9
Taxes other than income taxes (166 ) (172 ) 6
All other income and expenses, net 35 19 16
Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (186 ) (179 ) (7 )
Income taxes (237 ) (239 ) 2
Less income related to noncontrolling interests (Note 18) (19 ) (19 ) —
Regulated electricity segment income 443 439 4
All other (1 ) (2 ) 1
Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 442 $ 437 $ 5

64

Table of Contents

Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses.  Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $16 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year.  The following table summarizes the major components of this change:

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -- ------------------------------- --- ---------- --- --- - - --

 Increase (Decrease)
 Operatingrevenues Fuel andpurchasedpower expenses Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Lost fixed cost recovery $ 17 $ — $ 17
Effects of weather 6 2 4
Transmission revenues (Note 3):
Higher transmission revenues 27 — 27
FERC disallowance (12 ) — (12 )
Higher retail revenues due to changes in customer usage patterns and related pricing 10 — 10
Changes in net fuel and purchased power costs, including off-system sales margins and related deferrals (15 ) (17 ) 2
Palo Verde system benefits charge (offset in depreciation and amortization, see Note 3) (14 ) — (14 )
Lower demand side management regulatory surcharges and renewable energy regulatory surcharges and purchased power partially offset in operations and maintenance costs (16 ) (1 ) (15 )
Miscellaneous items, net (6 ) (3 ) (3 )
Total $ (3 ) $ (19 ) $ 16

Operations and maintenance.  Operations and maintenance expenses increased $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily because of:

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $16 million for transmission, distribution, and customer service costs primarily related to increased maintenance costs and implementation of new systems;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $9 million primarily for costs to support the company's positions on a solar net metering ballot initiative in Arizona and increased political participation costs;

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $8 million in fossil generation costs primarily related to $33 million in higher planned outage costs, partially offset by $25 million of lower other fossil operating costs;

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $7 million for costs related to legal, regulatory, information systems and other corporate support;

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $5 million for employee benefit costs primarily related to increased pension, medical claims and other benefit costs;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $5 million related to higher nuclear generation costs;

65

Table of Contents

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An offsetting decrease of $13 million related to costs for demand-side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory programs, which is partially offset in operating revenues and purchased power; and

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $1 million related to miscellaneous other factors.

Additionally, stock compensation costs were flat compared to the prior year as a $12 million increase in costs was offset by a one-time $12 million reduction for the adoption of new stock compensation guidance (See Note 15);

Depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization expenses were $9 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily related to:

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $20 million related to the regulatory treatment of the Palo Verde sale leaseback lease extension;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $14 million due to lower Palo Verde decommissioning expense recovered through the system benefits charge (offset in operating revenues); and

- -------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $25 million due to increased plant in service.

Taxes other than income taxes.  Taxes other than income taxes were $6 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily due to lower assessed values resulting from a lower Arizona statutory rate, partially offset by higher property tax rates.

All other income and expenses, net.  All other income and expenses, net, were $16 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily due to higher allowance for equity funds used during construction and the gain on sale of a transmission line.

Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction.  Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, increased $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year, primarily because of higher debt balances in the current year.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

Pinnacle West’s primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.  The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on declaration by our Board of Directors and based on a number of factors, including our financial condition, payout ratio, free cash flow and other factors.

Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS and external debt and equity issuances.  An ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40%.  As defined in the related ACC order, the common equity ratio is defined as total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt.  At December 31, 2017, APS’s common equity ratio, as defined, was 53%.  Its total shareholder equity was approximately $5.3 billion, and total capitalization was approximately $10.0 billion.  Under this order, APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if such payment would reduce its total shareholder equity below approximately $4.0 billion,

66

Table of Contents

assuming APS’s total capitalization remains the same.  This restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its ongoing cash needs or ability to pay dividends to shareholders.

APS’s capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and maturities of long-term debt.  APS funds its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, external debt financing and equity infusions from Pinnacle West.

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was enacted.  As a result of this legislation, bonus depreciation is no longer available for regulated public utility company property acquired, or that commenced construction, after September 27, 2017. The final legislative language contains a transition rule for property which was acquired, or under construction, prior to September 28, 2017 which would allow at least some part of APS’s capital projects under construction at that time to continue to qualify for bonus depreciation under pre-Act rules. However, because of current ambiguities regarding the scope of this transition rule, it is unclear how much of APS’s capital projects which were under construction prior to September 28, 2017, will qualify. The Company currently believes the continued availability of bonus depreciation for property under construction prior to September 28, 2017 will generate at least $60-$75 million of cash tax benefits over the next two years. These benefits may be higher if the current ambiguities in the legislative language are clarified in a manner which allows additional expenditures incurred after September 27, 2017, related to ongoing capital projects under construction as of that date, to qualify for bonus depreciation.  The cash generated by bonus depreciation is an acceleration of the tax benefits that APS would have otherwise received over 20 years and reduces rate base for ratemaking purposes. At Pinnacle West Consolidated, when coupled with a lower 21 percent corporate tax rate, the continued availability of bonus depreciation to this transition period property is expected to delay until 2019 full cash realization of approximately $85 million of currently unrealized Investment Tax Credits and other tax credits, which are recorded as a deferred tax asset on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017.

Summary of Cash Flows

The following tables present net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions):

Pinnacle West Consolidated

---------------------------------------------------- ------ ----- ---- ------ ---- ----- ------ - - -----

 2017 2016 2015
Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,118 $ 1,023 $ 1,094
Net cash flow used for investing activities (1,429 ) (1,252 ) (1,066 )
Net cash flow provided by financing activities 316 198 4
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 5 $ (31 ) $ 32

Arizona Public Service Company

--------------------------------------------------------- ------ ----- ---- ------ ---- ----- ------ - - -----

 2017 2016 2015
Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,162 $ 1,010 $ 1,100
Net cash flow used for investing activities (1,401 ) (1,219 ) (1,060 )
Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities 244 196 (22 )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 5 $ (13 ) $ 18

67

Table of Contents

 Operating Cash Flows

2017 Compared with 2016. Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $1,118 million in 2017 compared to $1,023 million in 2016. The increase of $95 million in net cash provided is primarily due to lower payments of operations and maintenance, fuel and purchased power costs and higher cash receipts, partially offset by no collateral posted in 2017 compared to $17 million returned in 2016. The difference between APS and Pinnacle West's net cash provided by operating activities primarily relates to Pinnacle West's cash payments for 4CA's operating costs and differences in other operating cash payments.

2016 Compared with 2015. Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $1,023 million in 2016 compared to $1,094 million in 2015. The decrease of $71 million in net cash provided is primarily due to higher operations and maintenance costs.

Retirement plans and other postretirement benefits. Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit pension plan and a non-qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries.  The requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan.  We contribute at least the minimum amount required under ERISA regulations, but no more than the maximum tax-deductible amount.  The minimum required funding takes into consideration the value of plan assets and our pension benefit obligations.  Under ERISA, the qualified pension plan was 116% funded as of January 1, 2018 and 115% as of January 1, 2017.  Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the qualified pension plan was 95% funded as of January 1, 2018 and 88% funded as of January 1, 2017. See Note 7 for additional details. The assets in the plan are comprised of fixed-income, equity, real estate, and short-term investments.  Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial assumptions.  We made contributions to our pension plan totaling $100 million in 2017, $100 million in 2016, and $100 million in 2015.  The minimum required contributions for the pension plan are zero for the next three years.  We expect to make voluntary contributions up to a total of $250 million during the 2018-2020 period.  With regard to contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans, we made a contribution of approximately $1 million in each of 2017, 2016 and 2015.  We do not expect to make any contributions over the next three years to our other postretirement benefit plans. APS funds its share of the contributions.  APS’s share of the pension plan contribution was approximately $100 million in 2017, $100 million in 2016 and $100 million in 2015.  APS’s share of the contributions to the other postretirement benefit plan was approximately $1 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Due to plan changes in September 2014, the Company is currently in the process of seeking Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") approval to move approximately $186 million of other postretirement benefit trust assets into a new trust account to pay for active union employee medical costs. In December 2016, FERC approved a methodology for determining the amount of other postretirement benefit trust assets to transfer into a new trust account to pay for active union employee medical costs. On January 2, 2018, these funds were moved to the new trust account.  The Company negotiated a draft Closing Agreement granting tentative approval from the IRS prior to the transfer. Subsequent to the transfer, the Company submitted proof of the transfer to the IRS and expects to execute a final Closing Agreement early in 2018. Per the terms of an order from FERC, the Company must also make an informational filing with FERC. The Company made this FERC filing during February 2018. It is the Company’s understanding that completion of these regulatory requirements will then permit access to the approximately $186 million for the sole purpose of paying active union employee medical benefits.

68

Table of Contents

Investing Cash Flows

2017 Compared with 2016. Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash used for investing activities was $(1,429) million in 2017, compared to $(1,252) million in 2016. The increase of $177 million in net cash used primarily related to increased capital expenditures.

2016 Compared with 2015. Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash used for investing activities was $(1,252) million in 2016, compared to $(1,066) million in 2015. The increase of $186 million in net cash used primarily related to increased capital expenditures.

Capital Expenditures.  The following table summarizes the estimated capital expenditures for the next three years:

Capital Expenditures
(dollars in millions)

------------------ ---------------------------------------- ----- ---- --- ---- ----- --- - -----

 Estimated for the Year EndedDecember 31,
 2018 2019 2020
APS
Generation:
Nuclear Fuel $ 72 $ 64 $ 64
Renewables 16 24 17
Environmental 91 22 46
New Gas Generation 120 9 —
Other Generation 210 177 134
Distribution 444 541 617
Transmission 148 215 180
Other (a) 80 101 153
Total APS $ 1,181 $ 1,153 $ 1,211

 (a)     Primarily information systems and facilities projects.

Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various improvements to APS’s existing fossil, renewable and nuclear plants.  Examples of the types of projects included in this category are additions, upgrades and capital replacements of various power plant equipment, such as turbines, boilers and environmental equipment.  We are monitoring the status of environmental matters, which, depending on their final outcome, could require modification to our planned environmental expenditures.

On February 17, 2015, APS and El Paso entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS, or an affiliate of APS, of El Paso’s 7% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. 4CA purchased the El Paso interest on July 6, 2016. NTEC had the option to purchase the 7% interest within a certain timeframe pursuant to an option granted to NTEC. On December 29, 2015, NTEC provided notice of its intent to exercise the option. The purchase did not occur during the originally contemplated timeframe. The parties are currently in discussions as to the future of the option transaction. The table above does not include capital expenditures related to 4CA's interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 of approximately $15 million in 2018, $7 million in 2019 and $6 million in 2020, which will be assumed by the ultimate owner of the 7% interest.

69

Table of Contents

Distribution and transmission capital expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and upgrades, capital replacements, and new customer construction.  Examples of the types of projects included in the forecast include power lines, substations, and line extensions to new residential and commercial developments.

Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which may include issuances of long-term debt and Pinnacle West common stock.

Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity

2017 Compared with 2016. Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash provided by financing activities was $316 million in 2017, compared to $198 million in 2016, an increase of $118 million in net cash provided.  The net cash provided by financing activities includes $245 million in lower long-term debt repayments and $155 million higher issuances of long-term debt through December 31, 2017, partially offset by a $259 million net decrease in short-term borrowings and $16 million of higher dividend payments.

APS’s consolidated net cash provided by financing activities was $244 million in 2017, compared to $196 million in 2016, an increase of $48 million in net cash provided.  The net cash provided by financing activities includes $370 million in lower long-term debt repayments and $108 million in higher equity infusions from Pinnacle West, partially offset by $143 million lower issuances of long-term debt through December 31, 2017, $271 million net decrease in short-term borrowings and $16 million of higher dividend payments.

2016 Compared with 2015. Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash provided by financing activities was $198 million in 2016, compared to $4 million in 2015, an increase of $194 million in net cash provided.  The increase in net cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to a $325 million net increase in short-term borrowings and $45 million in lower long-term debt repayments partially offset by $149 million lower issuances of long-term debt through December 31, 2016.

Significant Financing Activities.  On December 20, 2017, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.695 per share of common stock, payable on March 1, 2018 to shareholders of record on February 1, 2018. During 2017, Pinnacle West increased its indicated annual dividend from $2.62 per share to $2.78 per share. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Pinnacle West's total dividends paid per share of common stock were $2.66 per share, which resulted in dividend payments of $290 million.

On November 30, 2017, Pinnacle West issued $300 million of 2.25% unsecured senior notes that mature on November 30, 2020.  The net proceeds from the sale were used to repay our $125 million term loan and for general corporate purposes.

On March 21, 2017, APS issued an additional $250 million par amount of its outstanding 4.35% senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2045.  The net proceeds from the sale were used to refinance commercial paper borrowings and to replenish cash temporarily used to fund capital expenditures.

On September 11, 2017, APS issued $300 million of 2.95% senior unsecured notes that mature on September 15, 2027. The net proceeds from the sale were used to refinance commercial paper and other indebtedness and to replenish cash used to fund capital expenditures.

On November 30, 2017, PNW contributed $150 million to APS in the form of an equity infusion.  APS used this contribution to repay short-term indebtedness, to finance capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes.

70

Table of Contents

Available Credit Facilities. Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities in order to enhance liquidity and provide credit support for their commercial paper programs.

At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle West had a $200 million facility that matures in May 2021. Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders.  At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle West had no outstanding borrowings under its credit facility, no letters of credit outstanding and $29.4 million of commercial paper borrowings.

On July 31, 2017, Pinnacle West amended its 364-day unsecured revolving credit facility to increase its capacity from $75 million to $125 million, and to extend the termination date of the facility from August 30, 2017 to July 30, 2018.  Borrowings under the facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.80% per annum. At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle West had $66 million outstanding under the facility.

On June 29, 2017, APS replaced its $500 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in September 2020, with a new $500 million facility that matures in June 2022.

At December 31, 2017, APS had two revolving credit facilities totaling $1 billion, including a $500 million credit facility that matures in May 2021 and the above-mentioned $500 million facility. APS may increase the amount of each facility up to a maximum of $700 million, for a total of $1.4 billion, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. Interest rates are based on APS’s senior unsecured debt credit ratings. These facilities are available to support APS’s $500 million commercial paper program, for bank borrowings or for issuances of letters of credit. At December 31, 2017, APS had no commercial paper outstanding and no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under its revolving credit facilities.

 See "Financial Assurances" in Note 10 for a discussion of APS’s separate outstanding letters of credit.
Other Financing Matters.  See Note 16 for information related to the change in our margin and collateral accounts.

Debt Provisions

Pinnacle West’s and APS’s debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include maximum debt to capitalization ratios.  Pinnacle West and APS comply with this covenant.  For both Pinnacle West and APS, this covenant requires that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%.  At December 31, 2017, the ratio was approximately 50% for Pinnacle West and 47% for APS.  Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could "cross-default" other debt.  See further discussion of "cross-default" provisions below.

Neither Pinnacle West’s nor APS’s financing agreements contain "rating triggers" that would result in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade.  However, our bank credit agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest rates we pay for borrowings thereunder are determined by our current credit ratings.

All of Pinnacle West’s loan agreements contain "cross-default" provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS were to default under certain other material agreements.  All of APS’s bank agreements contain "cross-default" provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements.  Pinnacle West and APS do not have a material adverse change restriction for credit facility borrowings.

71

Table of Contents

See Note 6 for further discussions of liquidity matters.

Credit Ratings

The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 16, 2018 are shown below.  We are disclosing these credit ratings to enhance understanding of our cost of short-term and long-term capital and our ability to access the markets for liquidity and long-term debt.  The ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained.  There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time.  The ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant.  Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s or APS’s securities and/or result in an increase in the cost of, or limit access to, capital.  Such revisions may also result in substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, fuel supply, and other energy-related contracts.  At this time, we believe we have sufficient available liquidity resources to respond to a downward revision to our credit ratings.

----------------------- ------- ----------------- ------

 Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Fitch
Pinnacle West
Corporate credit rating A3 A- A-
Senior unsecured A3 BBB+ A-
Commercial paper P-2 A-2 F2
Outlook Stable Positive Stable

APS
Corporate credit rating A2 A- A-
Senior unsecured A2 A- A
Commercial paper P-1 A-2 F2
Outlook Stable Positive Stable

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

See Note 18 for a discussion of the impacts on our financial statements of consolidating certain VIEs.

72

Table of Contents

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes Pinnacle West’s consolidated contractual requirements as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in millions):

------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- --------- ----- --------- ----- ---------- ----- ----- ----- ------ - ------

 2018 2019-2020 2021-2022 Thereafter Total
Long-term debt payments, including interest: (a)
APS $ 290 $ 1,192 $ 310 $ 5,959 $ 7,751
Pinnacle West 7 314 — — 321
Total long-term debt payments, including interest 297 1,506 310 5,959 8,072
Short-term debt payments, including interest (b) 95 — — — 95
Fuel and purchased power commitments (c) 539 1,099 1,084 6,271 8,993
Renewable energy credits (d) 40 80 80 370 570
Purchase obligations (e) 176 27 18 204 425
Coal reclamation 32 56 46 207 341
Nuclear decommissioning funding requirements 2 4 4 55 65
Noncontrolling interests (f) 23 46 46 182 297
Operating lease payments 13 21 12 56 102
Total contractual commitments $ 1,217 $ 2,839 $ 1,600 $ 13,304 $ 18,960

--- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) The long-term debt matures at various dates through 2046 and bears interest principally at fixed rates. Interest on variable-rate long-term debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2017 (see Note 6).

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) See Note 5 - Lines of credit and short-term borrowings for further details.

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(c) Our fuel and purchased power commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas, renewable energy, nuclear fuel, and natural gas transportation (see Notes 3 and 10).

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(d) Contracts to purchase renewable energy credits in compliance with the RES (see Note 3).

--- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(e) These contractual obligations include commitments for capital expenditures and other obligations.

--- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(f) Payments to the noncontrolling interests relate to the Palo Verde Sale Leaseback (see Note 18).

This table excludes $42 million in unrecognized tax benefits because the timing of the future cash outflows is uncertain.  Estimated minimum required pension contributions are zero for 2018, 2019 and 2020 (see Note 7).

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period.  Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates.  We consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved.

73

Table of Contents

Regulatory Accounting

Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and FERC, to be reflected in our financial statements.  Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies.  Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates.  Regulatory liabilities generally represent amounts collected in rates to recover costs expected to be incurred in the future or amounts collected in excess of costs incurred and are refundable to customers. Management continually assesses whether our regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction.  This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in Arizona and is subject to change in the future.  If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings.  We had $1,450 million of regulatory assets and $2,553 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2017.

Included in the balance of regulatory assets at December 31, 2017 is a regulatory asset of $576 million for pension benefits.  This regulatory asset represents the future recovery of these costs through retail rates as these amounts are charged to earnings.  If all or a portion of these costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future earnings.

See Notes 1 and 3 for more information.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting

Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position.  The most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long-term, the mortality assumptions, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates.  We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary.

The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2017 reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2017 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions):

------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- ---- ----------------------- --- - --- -

 Increase (Decrease)
Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact onPensionLiability Impact onPensionExpense
Discount rate:
Increase 1% $ (372 ) $ (11 )
Decrease 1% 455 14
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets:
Increase 1% — (13 )
Decrease 1% — 13

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point.

74

Table of Contents

The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would have had on the December 31, 2017 other postretirement benefit obligation and our 2017 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions):

---------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------- ---- -------------------------------------------- -- - -- -

 Increase (Decrease)
Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact on OtherPostretirement BenefitObligation Impact on OtherPostretirementBenefit Expense
Discount rate:
Increase 1% $ (100 ) $ (3 )
Decrease 1% 129 6
Healthcare cost trend rate (b):
Increase 1% 128 8
Decrease 1% (98 ) (6 )
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets – pretax:
Increase 1% — (4 )
Decrease 1% — 4

--- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while the rates are changed by one percentage point.

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(b) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate healthcare cost trend rate.

See Notes 2 and 7 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

Fair Value Measurements

We account for derivative instruments, investments held in our nuclear decommissioning trust fund, investments held in our coal reclamation escrow account, certain cash equivalents, and plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans at fair value on a recurring basis.  Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  We use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine fair market value. We utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.  The significance of a particular input determines how the instrument is classified in a fair value hierarchy.  The determination of fair value sometimes requires subjective and complex judgment.  Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within a fair value hierarchy.  Actual results could differ from our estimates of fair value.  See Note 1 for a discussion of accounting policies and Note 13 for fair value measurement disclosures.

Asset Retirement Obligations

We recognize an ARO for the future decommissioning or retirement of our tangible long-lived assets for which a legal obligation exists. The ARO liability represents an estimate of the fair value of the current obligation related to decommissioning and the retirement of those assets. ARO measurements inherently involve uncertainty in the amount and timing of settlement of the liability. We use an expected cash flow approach to measure the amount we recognize as an ARO. This approach applies probability weighting to discounted future cash flow scenarios that reflect a range of possible outcomes. The scenarios consider settlement of the ARO at the expiration of the power plant’s current license or lease term and expected

75

Table of Contents

decommissioning dates. The fair value of an ARO is recognized in the period in which it is incurred. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying value of the long-lived asset and are depreciated over the life of the related assets. In addition, we accrete the ARO liability to reflect the passage of time. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the amount of the recorded ARO for these assets. In accordance with regulatory accounting, APS accrues removal costs for its regulated utility assets, even if there is no legal obligation for removal.

AROs as of December 31, 2017 are described further in “Note 11, Asset Retirement Obligations”.

Income Taxes

Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted, and is generally effective January 1, 2018. This legislation made significant changes to the federal income tax laws. Changes which will impact the Company include, but are not limited to, a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 21%, revisions to the rules related to tax bonus depreciation, limitations on interest deductibility and an associated exception for certain public utility property, and requirements that certain excess deferred tax amounts of regulated utilities be normalized. Several sections of the final legislation contain technical ambiguities. Accordingly, it is necessary for management to interpret this legislation and make judgements until further guidance becomes available. As a result, changes in these judgments could materially affect amounts the Company recognized in its financial statements.
Deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities as well as tax credit carry forwards and net operating loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period the change is enacted. Given the regulatory nature of the Company’s business, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities for the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate to 21%, which management believes it is probable that a regulatory agency will seek to recover for ratepayers, has been recorded as a regulatory liability as of December 31, 2017.
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with the application of complex laws and regulations which are voluminous and often ambiguous. Interpretations and guidance surrounding income tax laws and regulations change over time. Tax positions taken by Pinnacle West on its income tax returns that are recognized in the financial statements must satisfy a more likely than not recognition threshold, assuming that the position will be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of the technical merits.
We record unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions that may not satisfy this more likely than not recognition threshold as liabilities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These liabilities are adjusted when management judgement changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. These changes will be reflected as an increase or decrease to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available.

76

Table of Contents

OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS

We adopted the following new accounting standards on January 1, 2018:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2014-09: Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and related amendments

- ---------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments, Recognition and Measurement

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2016-15: Statement of Cash Flows, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments

- -----------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2016-18: Statement of Cash Flows, Restricted Cash

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2017-07: Compensation-Retirement Benefits, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2017-01: Business Combinations, Clarifying the Definition of a Business

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2017-05: Other Income, Clarifying the Scope of Asset Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial Sales of Nonfinancial Assets

We are currently evaluating the impacts of the pending adoption of the following new accounting standards:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2016-02: Leases, and related amendments, effective for us on January 1, 2019

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2017-12: Derivatives and Hedging, Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, effective for us on January 1, 2019

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2018-02: Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income: Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments, Measurement of Credit Losses, effective for us on January 1, 2020

See Note 2 for additional information related to new accounting standards.

MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS

Market Risks

Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund and benefit plan assets.

Interest Rate and Equity Risk

We have exposure to changing interest rates.  Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable-rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning trust fund (see Note 13 and Note 19) and benefit plan assets.  The nuclear decommissioning trust fund and benefit plan assets also have risks associated with the changing market value of their equity and other non-fixed income investments.  Nuclear decommissioning and benefit plan costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices.

77

Table of Contents

The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long-term and short-term debt at the expected maturity dates, as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2017 and 2016.  The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in millions):

Pinnacle West – Consolidated

---------------- -------------- - --------------------------- - ------------------------ ------ ---- -------- --- ------ --- ---- - ---- ----- - ----- -----

 Short-TermDebt Variable-RateLong-Term Debt Fixed-RateLong-Term Debt
 Interest Interest Interest
 2017 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount
 2018 2.14 % $ 95 2.17 % $ 50 1.75 % $ 32
 2019 — — 2.27 % 100 8.75 % 500
 2020 — — — — 2.23 % 550
 2021 — — — — — —
 2022 — — — — — —
Years thereafter — — 1.77 % 36 4.25 % 3,640
Total $ 95 $ 186 $ 4,722
Fair value $ 95 $ 186 $ 5,119

---------------- -------------- --------------------------- ------ ------------------------ --- ------ ---- -------- --- ------ --- ---- - - ----- - ----- -----

 Short-TermDebt Variable-RateLong-Term Debt Fixed-RateLong-Term Debt
 Interest Interest Interest
 2016 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount
 2017 1.01 % $ 177 1.52 % $ 125 — % $ —
 2018 — — 1.37 % 50 1.75 % 32
 2019 — — 1.46 % 100 8.75 % 500
 2020 — — — — 2.20 % 250
 2021 — — — — — —
Years thereafter — — 0.81 % 36 4.37 % 3,090
Total $ 177 $ 311 $ 3,872
Fair value $ 177 $ 311 $ 4,115

78

Table of Contents

The tables below present contractual balances of APS’s long-term and short-term debt at the expected maturity dates, as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2017 and 2016.  The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted-average interest rates as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in millions):

APS — Consolidated

---------------- --------------------------- - ------------------------ --- -------- ------ ---- - ----- ----- -----

 Variable-RateLong-Term Debt Fixed-RateLong-Term Debt
 Interest Interest
 2017 Rates Amount Rates Amount
 2018 2.17 % $ 50 1.75 % $ 32
 2019 2.27 % 100 8.75 % 500
 2020 — — 2.20 % 250
 2021 — — — —
 2022 — — — —
Years thereafter 1.77 % 36 4.25 % 3,640
Total $ 186 $ 4,422
Fair value $ 186 $ 4,820

---------------- -------------- --------------------------- ------ ------------------------ --- ------ - -------- --- ------ --- ---- - - ----- ----- - -----

 Short-TermDebt Variable-RateLong-Term Debt Fixed-RateLong-Term Debt
 Interest Interest Interest
 2016 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount
 2017 0.88 % $ 135 — % $ — — % $ —
 2018 — — 1.37 % 50 1.75 % 32
 2019 — — 1.46 % 100 8.75 % 500
 2020 — — — — 2.20 % 250
 2021 — — — — — —
Years thereafter — — 0.81 % 36 4.37 % 3,090
Total $ 135 $ 186 $ 3,872
Fair value $ 135 $ 186 $ 4,115

Commodity Price Risk

We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation costs of electricity and natural gas.  Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key management personnel, oversees company-wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management policies.  We manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity instruments that may qualify as derivatives, including futures, forwards, options and swaps.  As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels.  The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities.

79

Table of Contents

The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark-to-market of our derivative positions in 2017 and 2016 (dollars in millions):

---------------------------------------------------- ---- --- ---- --- - ---- -

 2017 2016
Mark-to-market of net positions at beginning of year $ (49 ) $ (154 )
Decrease (Increase) in regulatory asset (46 ) 101
Recognized in OCI:
Mark-to-market losses realized during the period 4 4
Change in valuation techniques — —
Mark-to-market of net positions at end of year $ (91 ) $ (49 )

The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our derivative contracts (dollars in millions) at December 31, 2017 by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate the fair values, classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.  See Note 1, “Derivative Accounting” and “Fair Value Measurements,” for more discussion of our valuation methods.

---------------------------------------------------- ---- --- ---- -- ---- --- ---- - ---------------- -- - --- -- - - --- -

Source of Fair Value 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total fair value
Observable prices provided by other external sources $ (49 ) $ (23 ) $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (74 )
Prices based on unobservable inputs (5 ) (8 ) (4 ) — (17 )
Total by maturity $ (54 ) $ (31 ) $ (5 ) $ (1 ) $ (91 )

The table below shows the impact that hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in millions):

--------------------------------------- ---------------------------- -- ---------------------------- --- ------------ --- -------------- - --- - - --- -

 December 31, 2017Gain (Loss) December 31, 2016Gain (Loss)
 Price Up 10% Price Down 10% Price Up 10% Price Down 10%
Mark-to-market changes reported in:
Regulatory asset (liability) or OCI (a)
Electricity $ 1 $ (1 ) $ 2 $ (2 )
Natural gas 45 (45 ) 46 (46 )
Total $ 46 $ (46 ) $ 48 $ (48 )

--- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) These contracts are economic hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity. The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged. To the extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a regulatory asset or liability.

80

Table of Contents

Credit Risk

We are exposed to losses in the event of non-performance or non-payment by counterparties.  See Note 16 for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 10]:
Note 10. Stockholders' Equity Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As of December 31, 2017, we are authorized to issue 5,000 million shares of Class A common stock and 4,141 million shares of Class B common stock, each with a par value of $0.000006 per share. Holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock are entitled to dividends when, as and if, declared by our board of directors, subject to the rights of the holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights to dividends. As of December 31, 2017, we have not declared any dividends and our credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. The holder of each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote, while the holder of each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. Shares of our Class B common stock are convertible into an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock and generally convert into shares of our Class A common stock upon transfer. Class A common stock and Class B common stock are referred to as common stock throughout the notes to these financial statements, unless otherwise noted. As of December 31, 2017, there were 2,397 million shares and 509 million shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, respectively, issued and outstanding. Abandonment of the Reclassification In September 2017, our board of directors decided to abandon the proposal to create a new class of non-voting capital stock (Class C capital stock) and the intention to issue a dividend of two shares of Class C capital stock for each outstanding share of Class A and Class B common stock (the Reclassification). As a result, we will not proceed with the filing of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation which was approved by our stockholders on June 20, 2016. 77 Share Repurchase Program In November 2016, our board of directors authorized a $6.0 b...

[see Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS TubeMogul On December 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we are continuing to integrate TubeMogul into our Digital Marketing reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to TubeMogul's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of December 19, 2016. During fiscal 2017, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to tangible assets, liabilities assumed, and their related impact to goodwill. The total final purchase price for TubeMogul was $560.8 million of which $348.4 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $113.1 million to identifiable intangible assets and $99.3 million to net assets acquired. Fotolia On January 27, 2015, we completed our acquisition of privately held Fotolia, a leading marketplace for royalty-free photos, images, graphics and HD videos. During fiscal 2015, we integrated Fotolia into our Digital Media reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Fotolia's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of January 27, 2015. During fiscal 2015, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to assumed intangible assets, calculation of deferred tax assets, liabilities and equity awards. The total final purchase price for Fotolia was $807.5 million of which $745.1 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $204.4 million to identifiable intangible assets and $142.0 million to net liabilities assumed. We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. Pro forma information has n...

[See Note 4]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins represent EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company...

[See Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[see Note 6]:
(6) Interest rate swaps, settled upon the issuance of these notes in 2017, effectively set the interest rate on the $750 million notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 3.44%. Maturities of long-term debt during the fiscal years subsequent to November 30, 2018 are as follows (in millions): ---------- ------- ---- 2019 $ 77.1 2020 576.8 2021 326.8 2022 1,182.6 Thereafter 2,317.0 The consideration for our acquisition of RB Foods on August 17, 2017 totaled approximately $4.2 billion in cash (see note 2) and was funded with (a) borrowings under McCormick's $1.5 billion Term Loan Agreement described below; (b) amounts received from the offering of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of McCormick's senior unsecured notes described below; and (c) amounts received from the offering of McCormick's common stock non-voting, which closed on August 11, 2017 (see note 13). In connection with our entry into the agreement to acquire RB Foods, we entered into a commitment letter, dated July 18, 2017 (the "Commitment Letter"), under which certain banks agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") of up to $4.2 billion in the aggregate. On August 7, 2017, we entered into a Senior Unsecured Bridge Credit Agreement with certain financial institutions under which those financial institutions agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") for the purpose of providing the financing necessary to fund all or a portion of the consideration to be paid pursuant to the terms of the agreement related to the acquisition of RB Foods and related fees and expenses (the "Bridge Loan Commitment"). The Bridge Facility provided that the Bridge Loan Commitment would be reduced in equivalent amounts upon any incurrence by McCormick of, among other things, term loans and/or the issuance of equity or notes in a public offering or private placement prior to the consummation of the transaction, subject to certain exce...

[see Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[See Note 15]:
NOTE 15. DEBT Our long-term debt as of December 1, 2017 and December 2, 2016 consisted of the following (in thousands): -------------------------------- --------- --------- ---- --------- - --------- 2017 2016 Notes $ 1,882,479 $ 1,879,083 Fair value of interest rate swap (1,058 ) 13,117 Adjusted carrying value of Notes 1,881,421 1,892,200 Senior Notes In February 2010, we issued $900 million of 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 (the "2020 Notes"). Our proceeds were $900 million and were net of an issuance discount of $5.5 million. In addition, we incurred issuance costs of $6.4 million. Both the discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2020 Notes using the effective interest method. The 2020 Notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The effective interest rate including the discount and issuance costs was 4.92% . Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1, and commenced on August 1, 2010. In June 2014, we entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $900 million designated as a fair value hedge related to our 2020 Notes. The interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed interest rate on our 2020 Notes to a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. Under the terms of the swap, we will pay monthly interest at the one-month LIBOR interest rate plus a fixed number of basis points on the $900 million notional amount. In exchange, we will receive 4.75% fixed rate interest from the swap counterparties. See Note 5 for further details regarding our interest rate swap derivatives. 92  ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025 (the "2025 Notes"). Our proceeds were approximately $989.3 million which is net of an issuance discount of $10.7 million. In addition, we incurred issuance costs of $7.9 million. Both the discoun...

[See Note 7]:
NOTE 7. Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company has various lease agreements with other parties with terms up to 30 years. Non-cancelable, long-term leases may include provisions for maintenance, options to purchase and options to extend the terms. Rent expense on operating leases is included in equipment and other rents on the consolidated income statements. The Company uses the straight-line method to recognize rent expense on operating leases that include escalations over their terms. These amounts are shown in the table below. ------------------------------------ ------------ -- ---- ---- -- - -- Fiscal Years (Dollars in Millions) 2017 2016 2015 Rent Expense on Operating Leases (a) $ 78 $ 77 $ 86 (a) Prior year data has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. At December 2017, minimum rentals on land, buildings, track and equipment under operating leases are disclosed in the table below. Also, payments to Conrail for leases on shared rail infrastructure are included in these amounts. (See Note 12, Related Party Transactions). --------------------- --------- --- -------- -- ----------- --- --- - --- (Dollars in Millions) Operating Sublease Net Lease Years Leases Income Commitments 2018 $ 68 $ (3 ) $ 65 2019 64 (3 ) 61 2020 50 (3 ) 47 2021 45 (3 ) 42 2022 41 (3 ) 38 Thereafter 128 (6 ) 122 Total $ 396 $ (21 ) $ 375 Purchase Commitments CSXT has a commitment under a long-term maintenance program agreement that covers a portion of CSXT's fleet of locomotives. The program costs are based on the maintenance cycle for each covered locomotive, which is determined by the asset's age and type. Expected future costs may change as required maintenance schedules are revised and locomotives are placed into or removed from service. Under CSXT's current obligations, the agreement will expire no earlier than 2031. At the end of 2016, the future commitment totaled $4.9 billion and after modifications to the agreement and ordinary activity thr...

[See Note 16]:
Note 16. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 70

[See Note 6]:
(6) Interest rate swaps, settled upon the issuance of these notes in 2017, effectively set the interest rate on the $750 million notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 3.44%. Maturities of long-term debt during the fiscal years subsequent to November 30, 2018 are as follows (in millions): ---------- ------- ---- 2019 $ 77.1 2020 576.8 2021 326.8 2022 1,182.6 Thereafter 2,317.0 The consideration for our acquisition of RB Foods on August 17, 2017 totaled approximately $4.2 billion in cash (see note 2) and was funded with (a) borrowings under McCormick's $1.5 billion Term Loan Agreement described below; (b) amounts received from the offering of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of McCormick's senior unsecured notes described below; and (c) amounts received from the offering of McCormick's common stock non-voting, which closed on August 11, 2017 (see note 13). In connection with our entry into the agreement to acquire RB Foods, we entered into a commitment letter, dated July 18, 2017 (the "Commitment Letter"), under which certain banks agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") of up to $4.2 billion in the aggregate. On August 7, 2017, we entered into a Senior Unsecured Bridge Credit Agreement with certain financial institutions under which those financial institutions agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") for the purpose of providing the financing necessary to fund all or a portion of the consideration to be paid pursuant to the terms of the agreement related to the acquisition of RB Foods and related fees and expenses (the "Bridge Loan Commitment"). The Bridge Facility provided that the Bridge Loan Commitment would be reduced in equivalent amounts upon any incurrence by McCormick of, among other things, term loans and/or the issuance of equity or notes in a public offering or private placement prior to the consummation of the transaction, subject to certain exce...

[See Note 18]:
Note 18. Income Taxes 76

[see Note 6]:
(6) Interest rate swaps, settled upon the issuance of these notes in 2017, effectively set the interest rate on the $750 million notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 3.44%. Maturities of long-term debt during the fiscal years subsequent to November 30, 2018 are as follows (in millions): ---------- ------- ---- 2019 $ 77.1 2020 576.8 2021 326.8 2022 1,182.6 Thereafter 2,317.0 The consideration for our acquisition of RB Foods on August 17, 2017 totaled approximately $4.2 billion in cash (see note 2) and was funded with (a) borrowings under McCormick's $1.5 billion Term Loan Agreement described below; (b) amounts received from the offering of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of McCormick's senior unsecured notes described below; and (c) amounts received from the offering of McCormick's common stock non-voting, which closed on August 11, 2017 (see note 13). In connection with our entry into the agreement to acquire RB Foods, we entered into a commitment letter, dated July 18, 2017 (the "Commitment Letter"), under which certain banks agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") of up to $4.2 billion in the aggregate. On August 7, 2017, we entered into a Senior Unsecured Bridge Credit Agreement with certain financial institutions under which those financial institutions agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") for the purpose of providing the financing necessary to fund all or a portion of the consideration to be paid pursuant to the terms of the agreement related to the acquisition of RB Foods and related fees and expenses (the "Bridge Loan Commitment"). The Bridge Facility provided that the Bridge Loan Commitment would be reduced in equivalent amounts upon any incurrence by McCormick of, among other things, term loans and/or the issuance of equity or notes in a public offering or private placement prior to the consummation of the transaction, subject to certain exce...

[See Note 5]:
NOTE 5. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Hedge Accounting and Hedging Programs We recognize derivative instruments and hedging activities as either assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and measure them at fair value. Gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value are accounted for depending on the use of the derivative and whether it is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. We evaluate hedge effectiveness at the inception of the hedge prospectively as well as retrospectively, and record any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments in interest and other income (expense), net on our Consolidated Statements of Income. The net gain (loss) recognized in interest and other income (expense), net for cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness was insignificant for all fiscal years presented. The time value of purchased contracts is recorded in interest and other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The bank counterparties to these contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance which are largely mitigated with collateral security agreements that provide for collateral to be received or posted when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. In addition, we enter into master netting arrangements which have the ability to further limit credit-related losses with the same counterparty by permitting net settlement of transactions. Balance Sheet Hedging--Hedges of Foreign Currency Assets and Liabilities We also hedge our net recognized foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that the value of these assets and liabilities will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. These contracts hedge assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are carried at fair value with changes in the fair value recorded to interest...

[see Note 3]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[see Note 18]:
Note 18. Income Taxes 76

[see Note 7]:
NOTE 7. Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company has various lease agreements with other parties with terms up to 30 years. Non-cancelable, long-term leases may include provisions for maintenance, options to purchase and options to extend the terms. Rent expense on operating leases is included in equipment and other rents on the consolidated income statements. The Company uses the straight-line method to recognize rent expense on operating leases that include escalations over their terms. These amounts are shown in the table below. ------------------------------------ ------------ -- ---- ---- -- - -- Fiscal Years (Dollars in Millions) 2017 2016 2015 Rent Expense on Operating Leases (a) $ 78 $ 77 $ 86 (a) Prior year data has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. At December 2017, minimum rentals on land, buildings, track and equipment under operating leases are disclosed in the table below. Also, payments to Conrail for leases on shared rail infrastructure are included in these amounts. (See Note 12, Related Party Transactions). --------------------- --------- --- -------- -- ----------- --- --- - --- (Dollars in Millions) Operating Sublease Net Lease Years Leases Income Commitments 2018 $ 68 $ (3 ) $ 65 2019 64 (3 ) 61 2020 50 (3 ) 47 2021 45 (3 ) 42 2022 41 (3 ) 38 Thereafter 128 (6 ) 122 Total $ 396 $ (21 ) $ 375 Purchase Commitments CSXT has a commitment under a long-term maintenance program agreement that covers a portion of CSXT's fleet of locomotives. The program costs are based on the maintenance cycle for each covered locomotive, which is determined by the asset's age and type. Expected future costs may change as required maintenance schedules are revised and locomotives are placed into or removed from service. Under CSXT's current obligations, the agreement will expire no earlier than 2031. At the end of 2016, the future commitment totaled $4.9 billion and after modifications to the agreement and ordinary activity thr...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Com...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS TubeMogul On December 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we are continuing to integrate TubeMogul into our Digital Marketing reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to TubeMogul's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of December 19, 2016. During fiscal 2017, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to tangible assets, liabilities assumed, and their related impact to goodwill. The total final purchase price for TubeMogul was $560.8 million of which $348.4 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $113.1 million to identifiable intangible assets and $99.3 million to net assets acquired. Fotolia On January 27, 2015, we completed our acquisition of privately held Fotolia, a leading marketplace for royalty-free photos, images, graphics and HD videos. During fiscal 2015, we integrated Fotolia into our Digital Media reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Fotolia's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of January 27, 2015. During fiscal 2015, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to assumed intangible assets, calculation of deferred tax assets, liabilities and equity awards. The total final purchase price for Fotolia was $807.5 million of which $745.1 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $204.4 million to identifiable intangible assets and $142.0 million to net liabilities assumed. We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. Pro forma information has n...

[see Note 13]:
Note 13 Net Investment in Operating Leases FS-35

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Com...

[See Note 16]:
Note 16. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 70

[Notes 3 and 10]:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[Notes 1 and 3]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Com...

[Notes 2 and 7]:
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS TubeMogul On December 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we are continuing to integrate TubeMogul into our Digital Marketing reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to TubeMogul's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of December 19, 2016. During fiscal 2017, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to tangible assets, liabilities assumed, and their related impact to goodwill. The total final purchase price for TubeMogul was $560.8 million of which $348.4 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $113.1 million to identifiable intangible assets and $99.3 million to net assets acquired. Fotolia On January 27, 2015, we completed our acquisition of privately held Fotolia, a leading marketplace for royalty-free photos, images, graphics and HD videos. During fiscal 2015, we integrated Fotolia into our Digital Media reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Fotolia's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of January 27, 2015. During fiscal 2015, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to assumed intangible assets, calculation of deferred tax assets, liabilities and equity awards. The total final purchase price for Fotolia was $807.5 million of which $745.1 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $204.4 million to identifiable intangible assets and $142.0 million to net liabilities assumed. We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. Pro forma information has n...

['s participation in the EIM began on October 1, 2016.  The EIM allows for rebalancing supply and demand in 15-minute blocks with dispatching every five minutes before the energy is needed, instead of the traditional one hour blocks.  APS expects that its participation in EIM will lower its fuel costs, improve visibility and situational awareness for system operations in the Western Interconnection power grid, and improve integration of APS’s renewable resources.

Regulatory Matters

Rate Matters.  APS needs timely recovery through rates of its capital and operating expenditures to maintain its financial health.  APS’s retail rates are regulated by the ACC and its wholesale electric rates (primarily for transmission) are regulated by FERC.  See Note 3 for information on APS’s FERC rates.

On June 1, 2016, APS filed an application with the ACC for an annual increase in retail base rates of $165.9 million. This amount excluded amounts that were then collected on customer bills through adjustor mechanisms. The application requested that some of the balances in these adjustor accounts (aggregating to approximately $267.6 million as of December 31, 2015) be transferred into base rates through the ratemaking process. This transfer would not have had an incremental effect on average customer bills. The average annual customer bill impact of APS’s request was an increase of 5.74% (the average annual bill impact for a typical APS residential customer was 7.96%). See Note 3 for details regarding the principal provisions of APS']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Com...

[" above for information regarding 4CA.

58

Table of Contents

Key Financial Drivers

In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below.  We closely monitor these factors to plan for the Company’s current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and forecasts appropriately.

Electric Operating Revenues.  For the years 2015 through 2017, retail electric revenues comprised approximately 95% of our total electric operating revenues.  Our electric operating revenues are affected by customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, distributed energy additions, electricity rates and tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms.  These revenue transactions are affected by the availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale market conditions, including competition, demand and prices.

Actual and Projected Customer and Sales Growth.  Retail customers in APS’s service territory increased 1.8% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year.  For the three years 2015 through 2017, APS’s customer growth averaged 1.5% per year. We currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5 - 2.5% for 2018 and to average in the range of 2 - 3% for 2018 through 2020 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions in Arizona.

Retail electricity sales in kWh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, decreased 0.3% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year. Improving economic conditions and customer growth were more than offset by energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, distributed renewable generation initiatives and one fewer day of sales due to the leap year in 2016.  For the three years 2015 through 2017, APS experienced annual increases in retail electricity sales averaging 0.1%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations.  We currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kWh will increase in the range of 0.5 - 1.5% for 2018 and increase on average in the range of 0.5 - 1.5% during 2018 through 2020, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations.  A slower recovery of the Arizona economy or acceleration of the expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives could further impact these estimates.

Actual sales growth, excluding weather-related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in DG, and responses to retail price changes.  Based on past experience, a reasonable range of variation in our kWh sales projections attributable to such economic factors under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to approximately $10 million.

Weather.  In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal weather patterns based on historical data.  Historically, extreme weather variations have resulted in annual variations in net income in excess of $20 million.  However, our experience indicates that the more typical variations from normal weather can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of up to $10 million.

Fuel and Purchased Power Costs.  Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales volumes, existing contracts for purchased power and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing market

59

Table of Contents

prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, changes in our generation resource allocation, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related amortization.

Operations and Maintenance Expenses.  Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by customer and sales growth, power plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, unplanned outages, planned outages (typically scheduled in the spring and fall), renewable energy and demand side management related expenses (which are offset by the same amount of operating revenues) and other factors. See Note 2 for discussion on new accounting guidance related to the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost.

Depreciation and Amortization Expenses.  Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted by net additions to utility plant and other property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution facilities), and changes in depreciation and amortization rates.  See "]:
(4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins represent EBITDA or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company...

[" below for information regarding the planned additions to our facilities and income tax impacts related to bonus depreciation.

Property Taxes.  Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are affected by the value of property in-service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates.  The average property tax rate in Arizona for APS, which owns essentially all of our property, was 11.2% of the assessed value for 2017, 11.2% for 2016 and 11.0% for 2015.  We expect property taxes to increase as we add new generating units and continue with improvements and expansions to our existing generating units and transmission and distribution facilities.

Income Taxes.  Income taxes are affected by the amount of pretax book income, income tax rates, certain deductions and non-taxable items, such as AFUDC.  In addition, income taxes may also be affected by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted and is generally effective on January 1, 2018. Changes which will impact the Company include a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 21%, revisions to the rules related to tax bonus depreciation, limitations on interest deductibility and an associated exception for certain public utilities, and requirements that certain excess deferred tax amounts of regulated utilities be normalized. (See Note 4 for details of the impacts on the Company as of December 31, 2017.) In APS']:
(11) Filed with Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 on February 6, 2017 and incorporated herein by reference. # Filed electronically with the Report. 157

['s positions on a solar net metering ballot initiative in Arizona; and

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $1 million related to miscellaneous other factors.

Depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization expenses were $47 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily related to increased plant in service of $32 million and increased depreciation and amortization rates of $19 million, partially offset by the regulatory deferral of the canceled capital projects associated with the expected Navajo Plant retirement of $5 million.

Taxes other than income taxes.  Taxes other than income taxes were $17 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily due to higher property values and the amortization of our property tax deferral regulatory asset.

All other income and expenses, net.  All other income and expenses, net, were $6 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily due to the absence of a gain on sale of a transmission line, which occurred in 2016.

Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction.  Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, increased $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year, primarily because of higher debt balances in the current year.

Income taxes.  Income taxes were $19 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily due to the effects of higher pretax income in the current year and the effects of the federal tax reform, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate primarily due to stock compensation. The stock compensation guidance requires all excess income tax benefits and deficiencies arising from share-based payments to be recognized in earnings in the period they occur, which causes effective tax rate fluctuations when stock compensation payouts occur.

63

Table of Contents

Operating Results – 2016 compared with 2015.

Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $442 million, compared with $437 million for the prior year.  The results reflect an increase of approximately $4 million for the regulated electricity segment primarily due to higher transmission revenues, higher retail revenues due to customer growth and changes in customer usage patterns and related pricing, partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expense primarily related to transmission, distribution and customer service costs.

The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- ---- ---- ---------- ----- --- - - --

 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2016 2015 Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Regulated Electricity Segment:
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 2,407 $ 2,391 $ 16
Operations and maintenance (906 ) (868 ) (38 )
Depreciation and amortization (485 ) (494 ) 9
Taxes other than income taxes (166 ) (172 ) 6
All other income and expenses, net 35 19 16
Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (186 ) (179 ) (7 )
Income taxes (237 ) (239 ) 2
Less income related to noncontrolling interests (Note 18) (19 ) (19 ) —
Regulated electricity segment income 443 439 4
All other (1 ) (2 ) 1
Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 442 $ 437 $ 5

64

Table of Contents

Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses.  Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $16 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year.  The following table summarizes the major components of this change:

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -- ------------------------------- --- ---------- --- --- - - --

 Increase (Decrease)
 Operatingrevenues Fuel andpurchasedpower expenses Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Lost fixed cost recovery $ 17 $ — $ 17
Effects of weather 6 2 4
Transmission revenues (Note 3):
Higher transmission revenues 27 — 27
FERC disallowance (12 ) — (12 )
Higher retail revenues due to changes in customer usage patterns and related pricing 10 — 10
Changes in net fuel and purchased power costs, including off-system sales margins and related deferrals (15 ) (17 ) 2
Palo Verde system benefits charge (offset in depreciation and amortization, see Note 3) (14 ) — (14 )
Lower demand side management regulatory surcharges and renewable energy regulatory surcharges and purchased power partially offset in operations and maintenance costs (16 ) (1 ) (15 )
Miscellaneous items, net (6 ) (3 ) (3 )
Total $ (3 ) $ (19 ) $ 16

Operations and maintenance.  Operations and maintenance expenses increased $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily because of:

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $16 million for transmission, distribution, and customer service costs primarily related to increased maintenance costs and implementation of new systems;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $9 million primarily for costs to support the company']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Com...

['s total dividends paid per share of common stock were $2.66 per share, which resulted in dividend payments of $290 million.

On November 30, 2017, Pinnacle West issued $300 million of 2.25% unsecured senior notes that mature on November 30, 2020.  The net proceeds from the sale were used to repay our $125 million term loan and for general corporate purposes.

On March 21, 2017, APS issued an additional $250 million par amount of its outstanding 4.35% senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2045.  The net proceeds from the sale were used to refinance commercial paper borrowings and to replenish cash temporarily used to fund capital expenditures.

On September 11, 2017, APS issued $300 million of 2.95% senior unsecured notes that mature on September 15, 2027. The net proceeds from the sale were used to refinance commercial paper and other indebtedness and to replenish cash used to fund capital expenditures.

On November 30, 2017, PNW contributed $150 million to APS in the form of an equity infusion.  APS used this contribution to repay short-term indebtedness, to finance capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes.

70

Table of Contents

Available Credit Facilities. Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities in order to enhance liquidity and provide credit support for their commercial paper programs.

At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle West had a $200 million facility that matures in May 2021. Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of the facility up to a maximum of $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders.  At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle West had no outstanding borrowings under its credit facility, no letters of credit outstanding and $29.4 million of commercial paper borrowings.

On July 31, 2017, Pinnacle West amended its 364-day unsecured revolving credit facility to increase its capacity from $75 million to $125 million, and to extend the termination date of the facility from August 30, 2017 to July 30, 2018.  Borrowings under the facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.80% per annum. At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle West had $66 million outstanding under the facility.

On June 29, 2017, APS replaced its $500 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in September 2020, with a new $500 million facility that matures in June 2022.

At December 31, 2017, APS had two revolving credit facilities totaling $1 billion, including a $500 million credit facility that matures in May 2021 and the above-mentioned $500 million facility. APS may increase the amount of each facility up to a maximum of $700 million, for a total of $1.4 billion, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders. Interest rates are based on APS’s senior unsecured debt credit ratings. These facilities are available to support APS’s $500 million commercial paper program, for bank borrowings or for issuances of letters of credit. At December 31, 2017, APS had no commercial paper outstanding and no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under its revolving credit facilities.

 See "]:
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS TubeMogul On December 19, 2016, we completed our acquisition of TubeMogul, a publicly held video advertising platform company. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we are continuing to integrate TubeMogul into our Digital Marketing reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to TubeMogul's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of December 19, 2016. During fiscal 2017, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to tangible assets, liabilities assumed, and their related impact to goodwill. The total final purchase price for TubeMogul was $560.8 million of which $348.4 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $113.1 million to identifiable intangible assets and $99.3 million to net assets acquired. Fotolia On January 27, 2015, we completed our acquisition of privately held Fotolia, a leading marketplace for royalty-free photos, images, graphics and HD videos. During fiscal 2015, we integrated Fotolia into our Digital Media reportable segment. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Fotolia's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of January 27, 2015. During fiscal 2015, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management's estimates and assumptions in regards to assumed intangible assets, calculation of deferred tax assets, liabilities and equity awards. The total final purchase price for Fotolia was $807.5 million of which $745.1 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $204.4 million to identifiable intangible assets and $142.0 million to net liabilities assumed. We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. Pro forma information has n...

[" in Note 10 for a discussion of APS’s separate outstanding letters of credit.
Other Financing Matters.  See Note 16 for information related to the change in our margin and collateral accounts.

Debt Provisions

Pinnacle West’s and APS’s debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements include maximum debt to capitalization ratios.  Pinnacle West and APS comply with this covenant.  For both Pinnacle West and APS, this covenant requires that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%.  At December 31, 2017, the ratio was approximately 50% for Pinnacle West and 47% for APS.  Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could "]:
Note 10. Stockholders' Equity Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As of December 31, 2017, we are authorized to issue 5,000 million shares of Class A common stock and 4,141 million shares of Class B common stock, each with a par value of $0.000006 per share. Holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock are entitled to dividends when, as and if, declared by our board of directors, subject to the rights of the holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights to dividends. As of December 31, 2017, we have not declared any dividends and our credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. The holder of each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote, while the holder of each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. Shares of our Class B common stock are convertible into an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock and generally convert into shares of our Class A common stock upon transfer. Class A common stock and Class B common stock are referred to as common stock throughout the notes to these financial statements, unless otherwise noted. As of December 31, 2017, there were 2,397 million shares and 509 million shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, respectively, issued and outstanding. Abandonment of the Reclassification In September 2017, our board of directors decided to abandon the proposal to create a new class of non-voting capital stock (Class C capital stock) and the intention to issue a dividend of two shares of Class C capital stock for each outstanding share of Class A and Class B common stock (the Reclassification). As a result, we will not proceed with the filing of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation which was approved by our stockholders on June 20, 2016. 77 Share Repurchase Program In November 2016, our board of directors authorized a $6.0 b...

['s rates and charges, in order to determine if there is sufficient evidence to warrant a full-scale rate hearing.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

APS has several recovery mechanisms in place that provide more timely recovery to APS of its fuel and transmission costs, and costs associated with the promotion and implementation of its demand side management and renewable energy efforts and customer programs.  These mechanisms are described more fully below and in Note 3.

SCR Cost Recovery. On December 29, 2017, in accordance with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, APS filed a Notice of Intent to file its SCR Rate Rider to permit recovery of costs associated with the installation of SCR equipment at Four Corners Units 4 and 5.  APS intends to file the SCR Rate Rider in April 2018. Consistent with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the rate rider filing will be narrow in scope and will address only costs associated with this specific environmental compliance equipment. Also, as provided for in the 2017 Rate Case Decision, APS will request that the rate rider become effective no later than January 1, 2019.

Renewable Energy.  The ACC approved the RES in 2006.  The renewable energy requirement is 8% of retail electric sales in 2018 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025.  In APS’s 2009 general retail rate case settlement agreement, APS agreed to exceed the RES standards, committing to use APS’s best efforts

53

Table of Contents

to have 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources in service by year-end 2015, in addition to its RES renewable resource commitments.  APS met its settlement commitment and overall RES target for 2017. A component of the RES targets development of distributed energy systems. For additional information, see “Business of Arizona Public Service Company-Energy Sources and Resource Planning - Current and Future Resources-Renewable Energy Standard.”

On July 1, 2016, APS filed its 2017 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of approximately $150 million. APS’s budget request included additional funding to process the high volume of residential rooftop solar interconnection requests and also requested a permanent waiver of the residential distributed energy requirement for 2017 contained in the RES rules. On April 7, 2017, APS filed an amended 2017 RES Implementation Plan and updated budget request which included the revenue neutral transfer of specific revenue requirements into base rates in accordance with the 2017 Settlement Agreement.  On August 15, 2017, the ACC approved the 2017 RES Implementation Plan.

On June 30, 2017, APS filed its 2018 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of approximately $90 million.  APS’s budget request supports existing approved projects and commitments and includes the anticipated transfer of specific revenue requirements into base rates in accordance with the 2017 Settlement Agreement and also requests a permanent waiver of the residential distributed energy requirement for 2018 contained in the RES rules. APS']:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

[").  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. See Note 3 for more information on the RES and the CREST.

Demand Side Management.  In December 2009, Arizona regulators placed an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy.  The ACC initiated an Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Electric Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020.  The 22% figure represents the cumulative reduction in future energy usage through 2020 attributable to energy efficiency initiatives.  This standard became effective on January 1, 2011.

54

Table of Contents

On June 1, 2016, APS filed its 2017 DSM Implementation Plan, in which APS proposed programs and measures that specifically focus on reducing peak demand, shifting load to off-peak periods and educating customers about strategies to manage their energy and demand.  The requested budget in the 2017 DSM Implementation Plan is $62.6 million.  On January 27, 2017, APS filed an updated and modified 2017 DSM Implementation Plan that incorporated the proposed $4 million Residential Demand Response, Energy Storage and Load Management Program that was filed with the ACC on December 5, 2016 and requested that the budget for the 2017 DSM Implementation Plan be increased to $66.6 million. On August 15, 2017, the ACC approved the amended 2017 DSM Implementation Plan.

On September 1, 2017, APS filed its 2018 DSM Implementation Plan, which proposes modifications to the demand side management portfolio to better meet system and customer needs by focusing on peak demand reductions, storage, load shifting and demand response programs in addition to traditional energy savings measures. The 2018 DSM Implementation Plan seeks a reduced requested budget of $52.6 million and requests a waiver of the Electric Energy Efficiency Standard for 2018. On November 14, 2017, APS filed an amended 2018 DSM Implementation Plan, which revised the allocations between budget items to address customer participation levels, but kept the overall budget at $52.6 million. See Note 3 for more information on demand side management.

Tax Expense Adjustor Mechanism and FERC Tax Filing. As part of the 2017 Settlement Agreement, the parties agreed to a rate adjustment mechanism to address potential federal income tax reform and enable the pass-through of certain income tax effects to customers. On December 22, 2017 the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) was enacted.  This legislation made significant changes to the federal income tax laws including a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.

On January 8, 2018, APS filed an application with the ACC requesting that the TEAM be implemented in two steps. The first addresses the change in the marginal federal tax rate from 35% to 21% resulting from the Tax Act and, if approved, would reduce rates by $119.1 million annually through an equal cents per kWh credit. APS asked that this decrease become effective February 1, 2018. On February 22, 2018, the ACC approved the reduction of rates by $119.1 million annually through an equal cents per kWh credit applied to all but a small subset of customers who are taking service under specially-approved tariffs. The rate reduction will be effective March 1, 2018.

The second step will address the amortization of excess deferred taxes previously collected from customers. APS is analyzing the final impact of the Tax Act provisions related to deferred taxes and intends to make a second TEAM filing later in 2018.
The TEAM expressly applies to APS']:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

['s recent general retail rate case, the ACC approved a Tax Expense Adjustor Mechanism which will be used to pass through the income tax effects to retail customers of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. (See Note 3 for details of the TEAM.)

Interest Expense.  Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest rates on that debt (see Note 6).  The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are expected to be our capital expenditures, long-term debt maturities, equity issuances and internally generated cash flow.  AFUDC offsets a portion of interest expense while capital projects are under construction.  We stop accruing AFUDC on a project when it is placed in commercial operation.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Pinnacle West’s only reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution.

Operating Results – 2017 compared with 2016.

Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $488 million, compared with $442 million for the prior year.  The results reflect an increase of

60

Table of Contents

approximately $48 million for the regulated electricity segment primarily due to higher revenue resulting from the retail regulatory settlement effective August 19, 2017, higher transmission revenues, higher retail revenues due to customer growth and higher average effective prices due to customer usage patterns and changes relating to customer program eligibility, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization primarily due to increased plant in service and higher depreciation and amortization rates.

The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders by business segment compared with the prior year:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- ---- ---- ---------- ----- --- - - ---

 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2017 2016 Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Regulated Electricity Segment:
Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses $ 2,561 $ 2,407 $ 154
Operations and maintenance (911 ) (906 ) (5 )
Depreciation and amortization (532 ) (485 ) (47 )
Taxes other than income taxes (183 ) (166 ) (17 )
All other income and expenses, net 29 35 (6 )
Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (198 ) (186 ) (12 )
Income taxes (Note 4) (256 ) (237 ) (19 )
Less income related to noncontrolling interests (Note 18) (19 ) (19 ) —
Regulated electricity segment income 491 443 48
All other (3 ) (1 ) (2 )
Net Income Attributable to Common Shareholders $ 488 $ 442 $ 46

61

Table of Contents

Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses.  Regulated electricity segment operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses were $154 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year.  The following table summarizes the major components of this change:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- -- ------------------------------- --- ---------- --- -- - - ---

 Increase (Decrease)
 Operatingrevenues Fuel andpurchasedpower expenses Net change
 (dollars in millions)
Impacts of retail regulatory settlement effective August 19, 2017 (Note 3) $ 55 $ — $ 55
Transmission revenues (Note 3):
Higher transmission revenues 30 — 30
Absence of 2016 FERC disallowance 12 — 12
Higher retail revenue due to customer growth and higher average effective prices due to customer usage patterns and changes relating to customer program participation (a) 21 (3 ) 24
Lost fixed cost recovery 14 — 14
Effects of weather 9 3 6
Changes in net fuel and purchased power costs, including off-system sales margins and related deferrals (83 ) (92 ) 9
Higher demand side management regulatory surcharges and renewable energy regulatory surcharges and purchased power, partially offset in operations and maintenance costs 9 2 7
Miscellaneous items, net (3 ) — (3 )
Total $ 64 $ (90 ) $ 154

--- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) Partially offset by the impacts of efficiency programs and distributed generation.

Operations and maintenance.  Operations and maintenance expenses increased $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the prior year primarily because of:

- ------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $10 million for employee benefit costs;

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $9 million for costs primarily related to information technology and other corporate support;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $8 million related to costs for demand-side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory programs, which is partially offset in operating revenues and purchased power;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $5 million related to the Navajo Plant capital projects canceled due to the expected plant retirement, which were deferred for regulatory recovery in depreciation;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $12 million for lower Palo Verde operating costs;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $11 million in fossil generation costs primarily due to less planned outage activity in the current year and lower Navajo Generating Plant costs;

62

Table of Contents

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $5 million primarily due to the absence of 2016 costs to support the Company']:
(3) This reflects the impact of extending the useful lives of equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions, net of the impact of additional depreciation associated with the fair value mark-up of such equipment. --- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (4) This reflects additional costs recorded in cost of rental equipment sales associated with the fair value mark-up of rental equipment acquired in the RSC, NES and Neff acquisitions that was subsequently sold. --- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5) This reflects a reduction of interest expense associated with the fair value mark-up of debt acquired in the RSC acquisition. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (6) As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (7) This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets in connection with our restructuring programs. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, (benefit) provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our opera...

['s positions on a solar net metering ballot initiative in Arizona and increased political participation costs;

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $8 million in fossil generation costs primarily related to $33 million in higher planned outage costs, partially offset by $25 million of lower other fossil operating costs;

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $7 million for costs related to legal, regulatory, information systems and other corporate support;

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $5 million for employee benefit costs primarily related to increased pension, medical claims and other benefit costs;

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $5 million related to higher nuclear generation costs;

65

Table of Contents

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• An offsetting decrease of $13 million related to costs for demand-side management, renewable energy and similar regulatory programs, which is partially offset in operating revenues and purchased power; and

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $1 million related to miscellaneous other factors.

Additionally, stock compensation costs were flat compared to the prior year as a $12 million increase in costs was offset by a one-time $12 million reduction for the adoption of new stock compensation guidance (See Note 15);

Depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization expenses were $9 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily related to:

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $20 million related to the regulatory treatment of the Palo Verde sale leaseback lease extension;

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
• A decrease of $14 million due to lower Palo Verde decommissioning expense recovered through the system benefits charge (offset in operating revenues); and

- -------------------------------------------------------------
• An increase of $25 million due to increased plant in service.

Taxes other than income taxes.  Taxes other than income taxes were $6 million lower for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily due to lower assessed values resulting from a lower Arizona statutory rate, partially offset by higher property tax rates.

All other income and expenses, net.  All other income and expenses, net, were $16 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year primarily due to higher allowance for equity funds used during construction and the gain on sale of a transmission line.

Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction.  Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds used during construction, increased $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the prior year, primarily because of higher debt balances in the current year.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

Pinnacle West’s primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.  The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will be dependent on declaration by our Board of Directors and based on a number of factors, including our financial condition, payout ratio, free cash flow and other factors.

Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS and external debt and equity issuances.  An ACC order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40%.  As defined in the related ACC order, the common equity ratio is defined as total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt.  At December 31, 2017, APS’s common equity ratio, as defined, was 53%.  Its total shareholder equity was approximately $5.3 billion, and total capitalization was approximately $10.0 billion.  Under this order, APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if such payment would reduce its total shareholder equity below approximately $4.0 billion,

66

Table of Contents

assuming APS’s total capitalization remains the same.  This restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its ongoing cash needs or ability to pay dividends to shareholders.

APS’s capital requirements consist primarily of capital expenditures and maturities of long-term debt.  APS funds its capital requirements with cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, external debt financing and equity infusions from Pinnacle West.

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was enacted.  As a result of this legislation, bonus depreciation is no longer available for regulated public utility company property acquired, or that commenced construction, after September 27, 2017. The final legislative language contains a transition rule for property which was acquired, or under construction, prior to September 28, 2017 which would allow at least some part of APS’s capital projects under construction at that time to continue to qualify for bonus depreciation under pre-Act rules. However, because of current ambiguities regarding the scope of this transition rule, it is unclear how much of APS’s capital projects which were under construction prior to September 28, 2017, will qualify. The Company currently believes the continued availability of bonus depreciation for property under construction prior to September 28, 2017 will generate at least $60-$75 million of cash tax benefits over the next two years. These benefits may be higher if the current ambiguities in the legislative language are clarified in a manner which allows additional expenditures incurred after September 27, 2017, related to ongoing capital projects under construction as of that date, to qualify for bonus depreciation.  The cash generated by bonus depreciation is an acceleration of the tax benefits that APS would have otherwise received over 20 years and reduces rate base for ratemaking purposes. At Pinnacle West Consolidated, when coupled with a lower 21 percent corporate tax rate, the continued availability of bonus depreciation to this transition period property is expected to delay until 2019 full cash realization of approximately $85 million of currently unrealized Investment Tax Credits and other tax credits, which are recorded as a deferred tax asset on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017.

Summary of Cash Flows

The following tables present net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (dollars in millions):

Pinnacle West Consolidated

---------------------------------------------------- ------ ----- ---- ------ ---- ----- ------ - - -----

 2017 2016 2015
Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,118 $ 1,023 $ 1,094
Net cash flow used for investing activities (1,429 ) (1,252 ) (1,066 )
Net cash flow provided by financing activities 316 198 4
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 5 $ (31 ) $ 32

Arizona Public Service Company

--------------------------------------------------------- ------ ----- ---- ------ ---- ----- ------ - - -----

 2017 2016 2015
Net cash flow provided by operating activities $ 1,162 $ 1,010 $ 1,100
Net cash flow used for investing activities (1,401 ) (1,219 ) (1,060 )
Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities 244 196 (22 )
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 5 $ (13 ) $ 18

67

Table of Contents

 Operating Cash Flows

2017 Compared with 2016. Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $1,118 million in 2017 compared to $1,023 million in 2016. The increase of $95 million in net cash provided is primarily due to lower payments of operations and maintenance, fuel and purchased power costs and higher cash receipts, partially offset by no collateral posted in 2017 compared to $17 million returned in 2016. The difference between APS and Pinnacle West']:
Note 8. Long-term Debt In May 2016, we entered into a $2.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, and any amounts outstanding under this facility will be due and payable on May 20, 2021. As of December 31, 2017, no amounts had been drawn down and we were in compliance with the covenants under the facility. ------- -----------------------------
