================================================================================
CIK: 0001593538
Company Name: NAVIENT CORP
Filing Date: 2018-02-26
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-08-30 16:24:23
================================================================================

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Segment Earnings Summary Core Earnings Basis Business Services Segment of this Form 10-K. As a leading provider of asset recovery services, Pioneer Credit Recovery has a long track record of assisting individuals who default on their student loan payments to recover from the negative consequences of default. Since 2012, Navient and its subsidiaries have helped more than 261,000 borrowers successfully rehabilitate their loans.

On April 4, 2016, ED published the first part of a two-part RFP related to a new servicing platform for the DSLP. The first part of the RFP focused on screening candidates capabilities relative to certain published criteria. In July 2016, Navient was selected as one of three companies eligible to submit responses in the second part of the RFP process. In January 2017, Navient submitted its bid for ED s single servicing solution contract. While ED announced in May 2017 that it planned to select a single servicer for the DSLP, in August of 2017, the Department cancelled the prior RFP and announced a new upcoming solicitation for the FSA Next Generation Processing and Servicing Environment. Based upon the statements from ED, it is anticipated that the new environment will provide for a single data processing platform to house all student loan information while at the same time allowing for customer account servicing to be performed either by a single contract servicer or by multiple contract servicers. On February 20, 2018, ED issued Phase 1 of a new RFP entitled the Solicitation for the Next Generation Financial Services Environment which is intended to centralize student loan servicing on a single platform. Responses to Phase 1 are due by April 6, 2018.

At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Business Services segment had total assets of $649 million and $587 million, respectively.

Other Segment

Our Other segment primarily consists of activities of our holding company, including the repurchase of debt, our corporate liquidity portfolio, unallocated overhead, restructuring/other reorganization expenses, regulatory-related costs, and the deferred tax asset remeasurement loss recognized due to the enactment of the TCJA in the fourth quarter of 2017. We also include results from certain smaller wind-down operations within this segment.

Unallocated corporate overhead is comprised of costs related to executive management, the board of directors, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, compliance and risk management, and stock-based compensation expense. Unallocated information technology costs are related to infrastructure and operations.

At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Other segment had total assets of $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.

Measure of Profitability

We prepare financial statements and present financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, we also evaluate our business segments and present financial results on a basis that differs from GAAP. We refer to this different basis of presentation as Core Earnings. We provide this Core Earnings basis of presentation on a consolidated basis for each business segment because this is what we review internally when making management decisions regarding our performance and how we allocate resources. We also refer to this information in our presentations with credit rating agencies, lenders and investors. Because our Core Earnings basis of presentation corresponds to our segment financial presentations, we are required by GAAP to provide Core Earnings disclosure in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for our business segments.

 Core Earnings are not a substitute for reported results under GAAP. We use Core Earnings to manage our business segments because Core Earnings reflect adjustments to GAAP financial results for three items, discussed below, that are either related to the Spin-Off or create significant volatility mostly due to timing factors generally beyond the control of management. Accordingly, we believe that Core Earnings provide management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against the business plan or against results from prior periods. Consequently, we disclose this information because we believe it provides investors with additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely assessed by management. When compared to GAAP results, the three items we remove to result in our Core Earnings presentations are:

 1. Unrealized mark-to-market gains/losses resulting from our use of derivative instruments to hedge our economic risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment or do qualify for hedge accounting treatment but result in ineffectiveness;

 2. The accounting for goodwill and acquired intangible assets; and

 3. The financial results attributable to the operations of SLM BankCo prior to the Spin-Off and related restructuring and reorganization expense incurred in connection with the Spin-Off, including the restructuring expenses related to the restructuring initiative launched in second-quarter 2015 to simplify and streamline the Company’s management structure post-Spin-Off. For GAAP purposes, Navient reflected the deemed distribution of SLM BankCo on April 30, 2014. For “Core Earnings,” we exclude the consumer banking business (SLM BankCo) as if it had never been a part of Navient’s historical results prior to the deemed distribution of SLM BankCo on April 30, 2014.

While GAAP provides a uniform, comprehensive basis of accounting, for the reasons described above, our Core Earnings basis of presentation does not. Core Earnings are subject to certain general and specific limitations that investors should carefully consider. For example, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. Our Core Earnings are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Accordingly, our Core Earnings presentation does not represent a comprehensive basis of accounting. Investors, therefore, may not be able to compare our performance with that of other financial services companies based upon Core Earnings. Core Earnings results are only meant to supplement GAAP results by providing additional information regarding the operational and performance indicators that are most closely used by management, our board of directors, credit rating agencies, lenders and investors to assess performance.

Segment Results and Reconciliations to GAAP

 Year Ended December 31, 2017
------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ----- --------------- ------- ----- ----------------- - ----- --------------- ---- - --------------- - ---- ----------------- ----- - ------------------------- ----------- -------------------- --- - ---------- - --- - - --- - - ----- -
 Private Total Adjustments
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Education Loans Business Services Other Eliminations(1) “Core Earnings” Reclassifications Additions/ (Subtractions) Total Adjustments(2) Total GAAP
Interest income:
Education loans $ 2,679 $ 1,634 $ — $ — $ — $ 4,313 $ 69 $ (55 ) $ 14 $ 4,327
Other loans — — — 13 — 13 — — — 13
Cash and investments 30 4 — 9 — 43 — — — 43
Total interest income 2,709 1,638 — 22 — 4,369 69 (55 ) 14 4,383
Total interest expense 2,016 825 — 149 — 2,990 (8 ) (11 ) (19 ) 2,971
Net interest income (loss) 693 813 — (127 ) — 1,379 77 (44 ) 33 1,412
Less: provisions for loan losses 42 382 — 2 — 426 — — — 426
Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 651 431 — (129 ) — 953 77 (44 ) 33 986
Other income (loss):
Servicing revenue 49 10 579 — (348 ) 290 — — — 290
Asset recovery and business processing revenue — — 475 — — 475 — — — 475
Other income — — — 19 — 19 (77 ) 89 12 31
Gains on sales of loans and investments — — — 3 — 3 — — — 3
Losses on debt repurchases — — — (3 ) — (3 ) — — — (3 )
Total other income (loss) 49 10 1,054 19 (348 ) 784 (77 ) 89 12 796
Expenses:
Direct operating expenses 357 165 527 27 (348 ) 728 — — — 728
Overhead expenses — — — 238 — 238 — — — 238
Operating expenses 357 165 527 265 (348 ) 966 — — — 966
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — — — — — — 23 23 23
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — 29 — 29 — — — 29
Total expenses 357 165 527 294 (348 ) 995 — 23 23 1,018
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 343 276 527 (404 ) — 742 — 22 22 764
Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 124 99 190 78 — 491 — (19 ) (19 ) 472
Net income (loss) $ 219 $ 177 $ 337 $ (482 ) $ — $ 251 $ — $ 41 $ 41 $ 292

(1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment.

(2) “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:

 Year Ended December 31, 2017
------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------- - --- ----- - --- -
(Dollars in millions) Net Impact of Derivative Accounting Net Impact of Acquired Intangibles Total
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 33 $ — $ 33
Total other income (loss) 12 — 12
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — 23 23
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ 45 $ (23 ) 22
Income tax expense (benefit) (19 )
Net income (loss) $ 41

(3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment with the impact of the DTA Remeasurement Loss included in the Other segment.

 Year Ended December 31, 2016
------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ----- --------------- ------- ----- ----------------- - ----- --------------- ---- - --------------- - ---- ----------------- ----- - ------------------------- ----------- -------------------- ---- - ---------- - ---- - - --- - -----
 Private Total Adjustments
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Education Loans Business Services Other Eliminations(1) “Core Earnings” Reclassifications Additions/ (Subtractions) Total Adjustments(2) Total GAAP
Interest income:
Education loans $ 2,395 $ 1,587 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,982 $ 247 $ (114 ) $ 133 $ 4,115
Other loans — — — 9 — 9 — — — 9
Cash and investments 16 2 — 4 — 22 — — — 22
Total interest income 2,411 1,589 — 13 — 4,013 247 (114 ) 133 4,146
Total interest expense 1,592 705 — 113 — 2,410 31 — 31 2,441
Net interest income (loss) 819 884 — (100 ) — 1,603 216 (114 ) 102 1,705
Less: provisions for loan losses 43 383 — 3 — 429 — — — 429
Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 776 501 — (103 ) — 1,174 216 (114 ) 102 1,276
Other income (loss):
Servicing revenue 55 14 624 — (389 ) 304 — — — 304
Asset recovery and business processing revenue — — 390 — — 390 — — — 390
Other income — — — 14 — 14 (216 ) 326 110 124
Gains on debt repurchases — — — 1 — 1 — — — 1
Total other income (loss) 55 14 1,014 15 (389 ) 709 (216 ) 326 110 819
Expenses:
Direct operating expenses 401 167 524 28 (389 ) 731 — — — 731
Overhead expenses — — — 220 — 220 — — — 220
Operating expenses 401 167 524 248 (389 ) 951 — — — 951
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — — — — — — 36 36 36
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — — — — — — — —
Total expenses 401 167 524 248 (389 ) 951 — 36 36 987
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 430 348 490 (336 ) — 932 — 176 176 1,108
Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 158 129 182 (124 ) — 345 — 82 82 427
Net income (loss) $ 272 $ 219 $ 308 $ (212 ) $ — $ 587 $ — $ 94 $ 94 $ 681

(1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment.

(2) “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:

 Year Ended December 31, 2016
------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- --- ---------------------------------- - --- ----- - ---
(Dollars in millions) Net Impact of Derivative Accounting Net Impact of Acquired Intangibles Total
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 102 $ — $ 102
Total other income (loss) 110 — 110
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — 36 36
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ 212 $ (36 ) 176
Income tax expense (benefit) 82
Net income (loss) $ 94

(3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment with the impact of the DTA Remeasurement Loss included in the Other segment.

 Year Ended December 31, 2015
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- --------------- ------- ----- ----------------- - ----- ----------------- ---- - --------------- - ---- ------------------- ----- - ------------------------- ----------- -------------------- ---- - ---------- - ---- - - --- - ----- -
 Private Total Adjustments
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Education Loans Business Services Other Elimina- tions(1) “Core Earnings” Reclassi- fications Additions/ (Subtractions) Total Adjustments(2) Total GAAP
Interest income:
Education loans $ 2,112 $ 1,756 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,868 $ 650 $ (238 ) $ 412 $ 4,280
Other loans — — — 7 — 7 — — — 7
Cash and investments 6 — — 2 — 8 — — — 8
Total interest income 2,118 1,756 — 9 — 3,883 650 (238 ) 412 4,295
Total interest expense 1,245 680 — 112 — 2,037 37 — 37 2,074
Net interest income (loss) 873 1,076 — (103 ) — 1,846 613 (238 ) 375 2,221
Less: provisions for loan losses 46 538 — (3 ) — 581 — — — 581
Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 827 538 — (100 ) — 1,265 613 (238 ) 375 1,640
Other income (loss):
Servicing revenue 95 21 651 — (427 ) 340 — — — 340
Asset recovery and business processing revenue — — 367 — — 367 — — — 367
Other income — — 4 11 — 15 (613 ) 781 168 183
Gains (losses) on sales of loans and investments 12 (21 ) — — — (9 ) — — — (9 )
Gains on debt repurchases — — — 21 — 21 — — — 21
Total other income (loss) 107 — 1,022 32 (427 ) 734 (613 ) 781 168 902
Expenses:
Direct operating expenses 443 168 485 30 (427 ) 699 — — — 699
Overhead expenses — — — 219 — 219 — — — 219
Operating expenses 443 168 485 249 (427 ) 918 — — — 918
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — — — — — — 12 12 12
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — — — — — 32 32 32
Total expenses 443 168 485 249 (427 ) 918 — 44 44 962
Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) 491 370 537 (317 ) — 1,081 — 499 499 1,580
Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 183 137 199 (118 ) — 401 — 196 196 597
Net income (loss) from continuing operations 308 233 338 (199 ) — 680 — 303 303 983
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax expense — — — 1 — 1 — — — 1
Net income (loss) $ 308 $ 233 $ 338 $ (198 ) $ — $ 681 $ — $ 303 $ 303 $ 984

(1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment.

(2) “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:

 Year Ended December 31, 2015
------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------- --- - ----------------------------------- - --- ---------------------------------- - ----- - - ---
(Dollars in millions) Net Impact from Spin-Off of SLM BankCo Net Impact of Derivative Accounting Net Impact of Acquired Intangibles Total
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ — $ 375 $ — $ 375
Total other income (loss) — 168 — 168
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — 12 12
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses 32 — — 32
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ (32 ) $ 543 $ (12 ) 499
Income tax expense (benefit) 196
Net income (loss) $ 303

(3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment with the impact of the DTA Remeasurement Loss included in the Other segment.

Summary of Core Earnings Adjustments to GAAP

 Years Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ --- - ---- - --- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
“Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:
Net impact of the removal of SLM BankCo’s operations and restructuring and reorganization expense in connection with the Spin-Off(1) $ — $ — $ (32 )
Net impact of derivative accounting(2) 45 212 543
Net impact of goodwill and acquired intangible assets(3) (23 ) (36 ) (12 )
Net tax effect(4) 19 (82 ) (196 )
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ 41 $ 94 $ 303

(1) SLM BankCo’s operations and restructuring and other reorganization expense in connection with the Spin-Off: For “Core Earnings,” we have assumed the consumer banking business (SLM BankCo) was never a part of Navient’s historical results prior to the deemed distribution of SLM BankCo on April 30, 2014 and we have removed the restructuring and other reorganization expense incurred in connection with the Spin-Off, including the restructuring expenses related to the restructuring initiative launched in second-quarter 2015 to simplify and streamline the Company’s management structure post-Spin-Off. Excluding these items provides management with a useful basis from which to better evaluate results from ongoing operations against results from prior periods.

(2) Derivative accounting: “Core Earnings” exclude periodic unrealized gains and losses that are caused by the mark-to-market valuations on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under GAAP as well as the periodic unrealized gains and losses that are a result of ineffectiveness recognized related to effective hedges under GAAP. These unrealized gains and losses occur in our FFELP Loans, Private Education Loans and Other business segments. Under GAAP, for our derivatives that are held to maturity, the cumulative net unrealized gain or loss over the life of the contract will equal $0 except for Floor Income Contracts where the cumulative unrealized gain will equal the amount for which we sold the contract. In our “Core Earnings” presentation, we recognize the economic effect of these hedges, which generally results in any net settlement cash paid or received being recognized ratably as an interest expense or revenue over the hedged item’s life.

(3) Goodwill and acquired intangible assets: Our “Core Earnings” exclude goodwill and intangible asset impairment and amortization of acquired intangible assets.

(4) Net Tax Effect: Such tax effect is based upon our “Core Earnings” effective tax rate for the year.

16. Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited)

 2017
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --- - -------------- - --- ------------- - -------------- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions, except per share data) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter
Net interest income $ 340 $ 351 $ 355 $ 366
Less: provisions for loan losses 107 105 105 109
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 233 246 250 257
Other income 168 187 238 181
Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net (16 ) (25 ) 25 38
Operating expenses 238 230 238 260
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization expense 6 6 6 5
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — 29
Income tax expense 53 60 93 266
Net income (loss) attributable to Navient Corporation $ 88 $ 112 $ 176 $ (84 )
Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to Navient Corporation $ .31 $ .40 $ .65 $ (.32 )
Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to Navient Corporation $ .30 $ .39 $ .64 $ (.32 )

 2016
-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --- -------------- - --- ------------- - -------------- - ---
(Dollars in millions, except per share data) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter
Net interest income $ 486 $ 429 $ 412 $ 378
Less: provisions for loan losses 111 110 106 102
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses 375 319 306 276
Other income 159 151 174 218
Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net 1 (28 ) 137 6
Operating expenses 247 230 228 246
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization expense 4 6 12 13
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — —
Income tax expense 103 81 147 96
Net income attributable to Navient Corporation $ 181 $ 125 $ 230 $ 145
Basic earnings per common share attributable to Navient Corporation $ .53 $ .39 $ .74 $ .49
Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Navient Corporation $ .53 $ .38 $ .73 $ .48

Use of Estimates

Our financial reporting and accounting policies conform to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ( GAAP ). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Current market conditions increase the risk and complexity of the judgments in these estimates and actual results could differ from estimates. Key accounting policies that include the most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions include the allowance for loan losses, the effective interest rate method (amortization of education loan and debt premiums and discounts), goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment, fair value measurement, the consolidation of variable interest entities, and derivative accounting.

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Navient Corporation and its majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries and those Variable Interest Entities ( VIEs ) for which we are the primary beneficiary, after eliminating the effects of intercompany accounts and transactions.

We consolidate any VIEs where we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. A VIE is a legal entity that does not have sufficient equity at risk to finance its own operations, or whose equity holders do not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the entity, or whose equity holders do not share proportionately in the losses or benefits of the entity. The primary beneficiary of the VIE is the entity which has both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. As it relates to our securitizations and other secured borrowing facilities that are VIEs as of December 31, 2017, we are the servicer of the related education loan assets and own the Residual Interest of the securitization trusts and secured borrowing facilities. As a result, we are the primary beneficiary and consolidate those VIEs.

Fair Value Measurement

We use estimates of fair value in applying various accounting standards for our financial statements. Fair value measurements are used in one of four ways:

 • In the consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded in the consolidated statement of income;

 • In the consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded in the accumulated other comprehensive income section of the consolidated statement of changes in stockholders’ equity;

 • In the consolidated balance sheet for instruments carried at lower of cost or fair value with impairment charges recorded in the consolidated statement of income; and

 • In the notes to the financial statements.

Fair value is defined as the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing and able market participants. In general, our policy in estimating fair value is to first look at observable market prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets, where available. When these are not available, other inputs are used to model fair value such as prices of similar instruments, yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds, default rates and credit spreads, relying first on observable data from active markets. Depending on current market conditions, additional adjustments to fair value may be based on factors such as liquidity, credit, and bid/offer spreads. Transaction costs are not included in the determination of fair value. When possible, we seek to validate the model s output to market transactions. Depending on the availability of observable inputs and prices, different valuation models could produce materially different fair value estimates. The values presented may not represent future fair values and may not be realizable.

We categorize our fair value estimates based on a hierarchical framework associated with three levels of price transparency utilized in measuring financial instruments at fair value. Classification is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value of the instrument. The three levels are as follows:

 • Level 1 — Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access at the measurement date. The types of financial instruments included in level 1 are highly liquid instruments with quoted prices.

 • Level 2 — Inputs from active markets, other than quoted prices for identical instruments, are used to determine fair value. Significant inputs are directly observable from active markets for substantially the full term of the asset or liability being valued.

 • Level 3 — Pricing inputs significant to the valuation are unobservable. Inputs are developed based on the best information available. However, significant judgment is required by us in developing the inputs.

Loans

Loans, consisting primarily of federally insured education loans and Private Education Loans, that we have the ability and intent to hold for the foreseeable future are classified as held-for-investment and are carried at amortized cost. Amortized cost includes the unamortized premiums, discounts, and capitalized origination costs and fees, all of which are amortized to interest income as further discussed below. Loans which are held-for-investment also have an allowance for loan loss as needed. Any loans we have not classified as held-for-investment are classified as held-for-sale, and carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Loans are classified as held-for-sale when we have the intent and ability to sell such loans. Loans which are held-for-sale do not have the associated premium, discount, and capitalized origination costs and fees amortized into interest income. In addition, once a loan is classified as held-for-sale, there is no further adjustment to the loan s allowance for loan losses that existed immediately prior to the reclassification to held-for-sale.

Allowance for Loan Losses

Purchased Credit Impaired ( PCI ) Loans

Loans acquired with evidence of deterioration of credit quality since origination for which it is probable, at acquisition, that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments receivable are PCI loans accounted for under Accounting Standard Codification ( ASC ) 310-30, Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality. When considering whether evidence of credit quality deterioration exists as of the purchase date, the Company considers loan guarantees and the following credit attributes: delinquency status, use of forbearance, recent borrower FICO scores, use of loan modification programs, and borrowers who have filed for bankruptcy.

The Company aggregates loans with common risk characteristics into pools and accounts for each pool as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. The pools are initially recorded at fair value. The Company recognizes interest income based on each pool s effective interest rate which is based on our estimate of all cash flows expected to be received and includes an assumption about prepayment rates. The pools are tested quarterly for impairment by re-estimating the future cash flows to be received from the pools. If the new estimated cash flows result in a pool s effective interest rate increasing, then this new yield is used prospectively over the remaining life of the pool. If the new estimated cash flows result in a pool s effective interest rate decreasing, the pool is impaired and written down through a valuation allowance to maintain the effective interest rate. Loans classified as PCI do not have charge-offs reported nor are they reported as Trouble Debt Restructuring ( TDR ) loans.

Based on the credit attributes discussed above, we determined that $261 million principal amount of Private Education Loans acquired in 2017 are accounted for as PCI loans with a fair value and resulting carry value of $101 million as of the acquisition date. As of acquisition, this portfolio s contractually required payments receivable (the total undiscounted amount of all uncollected contractual principal and interest payments both past due and scheduled for the future, adjusted for prepayments) was $411 million with an estimated accretable yield (income expected to be recognized in future periods) of $108 million. As of December 31, 2017, the carrying amount was $97 million with no valuation allowance recorded.

Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans

Loans acquired that do not have evidence of credit deterioration since origination are recorded at fair value with no allowance for loan losses established at the acquisition date. Loan premiums and discounts are amortized as a part of interest income using the interest method under ASC 310-20, Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs. An allowance for loan losses would be established if incurred losses in the loans exceed the remaining unamortized discount recorded at the time of acquisition (i.e., the next two years of expected charge-offs as well as any additional TDR allowance required is greater than the remaining discount). As a result of this policy, to the extent that actual charge-offs exceed any related allowance for loan losses recognized post-acquisition, provision for loan losses is recorded when the loans are charged off. Charge-offs are recorded through the allowance for loan losses. In 2017, we acquired Private Education Loans with unpaid principal balance of $2.8 billion at a discount of $424 million and FFELP Loans with an unpaid principal balance of $3.5 billion at a discount of $47 million, that are accounted for under this policy. No allowance for loan losses has been established for these loans as of December 31, 2017, as the remaining purchased discount associated with the Private Education Loans of $392 million and FFELP Loans of $43 million as of December 31, 2017 remains greater than the incurred losses.

Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses

We consider a loan to be impaired when, based on current information, a loss has been incurred and it is probable that we will not receive all contractual amounts due. When making our assessment as to whether a loan is impaired, we also take into account more than insignificant delays in payment. We generally evaluate impaired loans on an aggregate basis by grouping similar loans. Impaired loans also include those loans which are individually assessed for impairment at a loan level, such as in a troubled debt restructuring ( TDR ). We maintain an allowance for loan losses at an amount sufficient to absorb losses incurred in our portfolios at the reporting date based on a projection of estimated probable credit losses incurred in the portfolio.

Our Private Education Loan portfolio contains TDR and non-TDR loans. For customers experiencing financial difficulty, certain Private Education Loans for which we have granted a forbearance of greater than three months, an interest rate reduction or an extended repayment plan are classified as TDRs. The allowance requirements are different based on these designations. In determining the allowance for loan losses on our non-TDR portfolio, we estimate the principal amount of loans that will default over the next two years (two years being the expected period between a loss event and default) and how much we expect to recover over time related to the defaulted amount. Expected defaults less our expected recoveries equal the allowance related to this portfolio. Our historical experience indicates that, on average, the time between the date that a customer experiences a default causing event (i.e., the loss trigger event) and the date that we charge off the unrecoverable portion of that loan is two years. Separately, for our TDR portfolio, we estimate an allowance amount sufficient to cover life-of-loan expected losses through an impairment calculation based on the difference between the loan s basis and the present value of expected future cash flows (which would include life-of-loan default and recovery assumptions) discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate. Our TDR portfolio is comprised mostly of loans with forbearance usage greater than three months and interest rate reductions. The separate allowance estimates for our TDR and non-TDR portfolios are combined into our total allowance for Private Education Loan losses.

In estimating both the non-TDR and TDR allowance amounts, we start with historical experience of customer default behavior. We make judgments about which historical period to start with and then make further judgments about whether that historical experience is representative of future expectations and whether additional adjustments may be needed to those historical default rates. We also take the economic environment into consideration when calculating the allowance for loan losses. We analyze key economic statistics and the effect we expect them to have on future defaults. Key economic statistics analyzed as part of the allowance for loan losses are primarily unemployment rates. Our allowance for loan losses is estimated using an analysis of delinquent and current accounts. Our model is used to estimate the likelihood that a loan may progress through the various delinquency stages and ultimately charge off. The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant changes. The estimate for the allowance for loan losses is subject to a number of assumptions. If actual future performance in delinquency, charge-offs and recoveries are significantly different than estimated, this could materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses on our income statement.

We determine the collectability of our Private Education Loan portfolio by evaluating certain risk characteristics. We consider school type, credit score (FICO), existence of a cosigner, loan status and loan seasoning as the key credit quality indicators because they have the most significant effect on our determination of the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. The type of school customers attend can have an impact on their graduation rate and job prospects after graduation and therefore affects their ability to make payments. Credit scores are an indicator of the credit worthiness of a customer and the higher the credit score the more likely it is the customer will be able to make all of their contractual payments. Loan status affects the credit risk because a past due loan is more likely to result in a credit loss than an up-to-date loan. Additionally, loans in a deferred payment status have different credit risk profiles compared with those in current payment status. Of the portfolio in repayment, loan seasoning is an important factor. It affects credit risk because a loan with a history of making payments generally has a lower incidence of default than a loan with a history of making infrequent or no payments. The existence of a cosigner lowers the likelihood of default. We monitor and update these credit quality indicators in the analysis of the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses on a quarterly basis.

To estimate the probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date, we use historical experience of customer payment behavior in connection with the key credit quality indicators and incorporate management expectations regarding macroeconomic and collection performance factors. Our model is based upon the most recent twelve months of actual collection experience as the starting point for the non-TDR portfolio and the most recent approximate 10 years for the TDR portfolio and applies expected macroeconomic changes and collection procedure changes to estimate expected losses caused by loss events incurred as of the balance sheet date. Our model for the non-TDR portfolio places a greater emphasis on the more recent default experience rather than the default experience for older historical periods, as we believe the more recent default experience is more indicative of the probable losses incurred in the loan portfolio today that will default over the next two years. The TDR portfolio uses a longer historical default experience since we are projecting life of loan remaining losses. Similar to estimating defaults, we use historical customer payment behavior to estimate the timing and amount of future recoveries on charged-off loans. We use judgment in determining whether historical performance is representative of what we expect to collect in the future. We then apply the default and collection rate projections to each category of loans. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, we review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. Additionally, we consider changes in laws and regulations that could potentially impact the allowance for loan losses. More judgment has been required over the last several years, compared with years prior, in light of the U.S. economy and its effect on our customers ability to pay their obligations. We believe that our model reflects recent customer behavior, loan performance, and collection performance, as well as expectations about economic factors.

Our collection policies allow for periods of nonpayment for customers requesting additional payment grace periods upon leaving school or experiencing temporary difficulty meeting payment obligations. This is referred to as forbearance status and is considered in our allowance for loan losses. The loss confirmation period is in alignment with our typical collection cycle and takes into account these periods of nonpayment.

Our allowance for Private Education Loan losses also provides for possible additional future charge-offs as they occur related to the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans. At the end of each month, for loans that are 212 days past due, we charge off the estimated loss of a defaulted loan balance. Actual recoveries are applied against the remaining loan balance that was not charged off. We refer to this remaining loan balance as the receivable for partially charged-off loans. If actual periodic recoveries are less than expected, the difference is immediately charged off through the allowance for loan losses with an offsetting reduction in the receivable for partially charged-off Private Education Loans. If actual periodic recoveries are greater than expected, they will be reflected as a recovery through the allowance for Private Education Loan losses once the cumulative recovery amount exceeds the cumulative amount originally expected to be recovered. Private Education Loans which defaulted between 2007 through March 31, 2015, experienced collection performance below our pre-financial crisis experience. As a result, we began building a reserve for shortfalls in recoveries until we could determine the long-term post-default recovery rate. In the second quarter of 2015, the portion of the loan amount charged off at default increased from 73 percent to 79 percent. This did not impact the provision for loan losses as previously this had been reserved through the allowance for loan losses. This change resulted in a $330 million reduction to the balance of the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

Allowance for FFELP Loan Losses

FFELP Loans are insured as to their principal and accrued interest in the event of default subject to a Risk Sharing level based on the date of loan disbursement. These insurance obligations are supported by contractual rights against the United States. For loans disbursed after October 1, 1993, and before July 1, 2006, we receive 98 percent reimbursement on all qualifying default claims. For loans disbursed on or after July 1, 2006, we receive 97 percent reimbursement. For loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993, we receive 100 percent reimbursement.

Similar to the allowance for Private Education Loan losses, the allowance for FFELP Loan losses uses historical experience of customer default behavior and a two-year loss confirmation period to estimate the credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio at the reporting date. We apply the default rate projections, net of applicable Risk Sharing, to each category for the current period to perform our quantitative calculation. Once the quantitative calculation is performed, we review the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and determine if qualitative adjustments need to be considered. For FFELP Loans that have lost their government insurance and have been charged off, any subsequent cash recoveries benefit the allowance for loan losses when received.

Investments

Our available-for-sale investment portfolio consists of investments that are carried at fair value, with the temporary changes in fair value carried as a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. The amortized cost of debt securities in this category is adjusted for premiums and accretion of discounts, which are amortized using the effective interest rate method. Other-than-temporary impairment is evaluated by considering several factors, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the security (considering factors such as adverse conditions specific to the security and ratings agency actions), and the intent and ability to retain the investment to allow for an anticipated recovery in fair value. The entire fair value loss on a security that is other-than-temporary impairment is recorded in earnings if we intend to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before the expected recovery of the loss. However, if the impairment is other-than-temporary, and those two conditions do not exist, the portion of the impairment related to credit losses is recorded in earnings and the impairment related to other factors is recorded in other comprehensive income. Securities classified as trading are accounted for at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income. Securities that we have the intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and are accounted for at amortized cost unless the security is determined to have an other-than-temporary impairment. In this case it is accounted for in the same manner described above.

We also have other investments, primarily a receivable for cash collateral posted to derivative counterparties which is accounted for at amortized cost in other investments.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents can include term federal funds, Eurodollar deposits, commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper, treasuries and money market funds with original terms to maturity of less than three months.

Restricted Cash and Investments

Restricted cash primarily includes amounts held in education loan securitization trusts and other secured borrowings. This cash must be used to make payments related to trust obligations. Amounts on deposit in these accounts are primarily the result of timing differences between when principal and interest is collected on the trust assets and when principal and interest is paid on trust liabilities. As such, changes in this balance are reflected in investing activities in the statement of cash flows.

Securities pledged as collateral related to our derivative portfolio, where the counterparty has rights to replace the securities, are classified as restricted. When the counterparty does not have these rights, the security is recorded in investments and disclosed as pledged collateral in the notes. Additionally, certain counterparties require cash collateral pledged to us to be segregated and held in restricted cash accounts.

Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets

Goodwill is not amortized but is tested periodically for impairment. We test goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1 at the reporting unit level, which is the same as or one level below a business segment. Goodwill is also tested at interim periods if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired.

We assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. If, after assessing relevant qualitative factors, we conclude that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit as of October 1 is less than its carrying amount, we will complete Step 1 of the goodwill impairment analysis. Step 1 consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to the reporting unit s carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, Step 2 in the goodwill impairment analysis is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. Step 2 of the goodwill impairment analysis compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill to the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in a manner consistent with determining goodwill in a business combination. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.

Acquired intangible assets include, but are not limited to, trade names, customer and other relationships, and non-compete agreements. Acquired intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to their estimated economic benefit. Finite-lived acquired intangible assets are reviewed for impairment using an undiscounted cash flow analysis when an event occurs or circumstances change indicating the carrying amount of a finite-lived asset or asset group may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of the asset or asset groups exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the fair value of the asset or asset group is determined using an acceptable valuation technique. An impairment loss would be recognized if the carrying amount of the asset
(or asset group) exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group. The impairment loss recognized would be the difference between the carrying amount and fair value. Indefinite-life acquired intangible assets are not amortized. We test these indefinite-life acquired intangible assets for impairment annually as of October 1 or at interim periods if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying value of these assets may be impaired. The annual or interim impairment test of indefinite-life acquired intangible assets is based primarily on a discounted cash flow analysis.

Securitization Accounting

Our securitizations use a two-step structure with a special purpose entity that legally isolates the transferred assets from us, even in the event of bankruptcy. Transactions receiving sale treatment are also structured to ensure that the holders of the beneficial interests issued are not constrained from pledging or exchanging their interests, and that we do not maintain effective control over the transferred assets. If these criteria are not met, then the transaction is accounted for as an on-balance sheet secured borrowing. In all cases, irrespective of whether they qualify as accounting sales our securitizations are legally structured to be sales of assets that isolate the transferred assets from us. If a securitization qualifies as a sale, we then assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of the securitization trust (VIE) and are required to consolidate such trust. If we are the primary beneficiary, then no gain or loss is recognized. See Consolidation of this Note 2 for additional information regarding the accounting rules for consolidation when we are the primary beneficiary of these trusts.

Irrespective of whether a securitization receives sale or on-balance sheet treatment, our continuing involvement with our securitization trusts is generally limited to:

 • Owning the equity certificates of certain trusts.

 • The servicing of the education loan assets within the securitization trusts, on both a pre- and post-default basis.

 • Our acting as administrator for the securitization transactions we sponsored, which includes remarketing certain bonds at future dates.

 • Our responsibilities relative to representation and warranty violations.

 • Temporarily advancing to the trust certain borrower benefits afforded the borrowers of education loans that have been securitized. These advances subsequently are returned to us in the next quarter.

 • Certain back-to-back derivatives entered into by us contemporaneously with the execution of derivatives by certain Private Education Loan securitization trusts.

 • The option held by us to buy certain delinquent loans from certain Private Education Loan securitization trusts.

 • The option to exercise the clean-up call and purchase the education loans from the trust when the asset balance is 10 percent or less of the original loan balance.

 • The option, on some trusts, to purchase education loans aggregating up to 10 percent of the trust’s initial pool balance.

 • The option (in certain trusts) to call rate reset notes in instances where the remarketing process has failed.

The investors of the securitization trusts have no recourse to our other assets should there be a failure of the trusts to pay when due. Generally, the only arrangements under which we have to provide financial support to the trusts are representation and warranty violations requiring the buyback of loans.

Under the terms of the transaction documents of certain trusts, we have, from time to time, exercised our options to purchase delinquent loans from Private Education Loan trusts, to purchase the remaining loans from trusts once the loan balance falls below 10 percent of the original amount, to purchase education loans up to 10 percent of the trust s initial balance, or to call rate reset notes. Certain trusts maintain financial arrangements with third parties also typical of securitization transactions, such as derivative contracts (swaps) and bond insurance policies that, in the case of a counterparty failure, could adversely impact the value of any Residual Interest.

We do not record servicing assets or servicing liabilities when our securitization trusts are accounted for as on-balance sheet secured financings. As of December 31, 2017, we have $25 million of servicing assets on our balance sheet, of which $11 million is related to Residual Interests in FFELP Loan securitization trusts we sold in 2013 and $14 million is related to the acquisition of Earnest in 2017.

Education Loan Interest Income

For loans classified as held-for-investment, we recognize education loan interest income as earned, adjusted for the amortization of premiums (which includes purchased premiums and capitalized direct origination costs), discounts and Repayment Borrower Benefits. These adjustments result in income being recognized based upon the expected yield of the loan over its life after giving effect to expected prepayments. We amortize premium and discount on education loans using a CPR which measures the rate at which loans in the portfolio pay down principal compared to their stated terms. In determining the CPR, we only consider payments made in excess of contractually required payments. This would include loan consolidation and other early payoff activity. For Repayment Borrower Benefits, the estimates of their effect on education loan yield are based on analyses of historical payment behavior of customers who are eligible for the incentives and its effect on the ultimate qualification rate for these incentives. We regularly evaluate the assumptions used to estimate the prepayment speeds and the qualification rates used for Repayment Borrower Benefits. In instances where there are changes to the assumptions, amortization is adjusted on a cumulative basis to reflect the change since the acquisition of the loan. Additionally, interest earned on education loans reflects potential non-payment adjustments in accordance with our uncollectible interest recognition policy as discussed further in Allowance for Loan Losses of this Note 2. We do not amortize any premiums, discounts or other adjustments to the basis of education loans when they are classified as held-for-sale. See Allowance for Loan Losses Purchased Credit Impaired ( PCI ) Loans and Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans of this Note 2 for discussion of the interest income methodology related to those portfolios.

Interest Expense

Interest expense is based upon contractual interest rates adjusted for the amortization of debt issuance costs, premiums and discounts. Our interest expense may also be adjusted for net payments/receipts related to interest rate and foreign currency swap agreements that qualify and are designated as hedges. Interest expense also includes the amortization of deferred gains and losses on closed hedge transactions that qualified as hedges. Amortization of debt issuance costs, premiums, discounts and terminated hedge-basis adjustments are recognized using the effective interest rate method.

Servicing Revenue

We perform loan servicing functions for third-parties in return for a servicing fee. Our compensation is typically based on a per-unit fee arrangement or a percentage of the loans outstanding. We recognize servicing revenues associated with these activities based upon the contractual arrangements as the services are rendered. We recognize late fees on third-party serviced loans as well as on loans in our portfolio according to the contractual provisions of the promissory notes, as well as our expectation of collectability.

Asset Recovery and Business Processing Revenue

Asset recovery fees are received for collections or rehabilitation of delinquent or defaulted debt on behalf of clients performed on a contingency basis. Revenue is earned and recognized upon the completion of rehabilitation activities or upon receipt of the delinquent customer funds.

We also receive fees from Guarantor agencies for performing default aversion services on delinquent loans prior to default. The fee is received when the loan is initially placed with us and we are obligated to provide such services for the remaining life of the loan for no additional fee. In the event that the loan defaults, in accordance with certain contracts, we are obligated to rebate a portion of the fee to the Guarantor agency in proportion to the principal and interest outstanding when the loan defaults. We defer the fees received, net of an estimate of future rebates owed due to subsequent defaults, and recognize such fees over the service period which is estimated to be the life of the loan.

In the third quarter of 2017, $47 million of previously deferred asset recovery revenue, net of a reserve, was recognized as revenue related to loans for which the Company performs these default aversion services. In the third quarter of 2017, the Company was notified that it would no longer perform these services after 2017 due to the termination of the related contract as of December 31, 2017. In accordance with GAAP, we recognized this previously deferred revenue during the third-quarter 2017 to reflect a shortened period over which it is expected to be earned.

Business processing fees are received generally based on processing transactions. Revenue is earned and recognized upon the completion of processing the transaction and in some cases also upon the processing of a payment.

Transfer of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities

We account for loan sales and debt repurchases in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance. Our securitizations and other secured borrowings are accounted for as on-balance sheet secured borrowings. See Securitization Accounting of this Note 2 for further discussion on the criteria assessed to determine whether a transfer of financial assets is a sale or a secured borrowing. If a transfer of loans qualifies as a sale, we derecognize the loan and recognize a gain or loss as the difference between the carrying basis of the loan sold and liabilities retained and the compensation received.

We periodically repurchase our outstanding debt in the open market or through public tender offers. We record a gain or loss on the early extinguishment of debt based upon the difference between the carrying cost of the debt and the amount paid to the third party and is net of hedging gains and losses when the debt is in a qualifying hedge relationship.

We recognize the results of a transfer of loans and the extinguishment of debt based upon the settlement date of the transaction.

Derivative Accounting

The accounting guidance for our derivative instruments, which primarily includes interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and Floor Income Contracts, requires that every derivative instrument, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, be recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability. Derivative positions are recorded as net positions by counterparty based on master netting arrangements exclusive of accrued interest and cash collateral held or pledged.

Many of our derivatives, mainly fixed to variable or variable to fixed interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps, qualify as effective hedges. For these derivatives, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged items (including the hedged risk and method for assessing effectiveness), as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions at the inception of the hedging relationship, is documented. Each derivative is designated to either a specific (or pool of) asset(s) or liability(ies) on the balance sheet or expected future cash flows, and designated as either a fair value or a cash flow hedge. Fair value hedges are designed to hedge our exposure to changes in fair value of a fixed rate or foreign denominated asset or liability, while cash flow hedges are designed to hedge our exposure to variability of either a floating rate asset s or liability s cash flows or an expected fixed rate debt issuance. For effective fair value hedges, both the derivative and the hedged item (for the risk being hedged) are marked-to-market with any difference reflecting ineffectiveness and recorded immediately in the statement of income. For effective cash flow hedges, the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax, and recognized in earnings in the same period as the earnings effects of the hedged item. The ineffective portion of a cash flow hedge is recorded immediately through earnings. The assessment of the hedge s effectiveness is performed at inception and on an ongoing basis, generally using regression testing. For hedges of a pool of assets or liabilities, tests are performed to demonstrate the similarity of individual instruments of the pool. When it is determined that a derivative is not currently an effective hedge, ineffectiveness is recognized for the full change in value of the derivative with no offsetting mark-to-market of the hedged item for the current period. If it is also determined the hedge will not be effective in the future, we discontinue the hedge accounting prospectively, cease recording changes in the fair value of the hedged item, and begin amortization of any basis adjustments that exist related to the hedged item.

We also have derivatives, primarily Floor Income Contracts and certain basis swaps, that we believe are effective economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. These derivatives are classified as trading and as a result they are marked-to-market through earnings with no consideration for the fair value fluctuation of the economically hedged item.

The gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net line item in the consolidated statements of income includes the unrealized changes in the fair value of our derivatives (except effective cash flow hedges which are recorded in other comprehensive income), the unrealized changes in fair value of hedged items in qualifying fair value hedges, as well as the realized changes in fair value related to derivative net settlements and dispositions that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Net settlement income/expense on derivatives that qualify as hedges are included with the income or expense of the hedged item (mainly interest expense).

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

We recognize stock-based compensation cost in our consolidated statements of income using the fair value based method. Under this method we determine the fair value of the stock-based compensation at the time of the grant and recognize the resulting compensation expense over the grant s vesting period. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures and as such, only those stock-based awards that we expect to vest are recorded. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical forfeitures of equity awards and adjust the rate to reflect changes in facts and circumstances, if any. Ultimately, the total expense recognized over the vesting period will equal the fair value of awards that actually vest.

Restructuring and Other Reorganization Expenses

From time to time we implement plans to restructure our business. In conjunction with these restructuring plans, involuntary benefit arrangements, disposal costs (including contract termination costs and other exit costs), as well as certain other costs that are incremental and incurred as a direct result of our restructuring plans, are classified as restructuring expenses in the consolidated statements of income.

The Company administers the Navient Corporation Employee Severance Plan and the Navient Corporation Executive Severance Plan for Senior Officers (collectively, the Severance Plan ). The Severance Plan provides severance benefits in the event of termination of the Company s full-time employees and part-time employees who work at least 24 hours per week. The Severance Plan establishes specified benefits based on base salary, job level immediately preceding termination and years of service upon involuntary termination of employment. The benefits payable under the Severance Plan relate to past service, and they accumulate and vest. Accordingly, we recognize severance expenses to be paid pursuant to the Severance Plan when payment of such benefits is probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with ASC 712, Compensation Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits. Such benefits, include severance pay calculated based on the Severance Plan, medical and dental benefits, and outplacement services expenses.

Contract termination costs are expensed at the earlier of (1) the contract termination date or (2) the cease use date under the contract. Other exit costs are expensed as incurred and classified as restructuring expenses if (1) the cost is incremental to and incurred as a direct result of planned restructuring activities and (2) the cost is not associated with or incurred to generate revenues subsequent to our consummation of the related restructuring activities.

Other reorganization expenses include certain internal costs and third-party costs incurred in connection with our cost reduction initiatives.

During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company incurred $29 million of restructuring and other reorganization expense in connection with an effort that will reduce costs and improve operating efficiency. The charge related primarily to severance-related costs.

During the second quarter of 2015, the Company launched an initiative to simplify and streamline its management structure following the Spin-Off of SLM BankCo to improve the operating efficiency and effectiveness of the organization. As part of the Company s streamlining efforts, restructuring and other reorganization expenses of $29 million were recognized in 2015, primarily related to severance costs.

Income Taxes

We account for income taxes under the asset and liability approach which requires the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of our assets and liabilities. To the extent tax laws change, deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted in the period that the tax change is enacted. See Note 14 Income Taxes for a description of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( TCJA ) on the net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2017.

 Income tax expense/(benefit) includes (i) deferred tax expense/(benefit), which represents the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability balance during the year plus any change in a valuation allowance and (ii) current tax expense/(benefit), which represents the amount of tax currently payable to or receivable from a tax authority plus amounts accrued for unrecognized tax benefits. Income tax expense/(benefit) excludes the tax effects related to adjustments recorded in equity.

If we have an uncertain tax position, then that tax position is recognized only if it is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position. The amount of tax benefit recognized in the financial statements is the largest amount of benefit that is more than 50 percent likely of being sustained upon ultimate settlement of the uncertain tax position. We recognize interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense/(benefit) and penalties, if any, in operating expenses.

Earnings (Loss) per Common Share

We compute earnings (loss) per common share ( EPS ) by dividing net income allocated to common shareholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding. Net income allocated to common shareholders represents net income applicable to common shareholders. Diluted earnings per common share is computed by dividing income allocated to common shareholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding plus amounts representing the dilutive effect of stock options outstanding, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and the outstanding commitment to issue shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. See Note 10 Earnings (Loss) per Common Share for further discussion.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to the balances as of and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, to be consistent with classifications adopted for 2017, which had no effect on net income, total assets or total liabilities.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Revenue Recognition

On May 28, 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The new guidance supersedes current U.S. GAAP guidance on revenue recognition and requires the use of more estimates and judgements than the current revenue standards. The new guidance does not apply to revenue associated with financial instruments that are accounted for under other U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, the new revenue recognition guidance does not have an impact on our consolidated results of operations associated with our loan portfolios, investments and derivatives.

We adopted the new standard as of January 1, 2018, the effective date, utilizing the cumulative effect transition method. In conjunction with our implementation plan, we identified revenue streams within our Business Services segment that are within scope of the new standard and reviewed related contracts. We concluded that the new standard does not result in a material change in the timing of revenue or expense recognition, or the presentation/classification of such revenue and expense. Under the new standard, we will expand our revenue disclosures in the first quarter of 2018.

Classification and Measurement

On January 5, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which reconsiders the classification and measurement of financial instruments. The new standard requires certain equity instruments be measured at fair value, with fair value changes recognized in earnings. In addition, the standard requires a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the reporting period of adoption. It will be effective for the Company as of January 1, 2018. We have concluded that adopting this new accounting standard will be immaterial to our consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures.

Leases

On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, which requires the identification of arrangements that should be accounted for as leases by lessees. In general, lease arrangements exceeding a twelve-month term must be recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet of the lessee. A right-of-use asset and lease obligation will be recorded for all leases with a term exceeding twelve months, whether operating or financing, while the income statement will reflect lease expense for operating leases and amortization/interest expense for financing leases. The balance sheet amount recorded for existing leases at the date of adoption must be calculated using the applicable incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption. The standard requires the use of the modified retrospective transition method, which will require adjustment to all comparative periods presented. It will be effective for the Company as of January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. We continue to assess the impact that adopting this new accounting standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures, but expect it to be immaterial.

Stock Compensation

On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation, which identifies areas for simplification involving several aspects of accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, an option to recognize gross stock compensation expense with actual forfeitures recognized as they occur, as well as certain classifications on the statement of cash flows. The new standard also requires that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies that pertain to employee stock-based incentive payments be recognized within income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income, rather than as previously reported within additional paid-in capital. The new standard was adopted on January 1, 2017. In the year ended December 31, 2017, this new standard resulted in a $5 million reduction to income tax expense.

Allowance for Loan Losses

On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses, which requires measurement and recognition of an allowance for loan loss that estimates remaining expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date. Our current allowance for loan loss is an incurred loss model. As a result, we expect the new guidance will result in an increase to our allowance for loan losses. The standard is to be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. The standard is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2020, and will primarily impact the allowance for loan losses related to our Private Education Loans and FFELP Loans. Early adoption is permitted on January 1, 2019. This standard represents a significant departure from existing GAAP, and may result in material changes to the Company s accounting for the allowance for loan losses. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this accounting standard on our consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures.

Intra-Entity Transfer of Assets

On October 24, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes Intra-Entity Transfer of Assets Other and Inventory, which requires recognition of the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of non-inventory assets when the transfer occurs. The new standard is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2018. We have concluded that adopting this new accounting standard will be immaterial to our consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures.

Hedging Activities

On August 28, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging, which better aligns risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. The amendments expand and refine hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and in some situations better align the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. The new standard will be effective for the Company as of January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements and footnote disclosures.

The estimated weighted average life of education loans in our portfolio was approximately 7 years at both December 31, 2017 and 2016. The following table reflects the distribution of our education loan portfolio by program.

 December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2017
------------------------------------------------ ----------------- ------- ---------------------------- --- --------------- - ------------------------------- ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Ending Balance % of Balance Average Balance Average Effective Interest Rate
FFELP Stafford and Other Education Loans, net(1) $ 28,409 27 % $ 30,462 2.94 %
FFELP Consolidation Loans, net 53,294 51 54,527 3.30
Private Education Loans, net 23,419 22 23,762 6.88
Total education loans, net $ 105,122 100 % $ 108,751 3.98 %

 December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2016
------------------------------------------------ ----------------- ------- ---------------------------- --- --------------- - ------------------------------- ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Ending Balance % of Balance Average Balance Average Effective Interest Rate
FFELP Stafford and Other Education Loans, net(1) $ 32,319 29 % $ 34,710 2.31 %
FFELP Consolidation Loans, net 55,411 50 57,787 2.98
Private Education Loans, net 23,340 21 25,361 6.26
Total education loans, net $ 111,070 100 % $ 117,858 3.49 %

(1) Primarily Stafford Loans, but also includes federally guaranteed PLUS and HEAL Loans.

The following table highlights the principal balance (excluding the receivable for partially charged-off loans) of our Private Education Loan portfolio stratified by the key credit quality indicators.

 Private Education Loans Credit Quality Indicators
----------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ------ ----------------- --- ---------- - ------------ --- -
 TDR
 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
(Dollars in millions) Balance(2) % of Balance Balance(2) % of Balance
Credit Quality Indicators
Original Winning FICO Scores:
FICO 640 and above $ 9,647 92 % $ 9,863 91 %
FICO below 640 889 8 942 9
Total $ 10,536 100 % $ 10,805 100 %
School Type:
Not-for-profit $ 8,247 78 % $ 8,346 77 %
For-profit 2,289 22 2,459 23
Total $ 10,536 100 % $ 10,805 100 %
Cosigners:
With cosigner $ 6,441 61 % $ 6,486 60 %
Without cosigner 4,095 39 4,319 40
Total $ 10,536 100 % $ 10,805 100 %
Seasoning(1):
1-12 payments $ 506 5 % $ 754 7 %
13-24 payments 644 6 927 9
25-36 payments 947 9 1,289 12
37-48 payments 1,271 12 1,620 15
More than 48 payments 6,691 63 5,636 52
Not yet in repayment 477 5 579 5
Total $ 10,536 100 % $ 10,805 100 %

 (1) Number of months in active repayment for which a scheduled payment was received.

 (2) Balance equals the gross Private Education Loans.

 Private Education Loans Credit Quality Indicators
----------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ------ ----------------- --- ---------- - ------------ --- -
 Non-TDR
 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
(Dollars in millions) Balance(2) % of Balance Balance(2) % of Balance
Credit Quality Indicators
Original Winning FICO Scores:
FICO 640 and above $ 13,752 96 % $ 13,120 97 %
FICO below 640 592 4 408 3
Total $ 14,344 100 % $ 13,528 100 %
School Type:
Not-for-profit $ 12,431 87 % $ 11,338 84 %
For-profit 1,913 13 2,190 16
Total $ 14,344 100 % $ 13,528 100 %
Cosigners:
With cosigner $ 9,193 64 % $ 9,124 67 %
Without cosigner 5,151 36 4,404 33
Total $ 14,344 100 % $ 13,528 100 %
Seasoning(1):
1-12 payments $ 1,424 10 % $ 586 4 %
13-24 payments 437 3 344 3
25-36 payments 466 3 619 5
37-48 payments 867 6 1,103 8
More than 48 payments 10,566 74 10,062 74
Not yet in repayment 584 4 814 6
Total $ 14,344 100 % $ 13,528 100 %

 (1) Number of months in active repayment for which a scheduled payment was received.

 (2) Balance equals the gross Private Education Loans.

Allowance for Loan Losses Metrics

 Year Ended December 31, 2017
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------ - ----------------------- - ------ ----------- - ----- - - ------- -
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Private Education Loans Other Loans Total
Allowance for Loan Losses
Beginning balance $ 67 $ 1,351 $ 15 $ 1,433
Total provision 42 382 2 426
Charge-offs(1) (49 ) (443 ) (7 ) (499 )
Reclassification of interest reserve(2) — 7 — 7
Ending balance $ 60 $ 1,297 $ 10 $ 1,367
Allowance Ending Balance:
Individually evaluated for impairment - TDR $ — $ 1,171 $ 9 $ 1,180
Collectively evaluated for impairment:
Excluding Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans acquired at a discount and Purchased Credit Impaired Loans 60 126 1 187
Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans acquired at a discount(3) — — — —
Purchased Credit Impaired Loans(3) — — — —
Ending total allowance $ 60 $ 1,297 $ 10 $ 1,367
Loans Ending Balance:
Individually evaluated for impairment - TDR $ — $ 10,921 $ 30 $ 10,951
Collectively evaluated for impairment:
Excluding Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans acquired at a discount and Purchased Credit Impaired Loans 77,860 11,861 40 89,761
Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans acquired at a discount(3) 3,237 2,610 — 5,847
Purchased Credit Impaired Loans(3) — 248 — 248
Ending total loans(4) $ 81,097 $ 25,640 $ 70 $ 106,807
Charge-offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .07 % 1.98 % 5.39 %
Allowance coverage of charge-offs 1.2 2.9 1.5
Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance(3) .07 % 5.06 % 14.32 %
Allowance as a percentage of the ending loans in repayment(3) .09 % 5.66 % 14.32 %
Ending total loans(4) $ 81,097 $ 25,640 $ 70
Average loans in repayment $ 68,318 $ 22,342 $ 130
Ending loans in repayment $ 67,853 $ 22,924 $ 70

 (1) Charge-offs are reported net of expected recoveries. For Private Education Loans, the expected recovery amount is transferred to the receivable for partially charged-off loan balance. Charge-offs include charge-offs against the receivable for partially charged-off loans which represents the difference between what was expected to be recovered and any shortfalls in what was actually recovered in the period. See “Receivable for Partially Charged-Off Private Education Loans” for further discussion.

 (2) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loan’s principal balance.

 (3) See “Note 2 — Significant Accounting Policies — Allowance for Loan Losses” for a description of our policy for the $6.5 billion of loans ($3.5 billion of FFELP and $3.0 billion of Private Education) purchased in 2017 accounted for as either Purchased Credit Impaired Loans or Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans. The Purchased Credit Impaired Loans’ losses are not provided for by the allowance for loan losses in the above table as these loans are separately reserved for, if needed. No allowance for loan losses has been established for these loans as of December 31, 2017. The losses of the Purchased Non-Credit Impaired Loans acquired at a discount are not provided for by the allowance for loan losses in the above table as the remaining purchased discount associated with the FFELP and Private Education Loans of $43 million and $392 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017 is greater than the incurred losses and as a result no allowance for loan losses has been established for these loans as of December 31, 2017. As a result, excluding the $6.5 billion of loans acquired in 2017, the allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance and the allowance as a percentage of the ending loans in repayment would be 0.08 percent and 0.09 percent for FFELP Loans and 5.69 percent and 6.42 percent for Private Education Loans, respectively.

 (4) Ending total loans for Private Education Loans includes the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

 Year Ended December 31, 2016
---------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ------ - ----------------------- - ------ ----------- - ----- - - ------- -
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Private Education Loans Other Loans Total
Allowance for Loan Losses
Beginning balance $ 78 $ 1,471 $ 15 $ 1,564
Total provision 43 383 3 429
Charge-offs(1) (54 ) (513 ) (3 ) (570 )
Reclassification of interest reserve(2) — 10 — 10
Ending balance $ 67 $ 1,351 $ 15 $ 1,433
Allowance Ending Balance:
Individually evaluated for impairment - TDR $ — $ 1,190 $ 11 $ 1,201
Collectively evaluated for impairment 67 161 4 232
Ending total allowance $ 67 $ 1,351 $ 15 $ 1,433
Loans Ending Balance:
Individually evaluated for impairment - TDR $ — $ 11,165 $ 32 $ 11,197
Collectively evaluated for impairment 86,918 13,983 132 101,033
Ending total loans(3) $ 86,918 $ 25,148 $ 164 $ 112,230
Charge-offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment .07 % 2.20 % 2.10 %
Allowance coverage of charge-offs 1.2 2.6 7.0
Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance .08 % 5.37 % 9.35 %
Allowance as a percentage of the ending loans in repayment .09 % 6.10 % 9.35 %
Ending total loans(3) $ 86,918 $ 25,148 $ 164
Average loans in repayment $ 72,714 $ 23,275 $ 104
Ending loans in repayment $ 70,557 $ 22,150 $ 164

 (1) Charge-offs are reported net of expected recoveries. For Private Education Loans, the expected recovery amount is transferred to the receivable for partially charged-off loan balance. Charge-offs include charge-offs against the receivable for partially charged-off loans which represents the difference between what was expected to be recovered and any shortfalls in what was actually recovered in the period. See “Receivable for Partially Charged-Off Private Education Loans” for further discussion.

 (2) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loan’s principal balance.

 (3) Ending total loans for Private Education Loans includes the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

 Year Ended December 31, 2015
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ------ - ----------------------- - ------ ----------- - ----- - - ------- -
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Private Education Loans Other Loans Total
Allowance for Loan Losses
Beginning balance $ 93 $ 1,916 $ 24 $ 2,033
Total provision 46 538 (3 ) 581
Net adjustment resulting from the change in the charge-off rate(1) — (330 ) — (330 )
Net charge-offs remaining(2) (61 ) (659 ) (6 ) (726 )
Total net charge-offs (61 ) (989 ) (6 ) (1,056 )
Reclassification of interest reserve(3) — 11 — 11
Loan sales — (5 ) — (5 )
Ending balance $ 78 $ 1,471 $ 15 $ 1,564
Allowance Ending Balance:
Individually evaluated for impairment - TDR $ — $ 1,209 $ 12 $ 1,221
Collectively evaluated for impairment 78 262 3 343
Ending total allowance $ 78 $ 1,471 $ 15 $ 1,564
Loans Ending Balance:
Individually evaluated for impairment - TDR $ — $ 10,965 $ 37 $ 11,002
Collectively evaluated for impairment 95,393 17,431 49 112,873
Ending total loans(4) $ 95,393 $ 28,396 $ 86 $ 123,875
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans in repayment, excluding the net adjustment resulting from the change in the charge-off rate (annualized)(1) .08 % 2.55 % 6.17 %
Net adjustment resulting from the change in the charge-off rate as a percentage of average loans in repayment (annualized)(1) — % 1.28 % — %
Allowance coverage of net charge-offs, excluding the net adjustment resulting from the change in the charge-off rate (annualized)(1) 1.3 2.2 2.5
Allowance as a percentage of the ending total loan balance .08 % 5.18 % 17.28 %
Allowance as a percentage of the ending loans in repayment .11 % 6.00 % 17.28 %
Ending total loans(4) $ 95,393 $ 28,396 $ 86
Average loans in repayment $ 75,925 $ 25,802 $ 97
Ending loans in repayment $ 73,838 $ 24,502 $ 86

 (1) In 2015, the portion of the loan amount charged off at default on Private Education Loans increased from 73 percent to 79 percent. This did not impact the provision for loan losses as previously this had been reserved through the allowance for loan losses. This change resulted in a $330 million reduction to the balance of the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

 (2) Charge-offs are reported net of expected recoveries. For Private Education Loans, the expected recovery amount is transferred to the receivable for partially charged-off loan balance. Charge-offs include charge-offs against the receivable for partially charged-off loans which represents the difference between what was expected to be recovered and any shortfalls in what was actually recovered in the period. See “Receivable for Partially Charged-Off Private Education Loans” for further discussion.

 (3) Represents the additional allowance related to the amount of uncollectible interest reserved within interest income that is transferred in the period to the allowance for loan losses when interest is capitalized to a loan’s principal balance.

 (4) Ending total loans for Private Education Loans includes the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

 FFELP Loan Delinquencies
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ------ - ---- ---- ------- - ------ - ------- ---- - - - ------ - ---- -
 December 31,
 2017 2016 2015
(Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance %
Loans in-school/grace/deferment(1) $ 4,711 $ 5,871 $ 8,257
Loans in forbearance(2) 8,533 10,490 13,298
Loans in repayment and percentage of each status:
Loans current 59,264 87.3 % 61,977 87.8 % 62,651 84.8 %
Loans delinquent 31-60 days(3) 2,638 3.9 2,820 4.0 3,285 4.5
Loans delinquent 61-90 days(3) 1,763 2.6 1,325 1.9 1,856 2.5
Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 4,188 6.2 4,435 6.3 6,046 8.2
Total FFELP Loans in repayment 67,853 100 % 70,557 100 % 73,838 100 %
Total FFELP Loans, gross 81,097 86,918 95,393
FFELP Loan unamortized premium 666 879 1,087
Total FFELP Loans 81,763 87,797 96,480
FFELP Loan allowance for losses (60 ) (67 ) (78 )
FFELP Loans, net $ 81,703 $ 87,730 $ 96,402
Percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 83.7 % 81.2 % 77.4 %
Delinquencies as a percentage of FFELP Loans in repayment 12.7 % 12.2 % 15.2 %
FFELP Loans in forbearance as a percentage of loans in repayment and forbearance 11.2 % 12.9 % 15.3 %

(1) Loans for customers who may still be attending school or engaging in other permitted educational activities and are not required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation, as well as loans for customers who have requested and qualify for other permitted program deferments such as military, unemployment or economic hardships.

(2) Loans for customers who have used their allowable deferment time or do not qualify for deferment, that need additional time to obtain employment or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors such as disaster relief.

(3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due.

 TDR Private Education Loan Delinquencies
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- ------ - ---- ---- ------- - ------ - ------- ---- - - - ------ - ---- -
 December 31,
 2017 2016 2015
(Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance %
Loans in-school/grace/deferment(1) $ 477 $ 579 $ 706
Loans in forbearance(2) 681 588 694
Loans in repayment and percentage of each status:
Loans current 8,333 88.9 % 8,273 85.8 % 7,887 85.3 %
Loans delinquent 31-60 days(3) 351 3.7 412 4.3 414 4.5
Loans delinquent 61-90 days(3) 207 2.2 267 2.8 263 2.9
Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 487 5.2 686 7.1 678 7.3
Total TDR loans in repayment 9,378 100 % 9,638 100 % 9,242 100 %
Total TDR loans, gross 10,536 10,805 10,642
TDR loans unamortized discount (225 ) (237 ) (243 )
Total TDR loans 10,311 10,568 10,399
TDR loans receivable for partially charged-off loans 385 360 323
TDR loans allowance for losses (1,171 ) (1,190 ) (1,209 )
TDR loans, net $ 9,525 $ 9,738 $ 9,513
Percentage of TDR loans in repayment 89.0 % 89.2 % 86.8 %
Delinquencies as a percentage of TDR loans in repayment 11.1 % 14.2 % 14.7 %
Loans in forbearance as a percentage of TDR loans in repayment and forbearance 6.8 % 5.7 % 7.0 %

(1) Deferment includes customers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation.

(2) Loans for customers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors such as disaster relief, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures.

(3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due.

 Non-TDR Private Education Loan Delinquencies
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- ------ - ---- ---- ------- - ------ - ------- ---- - - - ------ - ---- -
 December 31,
 2017 2016 2015
(Dollars in millions) Balance % Balance % Balance %
Loans in-school/grace/deferment(1) $ 584 $ 814 $ 1,334
Loans in forbearance(2) 214 202 279
Loans in repayment and percentage of each status:
Loans current 13,257 97.9 % 12,233 97.8 % 14,844 97.3 %
Loans delinquent 31-60 days(3) 120 .9 110 .9 163 1.1
Loans delinquent 61-90 days(3) 59 .4 54 .4 85 .6
Loans delinquent greater than 90 days(3) 110 .8 115 .9 168 1.0
Total non-TDR loans in repayment 13,546 100 % 12,512 100 % 15,260 100 %
Total non-TDR loans, gross 14,344 13,528 16,873
Non-TDR loans unamortized discount (699 ) (220 ) (288 )
Total non-TDR loans 13,645 13,308 16,585
Non-TDR loans receivable for partially charged-off loans 375 455 558
Non-TDR loans allowance for losses (126 ) (161 ) (262 )
Non-TDR loans, net $ 13,894 $ 13,602 $ 16,881
Percentage of non-TDR loans in repayment 94.4 % 92.5 % 90.4 %
Delinquencies as a percentage of non-TDR loans in repayment 2.1 % 2.2 % 2.7 %
Loans in forbearance as a percentage of non- TDR loans in repayment and forbearance 1.6 % 1.6 % 1.8 %

(1) Deferment includes customers who have returned to school or are engaged in other permitted educational activities and are not required to make payments on the loans, e.g., residency periods for medical students or a grace period for bar exam preparation.

(2) Loans for customers who have requested extension of grace period generally during employment transition or who have temporarily ceased making full payments due to hardship or other factors such as disaster relief, consistent with established loan program servicing policies and procedures.

(3) The period of delinquency is based on the number of days scheduled payments are contractually past due.

The following table summarizes the activity in the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

 Years Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ ---- - ---- - ---- ---- - ----- -
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Receivable at beginning of period $ 815 $ 881 $ 1,245
Expected future recoveries of current period defaults(1) 110 128 183
Recoveries(2) (155 ) (181 ) (191 )
Net adjustment resulting from the change in the charge-off rate(3) — — (330 )
Net charge-offs remaining(4) (10 ) (13 ) (26 )
Total net charge-offs(5) (10 ) (13 ) (356 )
Receivable at end of period $ 760 $ 815 $ 881

 (1) Represents our estimate of the amount to be collected in the future.

 (2) Current period cash collections.

 (3) In 2015, the portion of the loan amount charged off at default increased from 73 percent to 79 percent. This change resulted in a $330 million reduction to the balance of the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

 (4) Represents the current period recovery shortfall — the difference between what was expected to be collected and what was actually collected.

 (5) These amounts are included in total charge-offs as reported in the “Allowance for Private Education Loan Losses” table.

The following table provides the recorded investment, unpaid principal balance and related allowance for our TDR loans.

 TDR Loans
--------------------- ---------------------- ------ --------------------- - ------ ----------------- - -----
(Dollars in millions) Recorded Investment(1) Total Ending Loans(2) Related Allowance
December 31, 2017 $ 10,890 $ 10,921 $ 1,171
December 31, 2016 11,119 11,165 1,190

 (1) Recorded investment is equal to the unpaid principal balance (which includes the receivable for partially charged-off loans), accrued interest and unamortized discount.

 (2) Total ending loans includes the receivable for partially charged-off loans.

The following table provides the average recorded investment and interest income recognized for our TDR loans.

 Years Ended December 31,
--------------------- --------------------------- ------ -------------------------- - --- --------------------------- - -------------------------- --------------------------- --- -------------------------- - ------ - ---
 2017 2016 2015
(Dollars in millions) Average Recorded Investment Interest Income Recognized Average Recorded Investment Interest Income Recognized Average Recorded Investment Interest Income Recognized
Total $ 10,989 $ 708 $ 11,078 $ 667 $ 10,770 $ 653

The following table provides the amount of loans modified in the periods presented that resulted in a TDR. Additionally, the table summarizes charge-offs occurring in the TDR portfolio, as well as TDRs for which a payment default occurred in the current period within 12 months of the loan first being designated as a TDR. We define payment default as 60 days past due for this disclosure.

 Years Ended December 31,
--------------------- ------------------------ --- --------------- - --- ---------------- - ----------------- --------------- ----- ---------------- - --- ----------------- - --------------- ---------------- ----- - --- - ---
 2017 2016 2015
(Dollars in millions) Modified Loans(1) Charge- Offs(2) Payment- Default Modified Loans(1) Charge- Offs(2) Payment- Default Modified Loans(1) Charge- Offs(2) Payment- Default
Total $ 816 $ 346 $ 181 $ 1,169 $ 382 $ 265 $ 1,604 $ 459 $ 403

(1) Represents period ending balance of loans that have been modified during the period and resulted in a TDR.

(2) Represents loans that charged off that were classified as TDRs.

The following table provides information regarding accrued interest receivable on our Private Education Loans.

 Accrued Interest Receivable As of December 31,
--------------------- ---------------------------------------------- --- ----------------------------- - -- ------------------------------------ - --
(Dollars in millions) Total Greater Than 90 Days Past Due Allowance for Uncollectible Interest
 2017
TDR $ 196 $ 20 $ 20
Non-TDR 187 4 6
Total $ 383 $ 24 $ 26
 2016
TDR $ 192 $ 28 $ 23
Non-TDR 199 5 7
Total $ 391 $ 33 $ 30
 2015
TDR $ 201 $ 28 $ 26
Non-TDR 289 7 9
Total $ 490 $ 35 $ 35

The following table summarizes our goodwill, accumulated impairments and net goodwill for our reporting units and reportable segments.

 As of December 31, 2017 As of December 31, 2016
--------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------------------------------------ - ---- --- - ----- ------------------------------------------------ --- --- - ---- - - ---
(Dollars in millions) Gross Accumulated Impairments and Other Adjustments(1) Net Gross Accumulated Impairments and Other Adjustments(1) Net
FFELP Loans reportable segment $ 194 $ (4 ) $ 190 $ 194 $ (4 ) $ 190
Private Education Loans reportable segment:
Private Education Loans 147 (41 ) 106 147 (41 ) 106
Earnest 87 — 87 — — —
Total Private Education Loans reportable segment(1) 234 (41 ) 193 147 (41 ) 106
Business Services reportable segment:
Servicing 50 — 50 50 — 50
Asset Recovery — Contingency 136 (136 ) — 136 (136 ) —
Asset Recovery — Gila 160 — 160 97 — 97
Asset Recovery — Xtend Healthcare 108 — 108 102 — 102
Total Business Services reportable segment 454 (136 ) 318 385 (136 ) 249
Total $ 882 $ (181 ) $ 701 $ 726 $ (181 ) $ 545

(1) In conjunction with our Separation from SLM BankCo in 2014, we removed $41 million of goodwill from our balance sheet as required under ASC 350, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other.” This goodwill was allocated to the consumer banking business retained by SLM BankCo based on relative fair value.

Acquired intangible assets include the following:

 As of December 31, 2017 As of December 31, 2016
-------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------------------------------------ - ---- --- - ------------- ------------------------------------------ --- --- - ---- - - ---
(Dollars in millions) Cost Basis(1) Accumulated Impairment and Amortization(1) Net Cost Basis(1) Accumulated Impairment and Amortization(1) Net
Customer, services and lending relationships $ 292 $ (234 ) $ 58 $ 292 $ (219 ) $ 73
Favorable lease 1 — 1 1 — 1
Non-competes 2 (2 ) — 2 (2 ) —
Software and technology 104 (85 ) 19 101 (82 ) 19
Trade names and trademarks(2) 48 (18 ) 30 44 (13 ) 31
Total acquired intangible assets $ 447 $ (339 ) $ 108 $ 440 $ (316 ) $ 124

(1) Accumulated impairment and amortization includes impairment amounts only if the acquired intangible asset has been deemed partially impaired. When an acquired intangible asset is considered fully impaired and no longer in use, the cost basis and any accumulated amortization related to the asset is written off.

(2) During 2016 we reclassified certain trade names from indefinite life to definite life intangible assets and began to amortize these assets over their expected benefit period.

The following table summarizes our borrowings.

 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
----------------------------------------- ----------------- ----- ----------------- - ------- ----- - ---------- --------- ----- - ----- - ------- - - ------- -
(Dollars in millions) Short Term Long Term Total Short Term Long Term Total
Unsecured borrowings:
Senior unsecured debt(1) $ 1,306 $ 12,624 $ 13,930 $ 717 $ 13,029 $ 13,746
Total unsecured borrowings 1,306 12,624 13,930 717 13,029 13,746
Secured borrowings:
FFELP Loan securitizations — 71,208 71,208 — 73,522 73,522
Private Education Loan securitizations(2) 686 12,646 13,332 548 14,125 14,673
FFELP Loan — other facilities 1,536 6,830 8,366 — 12,443 12,443
Private Education Loan — other facilities 684 1,710 2,394 464 — 464
Other(3) 538 — 538 606 — 606
Total secured borrowings 3,444 92,394 95,838 1,618 100,090 101,708
Total before hedge accounting adjustments 4,750 105,018 109,768 2,335 113,119 115,454
Hedge accounting adjustments 21 (6 ) 15 (1 ) (751 ) (752 )
Total $ 4,771 $ 105,012 $ 109,783 $ 2,334 $ 112,368 $ 114,702

(1) Includes principal amount of $1.3 billion and $719 million of short-term debt as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Includes principal amount of $12.7 billion and $13.1 billion of long-term debt as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(2) Includes $686 million and $548 of short-term debt related to the Private Education Loan asset-backed securitization repurchase facilities (“Repurchase Facilities”) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Includes $1.3 billion and $475 million of long-term debt related to the Repurchase Facilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(3) “Other” primarily includes the obligation to return cash collateral held related to derivative exposures, which includes $0 million and $193 million of securities re-pledged subject to an overnight repurchase transaction as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

The following tables summarize outstanding short-term borrowings (secured and unsecured), the weighted average interest rates at the end of each period, and the related average balances and weighted average interest rates during the periods.

 December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2017
----------------------------------------- ----------------- ----- ------------------------------ ---- --------------- - ------------------------------ ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Ending Balance Weighted Average Interest Rate Average Balance Weighted Average Interest Rate
Private Education Loan securitizations(1) $ 686 4.65 % $ 706 4.32 %
FFELP Loan — other facilities 1,536 2.11 261 1.26
Private Education Loan — other facilities 684 2.92 572 2.42
Senior unsecured debt 1,327 8.06 1,197 6.80
Other interest-bearing liabilities 538 1.33 458 1.27
Total short-term borrowings $ 4,771 4.16 % $ 3,194 4.22 %
Maximum outstanding at any month end $ 4,771

 December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2016
----------------------------------------- ----------------- ----- ------------------------------ ---- --------------- - ------------------------------ ---- -
(Dollars in millions) Ending Balance Weighted Average Interest Rate Average Balance Weighted Average Interest Rate
Private Education Loan securitizations(1) $ 548 3.72 % $ 42 3.81 %
FFELP Loan — other facilities — — — —
Private Education Loan —other facilities 464 2.02 389 1.83
Senior unsecured debt 716 4.22 1,032 5.01
Other interest-bearing liabilities 606 .96 629 .48
Total short-term borrowings $ 2,334 2.82 % $ 2,092 3.03 %
Maximum outstanding at any month end $ 2,637

 (1) Relates to Repurchase Facilities.

The following tables summarize outstanding long-term borrowings, the weighted average interest rates at the end of the periods, and the related average balances during the periods.

 December 31, 2017
------------------------------- ----------------- ------- ---------------- ---------------- ---- --------------- ---------------------------- - -------
 Weighted Average Year Ended December 31, 2017
(Dollars in millions) Ending Balance(1) Interest Rate(2) Average Balance
Floating rate notes:
U.S. dollar-denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2018-2083 $ 83,209 2.31 % $ 86,186
Non-U.S. dollar-denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2023-2041 6,423 .37 7,355
Total floating rate notes 89,632 2.17 93,541
Fixed rate notes:
U.S. dollar-denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2019-2058 15,114 5.60 15,266
Non-U.S.-dollar denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2034-2035 266 2.72 281
Total fixed rate notes 15,380 5.55 15,547
Total long-term borrowings $ 105,012 2.67 % $ 109,088

 December 31, 2016
------------------------------- ----------------- ------- ---------------- ---------------- ---- --------------- ---------------------------- - -------
 Weighted Average Year Ended December 31, 2016
(Dollars in millions) Ending Balance(1) Interest Rate(2) Average Balance
Floating rate notes:
U.S. dollar-denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2017-2083 $ 88,575 1.65 % $ 93,881
Non-U.S. dollar-denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2023-2041 7,265 .28 8,761
Total floating rate notes 95,840 1.54 102,642
Fixed rate notes:
U.S. dollar-denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2018-2058 16,271 5.65 16,050
Non-U.S.-dollar denominated:
Interest bearing, due 2034-2035 257 2.82 281
Total fixed rate notes 16,528 5.60 16,331
Total long-term borrowings $ 112,368 2.14 % $ 118,973

 (1) Ending balance is expressed in U.S. dollars using the spot currency exchange rate. Includes fair value adjustments under hedge accounting for notes designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge.

 (2) Weighted average interest rate is stated rate relative to currency denomination of debt.

As of December 31, 2017, the expected maturities of our long-term borrowings are shown in the following table.

 Expected Maturity
---------------------------- --------------------- ------ --------------------- - ------ -------- - ------- -
(Dollars in millions) Senior Unsecured Debt Secured Borrowings(1) Total(2)
Year of Maturity
 2018 $ — $ 11,810 $ 11,810
 2019 2,369 10,276 12,645
 2020 2,041 9,076 11,117
 2021 1,428 7,477 8,905
 2022 1,731 6,326 8,057
 2023-2039 5,055 47,429 52,484
 12,624 92,394 105,018
Hedge accounting adjustments 240 (246 ) (6 )
Total $ 12,864 $ 92,148 $ 105,012

 (1) We view our securitization trust debt as long-term based on the contractual maturity dates which range from 2018 to 2083. However, we have projected the expected principal paydowns based on our current estimates regarding the securitized loans’ prepayment speeds for purposes of this disclosure to better reflect how we expect this debt to be paid down over time. The projected principal paydowns in year 2018 include $11.8 billion related to the securitization trust debt.

 (2) The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each period is $11.9 billion in 2018, $12.7 billion in 2019, $11.2 billion in 2020, $9.0 billion in 2021, $8.1 billion in 2022 and $53.0 billion in 2023-2039.

We consolidate the following financing VIEs as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, as we are the primary beneficiary. As a result, these VIEs are accounted for as secured borrowings.

 December 31, 2017
----------------------------------------- ----------------- ----- --------------------------------------------------- - ------ ----- - ------ - ---- ------ ----------------- - ----- ----- - ----- - - ------- -
 Debt Outstanding Carrying Amount of Assets Securing Debt Outstanding
(Dollars in millions) Short Term Long Term Total Loans Cash Other Assets, Net Total
Secured Borrowings — VIEs:
FFELP Loan securitizations $ — $ 71,208 $ 71,208 $ 72,145 $ 2,335 $ 1,078 $ 75,558
Private Education Loan securitizations(1) 686 12,646 13,332 17,739 484 237 18,460
FFELP Loan — other facilities 1,536 3,999 5,535 5,565 204 156 5,925
Private Education Loan — other facilities 684 1,710 2,394 3,147 68 31 3,246
Total before hedge accounting adjustments 2,906 89,563 92,469 98,596 3,091 1,502 103,189
Hedge accounting adjustments — (246 ) (246 ) — — (342 ) (342 )
Total $ 2,906 $ 89,317 $ 92,223 $ 98,596 $ 3,091 $ 1,160 $ 102,847

 December 31, 2016
----------------------------------------- ----------------- ----- --------------------------------------------------- - ------ ----- - ------ - ---- ------- ----------------- - ----- ----- - ------ - - ------- -
 Debt Outstanding Carrying Amount of Assets Securing Debt Outstanding
(Dollars in millions) Short Term Long Term Total Loans Cash Other Assets, Net Total
Secured Borrowings — VIEs:
FFELP Loan securitizations $ — $ 73,522 $ 73,522 $ 74,197 $ 2,676 $ 778 $ 77,651
Private Education Loan securitizations(1) 548 14,125 14,673 19,815 455 260 20,530
FFELP Loan — other facilities — 9,046 9,046 9,232 289 172 9,693
Private Education Loan — other facilities 464 — 464 685 10 14 709
Other 66 — 66 79 4 — 83
Total before hedge accounting adjustments 1,078 96,693 97,771 104,008 3,434 1,224 108,666
Hedge accounting adjustments — (1,201 ) (1,201 ) — — (1,235 ) (1,235 )
Total $ 1,078 $ 95,492 $ 96,570 $ 104,008 $ 3,434 $ (11 ) $ 107,431

(1) Includes $686 million of short-term debt, $1.3 billion of long-term debt and $96 million of restricted cash related to the Repurchase Facilities as of December 31, 2017. Includes $548 million of short-term debt, $475 million of long-term debt and $49 million of restricted cash related to the Repurchase Facilities as of December 31, 2016.

The following table summarizes activity related to our senior unsecured debt and ABS repurchases. Gains (losses) on debt repurchases is shown net of hedging-related gains and losses.

 Years Ended December 31,
---------------------------------- ------------------------ --- - ---- - ----- ---- - -----
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Debt principal repurchased $ 513 $ 1,467 $ 1,744
Gains (losses) on debt repurchases (3 ) 1 21

The following tables summarize the fair values and notional amounts or number of contracts of all derivative instruments at December 31, 2017 and 2016, and their impact on other comprehensive income and earnings for 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Impact of Derivatives on Consolidated Balance Sheet

 Cash Flow Fair Value Trading Total
---------------------------------- ---------------------------------- ------------- --- - ------------- - --- ------------- - ------------- - ------------- ------ - ------------- - ---- ------------- - ------------- - - ---- - - ------ -
(Dollars in millions) Hedged Risk Exposure Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016
Fair Values(1)
Derivative Assets:
Interest rate swaps Interest rate $ 95 $ 78 $ 290 $ 465 $ 7 $ 22 $ 392 $ 565
Cross-currency interest rate swaps Foreign currency and interest rate — — 88 — — — 88 —
Total derivative assets(2) 95 78 378 465 7 22 480 565
Derivative Liabilities:
Interest rate swaps Interest rate (16 ) (76 ) (102 ) (62 ) (71 ) (70 ) (189 ) (208 )
Floor Income Contracts Interest rate — — — — (74 ) (184 ) (74 ) (184 )
Cross-currency interest rate swaps Foreign currency and interest rate — — (410 ) (1,243 ) (44 ) (53 ) (454 ) (1,296 )
Other(3) Interest rate — — — — (18 ) (13 ) (18 ) (13 )
Total derivative liabilities(2) (16 ) (76 ) (512 ) (1,305 ) (207 ) (320 ) (735 ) (1,701 )
Net total derivatives $ 79 $ 2 $ (134 ) $ (840 ) $ (200 ) $ (298 ) $ (255 ) $ (1,136 )

(1) Fair values reported are exclusive of collateral held and pledged and accrued interest. Assets and liabilities are presented without consideration of master netting agreements. Derivatives are carried on the balance sheet based on net position by counterparty under master netting agreements, and classified in other assets or other liabilities depending on whether in a net positive or negative position.

(2) The following table reconciles gross positions with the impact of master netting agreements to the balance sheet classification:

The following table reconciles gross positions with the impact of master netting agreements to the balance sheet classification:

 Other Assets Other Liabilities
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---- - ----------------- - ---- ----------------- - ----------------- - - ------ -
(Dollar in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
Gross position $ 480 $ 565 $ (735 ) $ (1,701 )
Impact of master netting agreements (42 ) (31 ) 42 31
Derivative values with impact of master netting agreements (as carried on balance sheet) 438 534 (693 ) (1,670 )
Cash collateral (held) pledged (536 ) (345 ) 235 319
Net position, as presented on the balance sheet $ (98 ) $ 189 $ (458 ) $ (1,351 )

(3) “Other” includes derivatives related to our Total Return Swap Facility.

 Cash Flow Fair Value Trading Total
---------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- - ---- ------------- - ------------- ------------- ---- ------------- - ---- ------------- - ------------- - ----- - ----
(Dollars in billions) Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016
Notional Values:
Interest rate swaps $ 24.1 $ 15.2 $ 12.4 $ 11.8 $ 72.0 $ 23.8 $ 108.5 $ 50.8
Floor Income Contracts — — — — 21.9 18.5 21.9 18.5
Cross-currency interest rate swaps — — 6.7 8.5 .3 .3 7.0 8.8
Other(1) — — — — .5 2.6 .5 2.6
Total derivatives $ 24.1 $ 15.2 $ 19.1 $ 20.3 $ 94.7 $ 45.2 $ 137.9 $ 80.7

(1) “Other” includes derivatives related to our Total Return Swap Facility.

Impact of Derivatives on Consolidated Statements of Income

 Years Ended December 31,
---------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---- - -------------------------------------- - ---- ---------------------------------------- - ----------------- - ---- ---- - ---- - ---- ---- - ---- - ---- ---- - ---- - --- ---- - ----- - ---- - - --- - - --- -
 Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Derivatives(1)(2) Realized Gain (Loss) on Derivatives(3) Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Hedged Item(1) Total Gain (Loss)
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015
Fair Value Hedges:
Interest rate swaps $ (214 ) $ (288 ) $ (115 ) $ 175 $ 259 $ 345 $ 193 $ 302 $ 140 $ 154 $ 273 $ 370
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 921 (319 ) (794 ) (118 ) (86 ) (7 ) (954 ) 350 921 (151 ) (55 ) 120
Total fair value derivatives 707 (607 ) (909 ) 57 173 338 (761 ) 652 1,061 3 218 490
Cash Flow Hedges:
Interest rate swaps — — — (49 ) (50 ) — — — — (49 ) (50 ) —
Total cash flow derivatives — — — (49 ) (50 ) — — — — (49 ) (50 ) —
Trading:
Interest rate swaps (16 ) (13 ) 61 24 42 42 — — — 8 29 103
Floor Income Contracts 150 297 557 (69 ) (246 ) (650 ) — — — 81 51 (93 )
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 8 9 2 (6 ) (4 ) (4 ) — — — 2 5 (2 )
Other (5 ) (10 ) 9 (10 ) (3 ) (3 ) — — — (15 ) (13 ) 6
Total trading derivatives 137 283 629 (61 ) (211 ) (615 ) — — — 76 72 14
Total 844 (324 ) (280 ) (53 ) (88 ) (277 ) (761 ) 652 1,061 30 240 504
Less: realized gains (losses) recorded in interest expense — — — 8 123 338 — — — 8 123 338
Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ 844 $ (324 ) $ (280 ) $ (61 ) $ (211 ) $ (615 ) $ (761 ) $ 652 $ 1,061 $ 22 $ 117 $ 166

(1) Recorded in “Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net” in the consolidated statements of income.

(2) Represents ineffectiveness related to cash flow hedges.

(3) For fair value and cash flow hedges, recorded in interest expense. For trading derivatives, recorded in “Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net.”

Impact of Derivatives on Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity (net of tax)

 Years Ended December 31,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ -- ---- - -- ---- - --- -
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Total gains (losses) on cash flow hedges $ 25 $ 26 $ (59 )
Realized (gains) losses recognized in interest expense(1)(2)(3) 30 31 (1 )
Total change in stockholders’ equity for unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives $ 55 $ 57 $ (60 )

 (1) Amounts included in “Realized gain (loss) on derivatives” in the “Impact of Derivatives on Consolidated Statements of Income” table above.

 (2) Includes net settlement income/expense.

 (3) We expect to reclassify $2 million of after-tax net losses from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the next 12 months related to amortization of terminated hedge relationships.

The following table details collateral held and pledged related to derivative exposure between us and our derivative counterparties.

(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- --- ----------------- - -----
Collateral held:
Cash (obligation to return cash collateral is recorded in short- term borrowings) $ 536 $ 345
Securities at fair value — corporate derivatives (not recorded in financial statements)(1) — 193
Securities at fair value — on-balance sheet securitization derivatives (not recorded in financial statements)(2) 297 230
Total collateral held $ 833 $ 768
Derivative asset at fair value including accrued interest $ 618 $ 689
Collateral pledged to others:
Cash (right to receive return of cash collateral is recorded in investments) $ 235 $ 319
Total collateral pledged $ 235 $ 319
Derivative liability at fair value including accrued interest and premium receivable $ 659 $ 1,670

 (1) The Company has the ability to sell or re-pledge securities it holds as collateral.

 (2) The trusts do not have the ability to sell or re-pledge securities they hold as collateral.

The following table provides the detail of our other assets.

(Dollars in millions) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
------------------------------------------ ----------------- ----- ----------------- - -----
Accrued interest receivable, net $ 1,965 $ 1,663
Benefit and insurance-related investments 481 488
Derivatives at fair value 438 534
Income tax asset, net current and deferred 380 725
Fixed assets, net 156 160
Accounts receivable 108 95
Other loans, net 59 148
Other 438 380
Total $ 4,025 $ 4,193

The following table summarizes our common share repurchases and issuances.

 Years Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ ---------- ---- - ---------- ---- - ----------
 2017 2016 2015
Common stock repurchased(1) 29,646,374 59,625,325 56,043,711
Average purchase price per share $ 14.85 $ 12.68 $ 16.87
Shares repurchased related to employee stock-based compensation plans(2) 1,847,651 3,197,355 2,404,328
Average purchase price per share $ 15.40 $ 13.21 $ 19.81
Common shares issued(3) 3,680,479 5,476,010 4,924,021

 (1) Common shares purchased under our share repurchase program.

 (2) Comprises shares withheld from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock for employees’ tax withholding obligations and shares tendered by employees to satisfy option exercise costs.

 (3) Common shares issued under our various compensation and benefit plans.

Basic earnings (loss) per common share ( EPS ) are calculated using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted EPS calculations follows.

 Years Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ ---- ---- - ---- ---- - ----
(In millions, except per share data) 2017 2016 2015
Numerator:
Net income attributable to Navient Corporation $ 292 $ 681 $ 984
Denominator:
Weighted average shares used to compute basic EPS 275 316 376
Effect of dilutive securities:
Dilutive effect of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance stock units and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)(1) 6 6 6
Dilutive potential common shares(2) 6 6 6
Weighted average shares used to compute diluted EPS 281 322 382
Basic earnings per common share attributable to Navient Corporation $ 1.06 $ 2.15 $ 2.62
Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Navient Corporation $ 1.04 $ 2.12 $ 2.58

 (1) Includes the potential dilutive effect of additional common shares that are issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance stock units and the outstanding commitment to issue shares under the ESPP, determined by the treasury stock method.

 (2) For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, stock options covering approximately 5 million, 4 million and 6 million shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive.

The fair values of the options granted in the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were estimated as of the grant date using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:

 Years Ended December 31,
---------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ---- - --------- - ---- --------- - ---- -
 2017 2016 2015
Expected life of the option 3.0 years 3.0 years 2.9 years
Expected volatility 34 % 30 % 22 %
Risk-free interest rate 1.44 % .90 % .95 %
Expected dividend rate 4.13 % 6.97 % 2.99 %
Weighted average fair value of options granted $ 2.69 $ 1.01 $ 2.22

The following table summarizes Navient s stock option activity in 2017.

(Dollars in millions, except per share data) Number of Options Weighted Average Exercise Price per Share Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value(1)
-------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- - ----------------------------------------- - ----- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- - --
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 14,912,004 $ 12.45
Granted 1,308,167 15.48
Exercised(2) (1,497,807 ) 9.57
Canceled (538,638 ) 27.16
Outstanding at December 31, 2017(3) 14,183,726 12.48 1.9 yrs. $ 37
Exercisable at December 31, 2017 9,653,511 $ 12.34 1.3 yrs. $ 26

 (1) The aggregate intrinsic value represents the total intrinsic value (the aggregate difference between our closing stock price on December 31, 2017 and the exercise price of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders if all in-the-money options had been exercised on December 31, 2017.

 (2) The total intrinsic value of Navient stock options exercised was $9 million, $13 million and $19 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

 (3) As of December 31, 2017, there was $1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years.

The following table summarizes Navient s restricted stock activity in 2017.

 Number of Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value
---------------------------------- ---------------- ------- - -------------------------------------- - -----
Non-vested at December 31, 2016 — $ —
Granted 59,124 15.39
Vested(1) (50,727 ) 15.37
Canceled (8,397 ) 15.48
Non-vested at December 31, 2017(2) — $ —

 (1) The total fair value of Navient shares that vested was $1 million, $1 million and $1 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

 (2) As of December 31, 2017, there was no unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock.

The following table summarizes Navient s RSU and PSU activity in 2017.

 Number of RSUs/PSUs Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value
--------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------- - -------------------------------------- - -----
Outstanding at December 31, 2016 4,372,376 $ 12.56
Granted 1,817,218 15.41
Vested and converted to common stock(1) (1,724,568 ) 13.58
Canceled (36,721 ) 12.95
Outstanding at December 31, 2017(2) 4,428,305 $ 13.33

 (1) The total fair value of Navient RSUs and PSUs that vested and converted to common stock was $23 million, $30 million and $29 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

 (2) As of December 31, 2017, there was $16 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to RSUs and PSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.4 years.

The following table summarizes the valuation of our financial instruments that are marked-to-market on a recurring basis. During 2017 and 2016, there were no significant transfers of financial instruments between levels.

 Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis
---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------- - ----------------- - ---- ------- - ----- - ------- ---- - ------- - - ------- - ----- - - ------ - - ------ -
 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
(Dollars in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Available-for-sale investments:
Agency residential mortgage- backed securities $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 1 $ — $ 1
Other — 2 — 2 — 2 — 2
Total available-for-sale investments — 2 — 2 — 3 — 3
Derivative instruments:(1)
Interest rate swaps — 388 4 392 — 553 12 565
Cross-currency interest rate swaps — — 88 88 — — — —
Total derivative assets(2) — 388 92 480 — 553 12 565
Total $ — $ 390 $ 92 $ 482 $ — $ 556 $ 12 $ 568
Liabilities(3)
Derivative instruments(1)
Interest rate swaps $ — $ (144 ) $ (45 ) $ (189 ) $ — $ (150 ) $ (58 ) $ (208 )
Floor Income Contracts — (74 ) — (74 ) — (184 ) — (184 )
Cross-currency interest rate swaps — (44 ) (410 ) (454 ) — (53 ) (1,243 ) (1,296 )
Other — — (18 ) (18 ) — — (13 ) (13 )
Total derivative liabilities(2) — (262 ) (473 ) (735 ) — (387 ) (1,314 ) (1,701 )
Total $ — $ (262 ) $ (473 ) $ (735 ) $ — $ (387 ) $ (1,314 ) $ (1,701 )

(1) Fair value of derivative instruments excludes accrued interest and the value of collateral.

(2) See “Note 7 — Derivative Financial Instruments” for a reconciliation of gross positions without the impact of master netting agreements to the balance sheet classification.

(3) Borrowings which are the hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship and which are adjusted for changes in value due to benchmark interest rates only are not carried at full fair value and are not reflected in this table.

The following tables summarize the change in balance sheet carrying value associated with level 3 financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis.

 Year Ended December 31, 2017
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- --- - ---------------------------------- - ------ ----- - ---------------------------- - - ------ -
 Derivative Instruments
(Dollars in millions) Interest Rate Swaps Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps Other Total Derivative Instruments
Balance, beginning of period $ (46 ) $ (1,243 ) $ (13 ) $ (1,302 )
Total gains/(losses) (realized and unrealized):
Included in earnings(1) — 803 (15 ) 788
Included in other comprehensive income — — — —
Settlements 5 118 10 133
Transfers in and/or out of level 3 — — — —
Balance, end of period $ (41 ) $ (322 ) $ (18 ) $ (381 )
Change in unrealized gains/(losses) relating to instruments still held at the reporting date(2) $ 5 $ 795 $ (5 ) $ 795

 Year Ended December 31, 2016
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- --- - ---------------------------------- - ------ ----- - ---------------------------- - - ------ -
 Derivative Instruments
(Dollars in millions) Interest Rate Swaps Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps Other Total Derivative Instruments
Balance, beginning of period $ (44 ) $ (903 ) $ (2 ) $ (949 )
Total gains/(losses) (realized and unrealized):
Included in earnings(1) 3 (428 ) (14 ) (439 )
Included in other comprehensive income — — — —
Settlements 3 88 3 94
Transfers in and/or out of level 3(3) (8 ) — — (8 )
Balance, end of period $ (46 ) $ (1,243 ) $ (13 ) $ (1,302 )
Change in unrealized gains/(losses) relating to instruments still held at the reporting date(2) $ 7 $ (340 ) $ (11 ) $ (344 )

 Year Ended December 31, 2015
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- --- - ---------------------------------- - ---- ----- - ---------------------------- - - ---- -
 Derivative Instruments
(Dollars in millions) Interest Rate Swaps Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps Other Total Derivative Instruments
Balance, beginning of period $ (88 ) $ (117 ) $ (11 ) $ (216 )
Total gains/(losses) (realized and unrealized):
Included in earnings(1) 39 (796 ) 6 (751 )
Included in other comprehensive income — — — —
Settlements 5 10 3 18
Transfers in and/or out of level 3 — — — —
Balance, end of period $ (44 ) $ (903 ) $ (2 ) $ (949 )
Change in unrealized gains/(losses) relating to instruments still held at the reporting date(2) $ 37 $ (783 ) $ 9 $ (737 )

 (1) “Included in earnings” is comprised of the following amounts recorded in the specified line item in the consolidated statements of income:

 Years Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ---- - ---- - ---- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net $ 906 $ (351 ) $ (741 )
Interest expense (118 ) (88 ) (10 )
Total $ 788 $ (439 ) $ (751 )

 (1) Recorded in “gains (losses) on derivative and hedging activities, net” in the consolidated statements of income.

 (2) Consumer Price Index/LIBOR basis swaps were transferred from level 3 to level 2 in the fourth quarter of 2016 due to the conclusion that these swaps now trade in an active market.

The following table presents the significant inputs that are unobservable or from inactive markets used in the recurring valuations of the level 3 financial instruments detailed above.

(Dollars in millions) Fair Value at December 31, 2017 Valuation Technique Input Range (Weighted Average)
---------------------------------- ------------------------------- ---- - ------------------- -------------------- ----- ----------------------------------- ------------------------ ------------------
Derivatives
Prime/LIBOR basis swaps $ (41 ) Discounted cash flow Constant Prepayment Rate 6%
 Bid/ask adjustment to discount rate .08% — .08% (.08%)
Cross-currency interest rate swaps (322 ) Discounted cash flow Constant Prepayment Rate 4%
Other (18 )
Total $ (381 )

The following table summarizes the fair values of our financial assets and liabilities, including derivative financial instruments.

 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016
-------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------- - ----------------- - ------- ---------- - ---------- - -------------- ------- - ---------- - ------- - - ------ -
(Dollars in millions) Fair Value Carrying Value Difference Fair Value Carrying Value Difference
Earning assets
FFELP Loans $ 82,271 $ 81,703 $ 568 $ 86,626 $ 87,730 $ (1,104 )
Private Education Loans 24,421 23,419 1,002 23,191 23,340 (149 )
Cash and investments(1) 5,034 5,034 — 5,203 5,203 —
Total earning assets 111,726 110,156 1,570 115,020 116,273 (1,253 )
Interest-bearing liabilities
Short-term borrowings 4,783 4,771 (12 ) 2,346 2,334 (12 )
Long-term borrowings 104,921 105,012 91 109,826 112,368 2,542
Total interest-bearing liabilities 109,704 109,783 79 112,172 114,702 2,530
Derivative financial instruments
Floor Income Contracts (74 ) (74 ) — (184 ) (184 ) —
Interest rate swaps 203 203 — 357 357 —
Cross-currency interest rate swaps (366 ) (366 ) — (1,296 ) (1,296 ) —
Other (18 ) (18 ) — (13 ) (13 ) —
Excess of net asset fair value over carrying value $ 1,649 $ 1,277

(1) “Cash and investments” includes available-for-sale investments whose cost basis is $2 million and $3 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, versus a fair value of $2 million and $3 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Reconciliations of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rates to our effective tax rate for continuing operations follow:

 Years Ended December 31,
----------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ ---- - ---- ---- ---- ---- -
 2017 2016 2015
Statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 %
DTA Remeasurement Loss(1) 27.2 — —
Net excess tax benefits related to stock-based incentive payments (.7 ) — —
State tax, net of federal benefit .8 3.8 2.6
Other, net (.5 ) (.3 ) .1
Effective tax rate 61.8 % 38.5 % 37.7 %

 (1) The TCJA, enacted on December 22, 2017, made significant changes to all aspects of income taxation, including a reduction to the corporate federal statutory tax rate. GAAP requires the effects of the TCJA to be recognized in the period the law is enacted, even though the effective date of the law for most provisions is January 1, 2018. The primary impact to us is the reduction to the corporate federal statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent as of January 1, 2018. This rate reduction required us to remeasure our deferred tax asset at December 31, 2017, at the 21 percent corporate federal statutory tax rate and resulted in a DTA Remeasurement Loss of $208 million for GAAP, which is reflected as incremental income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Income tax expense consists of:

 December 31,
------------------------------------------ ------------ --- - ---- - --- ---- - ---
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Current provision/(benefit):
Federal $ 77 $ 246 $ 136
State (3 ) 47 22
Foreign 3 1 —
Total current provision/(benefit) 77 294 158
Deferred provision/(benefit):
Federal 385 115 398
State 11 18 41
Foreign (1 ) — —
Total deferred provision/(benefit) 395 133 439
Provision for income tax expense/(benefit) $ 472 $ 427 $ 597

The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities include the following:

 December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------ --- ---- - ---
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016
Deferred tax assets:
Loan reserves $ 317 $ 581
Education loan premiums and discounts, net 52 74
Operating loss and credit carryovers 22 5
Stock-based compensation plans 18 32
Accrued expenses not currently deductible 24 33
Market value adjustments on education loans, investments and derivatives 9 65
Deferred revenue — 37
Other 14 40
Total deferred tax assets 456 867
Deferred tax liabilities:
Unrealized derivatives and investment gains and losses, net 23 3
Original issue discount on borrowings 11 27
Debt repurchases 8 —
Other 22 35
Total deferred tax liabilities 64 65
Net deferred tax assets $ 392 $ 802

The following table summarizes changes in unrecognized tax benefits:

 December 31,
---------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ----- - ---- - ---- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
Unrecognized tax benefits at beginning of year $ 73.0 $ 56.3 $ 51.9
Increases resulting from tax positions taken during a prior period .7 19.9 1.6
Decreases resulting from tax positions taken during a prior period (1.8 ) (5.6 ) (1.8 )
Increases resulting from tax positions taken during the current period 4.4 4.4 6.9
Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities (5.1 ) (.1 ) —
Increases related to settlements with taxing authorities — — —
Reductions related to the lapse of statute of limitations (13.8 ) (1.9 ) (2.3 )
Unrecognized tax benefits at end of year $ 57.4 $ 73.0 $ 56.3

The following table includes asset information for our FFELP Loans segment.

 December 31,
----------------------- ------------ ------ ---- - ------
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016
FFELP Loans, net $ 81,703 $ 87,730
Cash and investments(1) 2,750 3,212
Other 2,404 1,907
Total assets $ 86,857 $ 92,849

 (1) Includes restricted cash and investments.

The following table includes asset information for our Private Education Loans segment.

 December 31,
---------------------------- ------------ ------ ---- - ------
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016
Private Education Loans, net $ 23,419 $ 23,340
Cash and investments(1) 706 667
Other 1,137 1,567
Total assets $ 25,262 $ 25,574

 (1) Includes restricted cash and investments.

Segment Results and Reconciliations to GAAP

 Year Ended December 31, 2017
------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ----- --------------- ------- ----- ----------------- - ----- --------------- ---- - --------------- - ---- ----------------- ----- - ------------------------- ----------- -------------------- --- - ---------- - --- - - --- - - ----- -
 Private Total Adjustments
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Education Loans Business Services Other Eliminations(1) “Core Earnings” Reclassifications Additions/ (Subtractions) Total Adjustments(2) Total GAAP
Interest income:
Education loans $ 2,679 $ 1,634 $ — $ — $ — $ 4,313 $ 69 $ (55 ) $ 14 $ 4,327
Other loans — — — 13 — 13 — — — 13
Cash and investments 30 4 — 9 — 43 — — — 43
Total interest income 2,709 1,638 — 22 — 4,369 69 (55 ) 14 4,383
Total interest expense 2,016 825 — 149 — 2,990 (8 ) (11 ) (19 ) 2,971
Net interest income (loss) 693 813 — (127 ) — 1,379 77 (44 ) 33 1,412
Less: provisions for loan losses 42 382 — 2 — 426 — — — 426
Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 651 431 — (129 ) — 953 77 (44 ) 33 986
Other income (loss):
Servicing revenue 49 10 579 — (348 ) 290 — — — 290
Asset recovery and business processing revenue — — 475 — — 475 — — — 475
Other income — — — 19 — 19 (77 ) 89 12 31
Gains on sales of loans and investments — — — 3 — 3 — — — 3
Losses on debt repurchases — — — (3 ) — (3 ) — — — (3 )
Total other income (loss) 49 10 1,054 19 (348 ) 784 (77 ) 89 12 796
Expenses:
Direct operating expenses 357 165 527 27 (348 ) 728 — — — 728
Overhead expenses — — — 238 — 238 — — — 238
Operating expenses 357 165 527 265 (348 ) 966 — — — 966
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — — — — — — 23 23 23
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — 29 — 29 — — — 29
Total expenses 357 165 527 294 (348 ) 995 — 23 23 1,018
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 343 276 527 (404 ) — 742 — 22 22 764
Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 124 99 190 78 — 491 — (19 ) (19 ) 472
Net income (loss) $ 219 $ 177 $ 337 $ (482 ) $ — $ 251 $ — $ 41 $ 41 $ 292

(1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment.

(2) “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:

 Year Ended December 31, 2017
------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- -- ---------------------------------- - --- ----- - --- -
(Dollars in millions) Net Impact of Derivative Accounting Net Impact of Acquired Intangibles Total
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 33 $ — $ 33
Total other income (loss) 12 — 12
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — 23 23
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ 45 $ (23 ) 22
Income tax expense (benefit) (19 )
Net income (loss) $ 41

(3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment with the impact of the DTA Remeasurement Loss included in the Other segment.

 Year Ended December 31, 2016
------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------- ----- --------------- ------- ----- ----------------- - ----- --------------- ---- - --------------- - ---- ----------------- ----- - ------------------------- ----------- -------------------- ---- - ---------- - ---- - - --- - -----
 Private Total Adjustments
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Education Loans Business Services Other Eliminations(1) “Core Earnings” Reclassifications Additions/ (Subtractions) Total Adjustments(2) Total GAAP
Interest income:
Education loans $ 2,395 $ 1,587 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,982 $ 247 $ (114 ) $ 133 $ 4,115
Other loans — — — 9 — 9 — — — 9
Cash and investments 16 2 — 4 — 22 — — — 22
Total interest income 2,411 1,589 — 13 — 4,013 247 (114 ) 133 4,146
Total interest expense 1,592 705 — 113 — 2,410 31 — 31 2,441
Net interest income (loss) 819 884 — (100 ) — 1,603 216 (114 ) 102 1,705
Less: provisions for loan losses 43 383 — 3 — 429 — — — 429
Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 776 501 — (103 ) — 1,174 216 (114 ) 102 1,276
Other income (loss):
Servicing revenue 55 14 624 — (389 ) 304 — — — 304
Asset recovery and business processing revenue — — 390 — — 390 — — — 390
Other income — — — 14 — 14 (216 ) 326 110 124
Gains on debt repurchases — — — 1 — 1 — — — 1
Total other income (loss) 55 14 1,014 15 (389 ) 709 (216 ) 326 110 819
Expenses:
Direct operating expenses 401 167 524 28 (389 ) 731 — — — 731
Overhead expenses — — — 220 — 220 — — — 220
Operating expenses 401 167 524 248 (389 ) 951 — — — 951
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — — — — — — 36 36 36
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — — — — — — — —
Total expenses 401 167 524 248 (389 ) 951 — 36 36 987
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 430 348 490 (336 ) — 932 — 176 176 1,108
Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 158 129 182 (124 ) — 345 — 82 82 427
Net income (loss) $ 272 $ 219 $ 308 $ (212 ) $ — $ 587 $ — $ 94 $ 94 $ 681

(1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment.

(2) “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:

 Year Ended December 31, 2016
------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- --- ---------------------------------- - --- ----- - ---
(Dollars in millions) Net Impact of Derivative Accounting Net Impact of Acquired Intangibles Total
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ 102 $ — $ 102
Total other income (loss) 110 — 110
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — 36 36
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ 212 $ (36 ) 176
Income tax expense (benefit) 82
Net income (loss) $ 94

(3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment with the impact of the DTA Remeasurement Loss included in the Other segment.

 Year Ended December 31, 2015
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- --------------- ------- ----- ----------------- - ----- ----------------- ---- - --------------- - ---- ------------------- ----- - ------------------------- ----------- -------------------- ---- - ---------- - ---- - - --- - ----- -
 Private Total Adjustments
(Dollars in millions) FFELP Loans Education Loans Business Services Other Elimina- tions(1) “Core Earnings” Reclassi- fications Additions/ (Subtractions) Total Adjustments(2) Total GAAP
Interest income:
Education loans $ 2,112 $ 1,756 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,868 $ 650 $ (238 ) $ 412 $ 4,280
Other loans — — — 7 — 7 — — — 7
Cash and investments 6 — — 2 — 8 — — — 8
Total interest income 2,118 1,756 — 9 — 3,883 650 (238 ) 412 4,295
Total interest expense 1,245 680 — 112 — 2,037 37 — 37 2,074
Net interest income (loss) 873 1,076 — (103 ) — 1,846 613 (238 ) 375 2,221
Less: provisions for loan losses 46 538 — (3 ) — 581 — — — 581
Net interest income (loss) after provisions for loan losses 827 538 — (100 ) — 1,265 613 (238 ) 375 1,640
Other income (loss):
Servicing revenue 95 21 651 — (427 ) 340 — — — 340
Asset recovery and business processing revenue — — 367 — — 367 — — — 367
Other income — — 4 11 — 15 (613 ) 781 168 183
Gains (losses) on sales of loans and investments 12 (21 ) — — — (9 ) — — — (9 )
Gains on debt repurchases — — — 21 — 21 — — — 21
Total other income (loss) 107 — 1,022 32 (427 ) 734 (613 ) 781 168 902
Expenses:
Direct operating expenses 443 168 485 30 (427 ) 699 — — — 699
Overhead expenses — — — 219 — 219 — — — 219
Operating expenses 443 168 485 249 (427 ) 918 — — — 918
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — — — — — — 12 12 12
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses — — — — — — — 32 32 32
Total expenses 443 168 485 249 (427 ) 918 — 44 44 962
Income (loss) from continuing operations, before income tax expense (benefit) 491 370 537 (317 ) — 1,081 — 499 499 1,580
Income tax expense (benefit)(3) 183 137 199 (118 ) — 401 — 196 196 597
Net income (loss) from continuing operations 308 233 338 (199 ) — 680 — 303 303 983
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax expense — — — 1 — 1 — — — 1
Net income (loss) $ 308 $ 233 $ 338 $ (198 ) $ — $ 681 $ — $ 303 $ 303 $ 984

(1) The eliminations in servicing revenue and direct operating expense represent the elimination of intercompany servicing revenue where the Business Services segment performs the loan servicing function for the FFELP Loans segment.

(2) “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:

 Year Ended December 31, 2015
------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------- --- - ----------------------------------- - --- ---------------------------------- - ----- - - ---
(Dollars in millions) Net Impact from Spin-Off of SLM BankCo Net Impact of Derivative Accounting Net Impact of Acquired Intangibles Total
Net interest income after provisions for loan losses $ — $ 375 $ — $ 375
Total other income (loss) — 168 — 168
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment and amortization — — 12 12
Restructuring/other reorganization expenses 32 — — 32
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ (32 ) $ 543 $ (12 ) 499
Income tax expense (benefit) 196
Net income (loss) $ 303

(3) Income taxes are based on a percentage of net income before tax for the individual reportable segment with the impact of the DTA Remeasurement Loss included in the Other segment.

Summary of Core Earnings Adjustments to GAAP

 Years Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------ --- - ---- - --- ---- - ---- -
(Dollars in millions) 2017 2016 2015
“Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP:
Net impact of the removal of SLM BankCo’s operations and restructuring and reorganization expense in connection with the Spin-Off(1) $ — $ — $ (32 )
Net impact of derivative accounting(2) 45 212 543
Net impact of goodwill and acquired intangible assets(3) (23 ) (36 ) (12 )
Net tax effect(4) 19 (82 ) (196 )
Total “Core Earnings” adjustments to GAAP $ 41 $ 94 $ 303

(1) SLM BankCo’s operations and restructuring and other reorganization expense in connection with the Spin-Off: For “Core Earnings,” we have assumed the consumer banking business (SLM BankCo) was never a part of Navient’s historical results prior to the deemed distribution of SLM BankCo on April 30, 2014 and we have removed the r

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 14]:
NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments We lease certain of our facilities and some of our equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Rent expense includes base contractual rent and variable costs such as building expenses, utilities, taxes, insurance and equipment rental. Rent expense for these leases was approximately $115.4 million in fiscal 2017 and $92.9 million in both fiscal 2016 and 2015. Our sublease income was immaterial for all periods presented. We occupy three office buildings in San Jose, California where our corporate headquarters are located. We reference these office buildings as the Almaden, East and West Towers. In March 2017, we exercised our option to purchase the Almaden Tower for a total purchase price of $103.6 million. Upon purchase, our investment in the lease receivable of $80.4 million was credited against the total purchase price. We capitalized the Almaden Tower as property and equipment on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at $104.2 million, the lesser of cost or fair value, which represented the total purchase price plus other direct costs associated with the purchase. As of December 1, 2017, we own the buildings and the underlying land that make up our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California, including the Almaden Tower. Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. 90  ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations and operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 1, 2017 (in thousands): ----------- ------- -------------------- -------------------------- - --------------------------- ----- - ------ Operating Leases Fiscal Year Purchase O...

[See Note 10]:
Note 10. Stockholders' Equity Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As of December 31, 2017, we are authorized to issue 5,000 million shares of Class A common stock and 4,141 million shares of Class B common stock, each with a par value of $0.000006 per share. Holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock are entitled to dividends when, as and if, declared by our board of directors, subject to the rights of the holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights to dividends. As of December 31, 2017, we have not declared any dividends and our credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. The holder of each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote, while the holder of each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. Shares of our Class B common stock are convertible into an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock and generally convert into shares of our Class A common stock upon transfer. Class A common stock and Class B common stock are referred to as common stock throughout the notes to these financial statements, unless otherwise noted. As of December 31, 2017, there were 2,397 million shares and 509 million shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, respectively, issued and outstanding. Abandonment of the Reclassification In September 2017, our board of directors decided to abandon the proposal to create a new class of non-voting capital stock (Class C capital stock) and the intention to issue a dividend of two shares of Class C capital stock for each outstanding share of Class A and Class B common stock (the Reclassification). As a result, we will not proceed with the filing of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation which was approved by our stockholders on June 20, 2016. 77 Share Repurchase Program In November 2016, our board of directors authorized a $6.0 b...
