================================================================================
CIK: 0000014272
Company Name: BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB CO
Filing Date: 2021-02-10
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-01 12:33:06
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”

COVID-19 Pandemic Risks

The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting our business and could have a material adverse effect on us.
The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting how we operate our business. If the negative impact from the COVID-19 pandemic extends beyond our assumed timelines, our results may be worse than expected. The full extent of the impact will depend on future developments, such as the ultimate duration and the severity of the spread of COVID-19 in the U.S. and globally, the effectiveness of federal, state, local and foreign governments’ mitigation actions, the pandemic’s impact on the U.S. and global economies, as well as factors affecting healthcare and the delivery of medicines to patients, including but not limited to those discussed above under “Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Economic and Market Factors”, and how quickly we can return to more normal operations, among other things.

Although we currently do not anticipate any disruption to the supply of our medicines to patients due to COVID-19, it is possible that we could experience manufacturing or supply issues due to COVID-19 in the future, which would increase the negative impact on our business and results of operations. For instance, we are experiencing and may continue to experience scarcity of certain raw materials and components as a result of the influx of COVID-19 vaccine orders receiving priority treatment from vendors. In addition, if a natural disaster or other potentially disruptive event occurs on top of the current pandemic, it could deplete our safety stock levels and we could experience a manufacturing, supply or distribution issue.

We have started to re-engage in in-person interactions by our customer-facing (field) personnel in health care settings in the U.S. and a number of other markets. If we determine that it is no longer safe to engage in these in-person interactions, we will likely return to a remote model of engagement. This transition could have a negative impact on our business. It is also possible that there could be a longer-lasting shift in interactions between field personnel and health care professionals that we have not anticipated, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.

Although we have restarted clinical development activities, we continue to experience delays in the initiation and enrollment of patients in our clinical trials. We may not be able to fully mitigate these delays, which could negatively impact the timing of our pipeline development programs and expected future revenues and/or cash flows. In addition, we could experience additional delays or difficulties enrolling patients in clinical trials and/or delays or difficulties with our ongoing, fully enrolled clinical trials, which could further negatively impact the timing of our pipeline development programs and expected future revenues and/or cash flows. A prolonged clinical trial delay could potentially have a significant negative effect on our business, particularly if new competitive products enter the market or clinical trial results for our competitors’ products affect the value proposition for our product. Any such delays or difficulties in clinical development could also potentially lead to a material impairment of our intangible assets, including the approximately $53 billion of intangible assets as of December 31, 2020. In addition, although research and early development activities performed in laboratories have resumed, they were suspended for a period of time, which negatively impacted the advancement of early pipeline assets. We have plans to mitigate this impact, but if we are not be able to fully mitigate it, the breadth of our future pipeline opportunities could be adversely affected.

We cannot predict or reasonably estimate the impact of any potential long-term changes to the healthcare industry from COVID-19. For example, there is potential for a shift in the U.S. payer channel mix due to changes in patient coverage from the current economic crisis, but we are not able to reliably estimate what the impact would be on our results of operations given the highly variable and uncertain situation. It is also possible that changes in the healthcare system could impose additional burdens on clinical trials, which could increase the costs of sponsoring clinical trials or lead to additional delays or difficulties with completing clinical trials. We may also experience additional pricing pressures and/or increased governmental regulation.

We could face additional risks from the impact of COVID-19 on our suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties that we rely on to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products, manage certain marketing, selling, human resource, finance, IT and other business unit and functional services.

22

For example, if any of our third-party providers suffer from limited solvency because of the pandemic, it could negatively impact our operating model and our business. It is not possible to estimate the potential impact at this time.

The COVID-19 pandemic has increased the volatility of the financial markets, foreign currency exchanges and interest rates. Although we incurred downward adjustments to our equity investment fair values in the first quarter of 2020, the fair values have subsequently recovered. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen, interest rates continue to decline, and/or stock markets continue to decline, we could see a further reduction in revenues or other income or additional charges to our equity investments, which could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flows.

We are facing and could continue to face potential other negative consequences stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to increased cyber threats to us and our partners such as phishing, social engineering and malware attacks, delays in planned integration milestones and ability to collect our receivables. It is possible that COVID-19 could exacerbate any of the other risks described in this 2020 Form 10-K as well.

At this time, we cannot predict the full extent of the negative impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.

Product, Industry and Operational Risks

Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad continue to negatively affect our revenues and profit margins.
Our products continue to be subject to increasing pressures across the portfolio from pharmaceutical market access and pricing controls and discounting, changes to tax and importation laws and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world that result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and smaller populations for whom payers will reimburse, which negatively impact our revenues and profit margins, including from (i) the impact of the increased pricing pressure from Medicare Part D formularies, Medicare Part B reimbursement rates (including the potential implementation of the pilot program by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) that would, among other things, set payment amounts to physicians on Part B drugs based on international drug prices and would include the Top 50 (by spending) Medicare Part B single source drugs, which would apply to many cancer medications), expanded utilization under the 340B Drug Pricing Program (“340B”), as well as commercial formularies in general; (ii) rules and practices of MCOs and institutional and governmental purchasers taking actions to control costs or shift the cost burden to manufacturers, including actions that could result in the exclusion of a product from, or the unfavorable placement of, a product on a MCO formulary; (iii) government administrative and policy changes and changes in laws and regulations for federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, other government actions and inquiries at the federal level that seek to amend pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement practices such as using international pricing indexes, modifying the federal Anti-Kickback statute discount safe harbor, accelerating generic drug approval processes and granting additional authority to governmental agencies to manage drug utilization and negotiate drug prices (including the implementation of the 2020 regulation issued by the U.S. federal government authorizing states and private parties to develop and implement programs to import certain prescription drugs from Canada and sell them in the U.S.) and laws at the state level (including laws that have been enacted in California, Vermont, Nevada and New York that are focused on drug cost transparency and/or limiting state spending on drugs); (iv) the potential impact of changes to U.S. federal pharmaceutical coverage and reimbursement policies and practices, including from the December 21, 2020 final rule issued by the CMS on the calculation of average manufacturer price, best price, and Medicaid rebates that addresses copay assistance and product line extensions among other topics, and a previously issued rule addressing the inclusion of sales in U.S. Territories in the calculation of average manufacturer price and best price beginning on April 1, 2022); (v) the increased scrutiny of drug manufacturers (including any additional review of the Company or Celgene by the House Oversight and Reform Committee); (vi) reimbursement delays; (vii) government price erosion mechanisms across Europe and in other countries resulting in deflation for pharmaceutical product pricing; (viii) the increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid and private sector beneficiaries; (ix) collection delays or failures to pay in government-funded public hospitals outside the U.S.; (x) the impact on pricing from parallel trade and drug importation across borders; (xi) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers; and (xii) inhibited market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared to competing products. We expect that these market access constraints, pharmaceutical pricing controls and discounting and other restrictions will become more acute and will continue to negatively affect our future revenues and profit margins.

Additionally, in early 2016, Health Resources and Services Administration (“HRSA”) finalized a regulation regarding the 340B pricing methodology and providing guidelines for when civil monetary penalties may be issued for “knowing and intentional” manufacturer overcharges of 340B covered entities. The effective date of this regulation was January 1, 2019. Following the effective date, manufacturers who are found to have knowingly and intentionally overcharged 340B covered

23

entities could be subject to significant monetary penalties. Such findings could also result in negative publicity that could harm the manufacturer’s reputation or cause business disruption. On December 10, 2020, HRSA issued the 340B Drug Pricing Program Alternative Dispute Resolution Final Rule (“ADR Final Rule”), which went into effect on January 13, 2021. The ADR Final Rule establishes an alternative dispute resolution (“ADR”) process for certain disputes (including disputes about overcharges, duplicate discounts or diversion). On December 30, 2020, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of the General Counsel released an advisory opinion concluding that drug manufacturers are required to deliver discounts under the 340B Program on covered outpatient drugs when contract pharmacies are acting as agents of 340B covered entities. Over the course of the past few years, Celgene had received inquiries from HRSA regarding the limited distribution networks for Revlimid, Pomalyst, and Thalomid and compliance with the 340B program. We believe that we have complied with applicable legal requirements. If we are ultimately required to change our sales or pricing practices with regard to the distribution of these drugs under the 340B program, or if we were required to pay penalties under the applicable regulations, there would be an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.

The public announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors’, products or late-stage compounds may cause significant volatility in our stock price and depending on the data, may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the development of any of our key late-stage product candidates is delayed or discontinued or a clinical study does not meet one or more of its primary endpoints, our stock price could decline significantly and there may be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We are focusing our efforts and resources in disease areas of high unmet need. With our more focused portfolio, investors are placing heightened scrutiny on some of our products or late-stage compounds. We have, however, experienced setbacks and may continue to do so as there are further developments in our clinical studies. For example, in December 2020, we announced that CheckMate -548, a Phase 3 trial evaluating the addition of Opdivo to the current standard of care (temozolomide and radiation therapy) in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) with O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation following surgical resection of the tumor, did not meet its primary endpoint of overall survival (OS) in patients with no baseline corticosteroid use or in the overall randomized population. Additionally, we inherited many late-stage compounds as well as prioritized brand portfolio in hematology and immunology through our acquisition of Celgene that may not meet expectations.

The announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors’, products or late-stage compounds, such as Opdivo, has and will continue to cause significant volatility in our stock price and, depending on the news, may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the announcement of any negative or unexpected data or the discontinuation of development of any of our key late-stage product candidates, any delay in our anticipated timelines for filing for regulatory approval or a significant advancement of a competitor, has and will continue to cause our stock price to decline significantly and may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is no assurance that data from our clinical studies will support filings for regulatory approval, that our key product candidates may prove to be effective or as effective as other competing products, that, even if approved, any such products will become commercially successful for all approved indications, or that the indications of key products approved under the U.S. FDA’s Accelerated Approval Program that continued approval is contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials will be withdrawn.

We could lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.
In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product’s commercial value is realized during its market exclusivity period. In the U.S. and in some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions are approved and marketed or when biosimilars are introduced (even if only for a competing product), there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in a product’s revenues.

Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights, if any, varies from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in a country. The failure to obtain or maintain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including certain EU member states, basic patent protections for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain specific types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those countries. In addition, the patent environment can be unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, manufacturers of innovative drugs as well as generic drug manufacturers may be able to design their products around our owned or licensed patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic or alternative versions can be approved and marketed.

24

Generic and biosimilar product manufacturers as well as other groups seeking financial gain are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and we could face earlier-than-expected competition for any products at any time. Patents covering our key products have been, and are likely to continue to be, subject to validity, enforceability and noninfringement challenges in patent litigations and post-grant review patent office proceedings. Although we are confident in the strength of our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for generic drug companies to successfully challenge our rights and launch their generic versions of our drugs prior to the expiration of our intellectual property rights. In addition, in order to avoid the uncertainty and expense of litigation, among other reasons, we may decide to enter into settlements with generic manufacturers that permit generic competition prior to the expiration of our intellectual property rights. For example, we expect that some generic drug companies may market generic versions of Revlimid in the major European markets before the expiration of our intellectual property rights. In particular, as a result of patent settlements, we expect generic entry for Revlimid in the United Kingdom beginning on January 18, 2022, and in various other European countries where our Supplemental Protection Certificate is in force beginning on February 18, 2022.

In some cases, manufacturers may seek regulatory approval by submitting their own clinical study data to obtain marketing approval or choose to launch a generic product “at risk” before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. In addition, some countries are allowing competitors to manufacture and sell competing generic products, which negatively impacts the protections afforded the Company. Lower-priced generics or biosimilars for BMS biologic products or competing biologics could negatively impact our volumes and prices.

In addition, both the U.S. Congress and the U.S. FDA have taken steps to promote the development and approval of generic drugs and biosimilar biologics. For example, in December 2019, the U.S. Congress enacted legislation intended to facilitate generic companies’ access to drug samples. Section 610 of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, provides generic and biosimilar developers a private right of action to obtain sufficient quantities of drug samples from the reference product’s manufacturer in order to conduct testing necessary to obtain approval for generic or biosimilar products. This new law has the potential to have an adverse impact on our business.

There is no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full time period that appears in the estimates disclosed in this 2020 Form 10-K or that we assume when we provide our financial guidance.

We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.
Compounds or products may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or at all. For example, we did not receive a decision on our BLA for liso-cel for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory (R/R) large B-cell lymphoma after at least two prior therapies by December 31, 2020 and as a result, on January 1, 2021, the Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2019, pursuant to which contingent value rights that we issued in connection with the Celgene transaction terminated automatically in accordance with its terms and the contingent value rights are no longer eligible for payment under the Contingent Value Rights Agreement. In addition, product extensions or additional indications may not be approved. Furthermore, products or indications approved under the U.S. FDA’s Accelerated Approval Program may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory studies and such studies may not be successful. For example, in December 2020, we announced that we withdrew Opdivo’s indication for the treatment of patients with SCLC whose disease has progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other line of therapy, which had been granted as an accelerated approval in 2018. This action was taken in consultation with the U.S. FDA in accordance with its standard procedures for evaluating accelerated approvals that have not met their post-marketing requirements and as part of a broader industry-wide evaluation.

Developing and commercializing new compounds and products involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including (i) efficacy and safety concerns, delayed or denied regulatory approvals, delays or challenges with producing products on a commercial scale or excessive costs to manufacture products; (ii) inability to enroll patients and timely completion of the clinical trials; (iii) failure to enter into or implement optimal alliances for the development and/or commercialization of new products; (iv) failure to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; (v) failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability; and (vi) changes in regulatory approval processes may cause delays or denials of new product approvals.

We are unable to predict whether and when any further changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting our business could occur. For example, in the U.S., a partial federal government shutdown halted the work of many federal agencies and their employees from late December 2018 through late January 2019. While federal employees have since returned to work, a subsequent extended shutdown could result in reductions or delays of U.S. FDA’s activities, including with respect to our ongoing clinical programs, our manufacturing of our products and product candidates and our product approvals.

Regulatory approval delays are especially common when a product is expected to have a REMS, as required by the U.S. FDA to address significant risk/benefit issues, and we expect that certain of our future key products will be distributed in the U.S.

25

primarily through a REMS program. The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. In addition, if certain acquired pipeline programs are canceled or we believe their commercial prospects have been reduced, we may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs. Finally, losing key molecules and intermediaries or our compound library through a natural or man-made disaster or act of sabotage could negatively impact the product development cycle.

Certain novel approaches to the treatment of diseases, such as chimeric antigen receptor (“CAR”) T cell therapy, may present significant challenges and risks for us.
The development of novel approaches for the treatment of diseases, such as our acquisition in November 2019 of Celgene’s and Juno’s CAR T cell therapy programs, including Breyanzi (liso-cel) and ide-cel, presents many new challenges and risks due to the unique nature of genetic modification of patient cells ex vivo using certain viruses to reengineer these cells to ultimately treat diseases, including obtaining regulatory approval from U.S. FDA and other regulatory agencies that have limited experience with the development of cellular therapies involving genetic modification of patient cells; developing and deploying consistent and reliable processes, while limiting contamination, for engineering a patient’s cells ex vivo and infusing genetically modified cells back into the patient; developing processes for the safe administration of cellular therapies, including long-term follow-up for patients receiving cellular therapies; and sourcing additional clinical and, if approved, commercial supplies for the materials used to manufacture and process our potential CAR T products. The use of reengineered cells as a potential cancer treatment is a recent development and may not be broadly accepted by the regulatory, patient or medical communities. Further, we may not be able to satisfactorily establish the safety and efficacy or the reliability of these therapies through health authority approval, or demonstrate the potential advantages and side effects compared to existing and future therapies. Regulatory requirements governing gene and cell therapy products have changed frequently and may continue to change in the future. Furthermore, certain payment models could impact the interest of appropriate treatment sites in administering CAR T cell therapies, thereby limiting patient access. To date, only a few products that involve the genetic modification of patient cells have been approved for commercial sale. Moreover, the safety profiles of cellular therapies may adversely influence public perception and may adversely influence the willingness of subjects to participate in clinical trials, or if approved, of physicians and payers to subscribe to these novel treatment approaches. If we fail to overcome these and other challenges, or if significant adverse events are reported from similar therapies, our development of these novel treatment approaches may be hampered or delayed, which could adversely affect our future anticipated revenues and/or profitability related to these therapeutic programs.

We face intense competition from other manufacturers.
BMS is dependent on the market access, uptake and expansion for marketed brands, new product introductions, new indications, product extensions and co-promotional activities with alliance partners, to deliver future growth. Competition is keen and includes (i) lower-priced generics and increasingly aggressive generic commercialization tactics, (ii) new competitive products entering the market, particularly in IO, (iii) lower prices for other companies’ products, real or perceived superior efficacy (benefit) or safety (risk) profiles or other differentiating factors, (iv) technological advances and patents attained by our competitors, (v) clinical study results from our products or a competitor’s products that affect the value proposition for our products, (vi) business combinations among our competitors and major third-party payers and (vii) competing interests for external partnerships to develop and bring new products to markets. If we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors’ products in the marketplace, this could have a material negative impact on our revenues and earnings.

We could experience difficulties, delays and disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.
Our product supply and related patient access has been, and could in the future be, negatively impacted by difficulties, delays and disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. Some of the difficulties, delays and disruptions include: (i) product seizures or recalls or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) our failure, or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers, to comply with cGMP and other applicable regulations or quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays; (iv) the failure of a supplier, including sole source or single source suppliers, to provide us with the necessary raw materials, supplies or finished goods within a reasonable timeframe and with required quality; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with bulk active or finished product on time; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays for new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products, such as Opdivo; (vii) the failure to meet new and emerging regulations requiring products to be tracked throughout the distribution channels using unique identifiers to verify their authenticity in the supply chain; (viii) other manufacturing or distribution issues, including limits to manufacturing capacity and changes in the types of products produced, such as biologics, physical limitations or other business interruptions; and (ix) disruption in supply chain continuity, including from natural disasters (such as hurricanes), global disease outbreaks such as COVID-19, acts of war or terrorism or other external factors over which we have no control impacting one or more of our facilities or at a critical supplier.

26

In addition, we have limited experience manufacturing CAR T cell therapies, and our processes may be more complicated or more expensive than the approaches taken by our current and future competitors. Our ability to source raw materials and supplies used to manufacture our CAR T cell therapies and to develop consistent and reliable manufacturing processes and distribution networks with an attractive cost of goods could impact future anticipated revenue and gross profit for our CAR T cell therapies. In addition, we may face challenges with sourcing raw materials and supplies for clinical and, if approved, commercial manufacturing. Logistical and shipment delays and other factors not in our control could prevent or delay the delivery of our product candidates to patients. Additionally, we are required to maintain a complex chain of identity and custody with respect to patient material as such material enters into and moves through the manufacturing process. As a result, even slight deviations at any point in the production process for our CAR T cell therapies or in material used in our CAR T cell therapies could result in loss of product or regulatory remedial action, which could adversely affect our future anticipated revenues and/or profitability related to our CAR T cell therapies.

We may encounter difficulties integrating ours and Celgene’s businesses and operations and, therefore, may not fully realize the projected benefits from our acquisition of Celgene.
The ultimate success of our acquisition of Celgene and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, including the expected cost savings and avoidance from synergies, innovation opportunities and operational efficiencies, depends on, among other things, how effective we are in integrating the Bristol Myers Squibb and Celgene operations, products and employees.

We are in the process of integrating a large number of manufacturing, operational and administrative systems to achieve consistency throughout the combined company, including with respect to human capital management, portfolio rationalization, finance and accounting systems, sales operations and product distribution, pricing systems and methodologies, cybersecurity systems, compliance programs and internal controls processes. This integration is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. If any difficulties in the integration of our operations were to occur, they could adversely affect our business, including, among other ways, causing a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies may adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, alliance partners, creditors, clinical trial investigators and managers of our clinical trials.

If we are unable to successfully combine the businesses in an efficient, cost-effective manner within the anticipated timeframe, the projected benefits and cost savings may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected and our business may be unable to grow as planned, which could materially impact our business, cash flow, financial condition or results of operations as well as adversely impact our share price. The integration process may also result in significant expenses and charges, both cash and noncash. The attention of certain members of our management and our resources will be at times focused on the integration of the businesses of the two companies and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our ongoing business.

Events outside our control, including changes in regulation and laws as well as economic trends, also could adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from this acquisition.

Regulatory, Intellectual Property, Litigation, Tax and Legal Compliance Risks

Litigation claiming infringement of intellectual property may adversely affect our future revenues and operating earnings.
We and certain of our subsidiaries are, and in the future may be, involved in various legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where third parties seek damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of their patents by our commercial or other activities. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require us to enter into license agreements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject us to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected product or products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.

Adverse outcomes in legal matters could negatively affect our business.
Current or future lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations could preclude or delay the commercialization of our products or could adversely affect our operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, after any possible insurance recoveries where available. Such legal matters include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability, consumer protection and commercial cases; (iii) anti-bribery regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or UK Bribery Act, including compliance with ongoing reporting obligations to the government resulting from any settlements; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of

27

manufacturing plants; (v) the alleged failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers or under other agreements relating to our business; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting, or investigations into, violations of securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing, consumer protection, data privacy and other laws and regulations; (viii) environmental, health, safety and sustainability matters; and (ix) tax liabilities resulting from assessments from tax authorities.

We are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations.
We are currently subject to a number of government laws and regulations and in the future, could become subject to new government laws and regulations. The costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, or the negative results of non-compliance, could adversely affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our Company. These include (i) new healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. or in other countries, including pharmaceutical market access and pricing controls and discounting, changes to tax and importation laws and other restrictions; (ii) judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, receivable payments and access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iii) changes in intellectual property law; (iv) changes with respect to U.S. FDA compliance of manufacturing products (especially concerning good practice guidelines and regulations); (v) changes in accounting standards; (vi) new and increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement, particularly in the EU and the U.S.; (vii) emerging and new global regulatory requirements for reporting payments and other value transfers to healthcare professionals; and (viii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or other regulatory changes.

In addition, the U.S. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. For example, the U.S. FDA has indicated it is undertaking an industry-wide review of indications that received accelerated approval and for which the confirmatory studies did not meet their primary endpoints. This is not specific to the Company, but in December 2020, we announced that we withdrew Opdivo’s indication for the treatment of patients with SCLC whose disease has progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other line of therapy, which had been granted as an accelerated approval in 2018. This action was taken in consultation with the U.S. FDA in accordance with its standard procedures for evaluating accelerated approvals that have not met their post-marketing requirements and as part of a broader industry-wide evaluation. Also, we anticipate continued U.S. congressional interest in modifying provisions of the Affordable Care Act, particularly given the ruling in Texas v. Azar to invalidate the law as unconstitutional. The revenues that we generate by the health insurance exchanges and Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act are not material, so the impact of the change in law and similar recent administration actions is expected to be limited. Any future replacement, modification or repeal of the Affordable Care Act may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how other future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.

Changes to tax regulations could negatively impact our earnings.
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various other countries globally. In particular, although the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 reduced the U.S. tax rate to 21%, the law is complex and further regulations and interpretations are still being issued. We could face audit challenges on how we apply the new law that could have a negative impact on our provision for income taxes. In addition, our future earnings could be negatively impacted by changes in tax legislation, including a repeal or modification of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, changes in tax rates and tax base such as limiting, phasing-out or eliminating deductions or tax credits, increase taxing of certain excess income from intellectual property, revising tax law interpretations in domestic or foreign jurisdictions, changes in rules for earnings repatriations and changes in other tax laws in the U.S. or other countries.

The failure of third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations could adversely affect our business.
We rely on suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products, manage certain marketing, human resource, finance, IT and other business unit and functional services and meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations. Using these third parties poses a number of risks, such as: (i) they may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, for example, in relation to the outsourcing of significant clinical development activities for innovative medicines to some contract research organizations; (ii) they may not produce reliable results; (iii) they may not perform in a timely manner; (iv) they may not maintain confidentiality of our proprietary information; (v) they may incur a significant cyberattack or business disruption; (vi) they may be subject to government orders or mandates that require them to give priority to the government and set aside pre-existing commercial orders; (vii) disputes may arise with respect to ownership of rights to technology developed with our partners; and (viii) disagreements could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of the product or result in litigation or arbitration. Moreover, some third parties are located in markets subject to political and social risks, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters, in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of any critical third party to meet its obligations, including for future royalty and milestone payments; to adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis; and/or to satisfactorily resolve significant disagreements with us or address other factors, could have a material adverse

28

impact on our operations and results. In addition, if these third parties violate, or are alleged to have violated, any laws or regulations, including the local pharmaceutical code, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, UK Bribery Act, the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, and other similar laws and regulations, during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.

Product labeling changes for our marketed products could result in a negative impact on revenues and profit margins.
We or regulatory authorities may need to change the labeling for any pharmaceutical product, including after a product has been marketed for several years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head studies, adverse events reports, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy) or other studies or post-marketing experience that produce important additional information about a product. New information added to a product’s label can affect its risk-benefit profile, leading to potential recalls, withdrawals or declining revenue, as well as product liability claims. Sometimes additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to a medicine or would be at higher risk of adverse reactions and labeling changes based on such studies may limit the patient population. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they could also be sponsored by competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, MCOs, scientists, investigators or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from such studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each product, it can also negatively impact our revenues due to inventory returns and a more limited patient population going forward. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head studies, could affect a product’s formulary listing, which could also adversely affect revenues.

The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or unregistered versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our revenues, earnings, reputation and business.
Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug or a product diverted from its authorized market may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name or diverted products. Thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are then not properly stored and are later sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business. In addition, diversion of products from their authorized market into other channels may result in reduced revenues and negatively affect our profitability.

Increased use of social media platforms present risks and challenges.
We are increasing our use of social media to communicate Company news and events. The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information from employees, patients, healthcare professionals or other stakeholders. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website could damage our reputation, brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public Company-sensitive information by our workforce or others, whether intentional or unintentional, through external media channels could lead to information loss.

Information Technology and Cybersecurity Risks

We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from cybersecurity breaches and data leakage.
We rely extensively on information technology systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools, physical security systems and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted provided and/or used for third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems or infrastructure, by our workforce, others with authorized access to our systems or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction of confidential information stored in our, or our third-party providers’, systems, portable media or storage devices. We could also experience a business interruption, theft of confidential information or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers. Although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the target of events of this nature and expect them to continue as cybersecurity threats have been rapidly evolving in sophistication and becoming more prevalent in the industry. We have invested in industry appropriate protections and monitoring practices of our data and IT to reduce these risks and continue to monitor our systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. While we maintain cyber insurance, this insurance may not, however, be sufficient to cover the financial, legal,

29

business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. There can be no assurance that our continuing efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches to our or our third-party providers’ databases or systems that could adversely affect our business.

Strategic, Business Development and Employee Attraction and Retention Risks

Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.
Our strategy is focused on delivering innovative, transformational medicines to patients in a focused set of disease areas. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy, this could negatively impact our future results of operations and market capitalization. In connection with this strategy, we are in the process of integrating Celgene and MyoKardia and our ability to successfully integrate Celgene and MyoKardia could impact our results of operations. If we are not able to achieve the cost savings that we expect, this could negatively impact our operating margin and earnings results. In addition, we may be unable to consistently maintain an adequate pipeline, through internal R&D programs or transactions with third parties, to support future revenue growth. Competition among pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities is intense, and we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices, or successfully execute such transactions. If we are unable to support and grow our marketed products, successfully execute the launches of newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline, manage change from our operating model evolution or manage our costs effectively, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted.

We depend on several key products for most of our revenues, cash flows and earnings.
We derive a majority of our revenue and earnings from several key products. Our 13 prioritized brands comprised approximately 95% of revenues in 2020. We expect that Revlimid, Eliquis, Opdivo and Pomalyst/Imnovid will represent a significant percentage of our revenue, earnings and cash flows. A reduction in revenue from any of these products could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows. Also, if one of our major products were to become subject to issues such as loss of patent protection, significant changes in demand, formulary access changes, material product liability, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, negative publicity, supply disruption from our manufacturing operations or third-party supplier or a significant advancement of competing products, we may incur an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or trading price of our stock.

Third-party royalties represent a significant percentage of our pretax income and operating cash flow.
We have entered into several arrangements which entitle us to potential royalties from third parties for out-licensed intellectual property, commercialization rights and sales-based contingent proceeds related to the divestiture of businesses. In many of these arrangements we have minimal, if any, continuing involvement that contribute to the financial success of those activities. Royalties have continued to represent a significant percentage of our pretax income, including royalties related to the divestiture of our diabetes business (including the transfer of certain future royalty rights pertaining to Amylin, Onglyza* and Farxiga* product sales), out-licensed intellectual property and the Merck patent infringement settlement. Pretax income generated from royalties was approximately $1.6 billion in 2020. Our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods.

Failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances and other portfolio actions could adversely impact our future results. In addition, any businesses or assets that we acquire in the future may underperform, we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our existing business and the occurrence of a number of unexpected factors could prevent or substantially delay the consummation of an anticipated acquisition, divestiture or merger.
We have acquired, or in-licensed, a number of other assets. Although we are committed to reducing our debt, we expect to continue to support our pipeline with compounds or products obtained through licensing and acquisitions. Future revenues, profits and cash flows of an acquired company’s products, technologies and pipeline candidates may not materialize due to low product uptake, delayed or missed pipeline opportunities, the inability to capture expected synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance, increased competition, safety concerns, regulatory issues, supply chain problems or other factors beyond our control. Substantial difficulties, costs and delays could result from integrating our acquisitions, including for (i) R&D, manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, promotion and information technology activities; (ii) policies, procedures, processes, controls and compliance; and (iii) tax considerations. Where we acquire debt or equity securities as all or part of the consideration for business development activities, such as in connection with a joint venture, the value of those securities will fluctuate and may depreciate in value. We may not control the company in which we acquire securities, such as in connection with a collaborative arrangement, and as a result, we will have limited ability to determine its management, operational decisions, internal controls and compliance and other policies, which can result in additional financial and reputational risks.

We may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets, and gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets may affect our earnings. Our divestitures also may result in continued financial exposure to the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, continued supply and

30

services arrangements, or potential litigation, following the transaction. Under these arrangements, nonperformance by us could result in obligations being imposed on us that could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition or reputation. In particular, we divested Otezla* in connection with obtaining regulatory approval for our acquisition of Celgene. If the FTC determines that we violated the consent order that we agreed to in connection with the divestiture, the FTC may seek a civil penalty and our reputation may be adversely affected.

We might incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our earnings. The value allocated to certain of our assets could be substantially impaired due to a number of factors beyond our control. New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense that may materially and adversely affect our financial results.

If the execution or implementation of acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions is not successful, it could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Moreover, due to the substantial amount of debt that we incurred to finance the cash portion of the Celgene and MyoKardia acquisitions, there can be no assurance of when we will be able to expand our business development capacity. Pursuing these opportunities may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, and could result in increased leverage and/or a downgrade of our credit ratings.

Failure to attract and retain highly qualified workforce could affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products.
Our success is largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management workforce, including people with expertise in clinical R&D, governmental regulation and commercialization, and in connection with our Celgene acquisition, integrate two unique corporate cultures and maintain employee morale. Competition for qualified talent in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain quality talent of both Bristol Myers Squibb and Celgene or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase.

Market, Liquidity and Credit Risks

Our significant additional indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the Celgene and MyoKardia acquisitions and our issuance of additional shares in connection with the Celgene acquisition could have negative consequences.
Our acquisitions of Celgene and MyoKardia increased the amount of our debt resulting in additional interest expense. Additional cash will be required for any dividends declared due to additional shares issued in connection with the Celgene acquisition. Both of these factors could reduce our financial flexibility to continue capital investments, develop new products and declare future dividends.

Adverse changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our profitability.
Global economic and political risks pose significant challenges to a company’s growth and profitability and are difficult to mitigate. We generated approximately 37% of our revenues outside of the U.S. in 2020. As such, our revenues, earnings and cash flow are exposed to risk from a strengthening U.S. dollar. We have exposure to customer credit risks in Europe, South America and other markets including from government-guaranteed hospital receivables in markets where payments are not received on time. We have significant operations in Europe, including for manufacturing and distribution. The results of our operations could be negatively impacted by any member country exiting the eurozone monetary union or EU. In particular, the exit of the UK from the EU, which occurred on January 31, 2020, has created uncertainties affecting our business operations in the UK and the EU and may have an impact on our research, commercial and general business operations in the UK and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products, and may require changes to our legal entity structure in the UK and the EU. While we are still assessing the details of the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement (which was formally approved by the U.K. House of Commons on December 30, 2020 and is expected to be formally approved by the EU legislature in March 2021) and related impact on our UK business and other operations, we currently do not believe that these matters and other related financial effects will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

In addition, there is currently uncertainty around the phase out of LIBOR. In July 2017, the United Kingdom regulator that regulates LIBOR announced its intention to phase out LIBOR rates by the end of 2021. However, the ICE Benchmark Administration, in its capacity as administrator of USD-LIBOR, has announced that it intends to extend publication of USD LIBOR (other than one-week and two-month tenors) by 18 months to June 2023. Notwithstanding this possible extension, a joint statement by key regulatory authorities calls on banks to cease entering into new contracts that use USD-LIBOR as a reference rate by no later than December 31, 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, has proposed replacing USD-LIBOR with a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements - the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"). At this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR, and it is impossible to predict whether and to what extent banks will

31

continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR and whether LIBOR rates will cease to be published or supported before or after 2021. We have issued variable rate debt based on LIBOR and have undertook interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. We have also entered into certain agreements and have amended certain other agreements to rely on SOFR as an alternative interest rate method to LIBOR and we cannot predict what the impact of these agreements and amendments and SOFR could have on us. Although SOFR appears to be the preferred replacement rate for USD LIBOR at this time, if the financial market coalesces around an alternative benchmark rate method to LIBOR that is different than SOFR, we may need to renegotiate these agreements and may be negatively impacted by the renegotiated terms, which may adversely affect our interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs that we cannot predict. In addition, the phase out or replacement of LIBOR could cause disruptions in the credit markets that leads to a downgrade of our current credit rating, which could increase our future borrowing costs and our cost of capital, impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us and adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources.

Finally, our business and operations may be adversely affected by political volatility, conflicts or crises in individual countries or regions, including terrorist activities or war.

There can be no guarantee that we will pay dividends or repurchase stock.
The declaration, amount and timing of any dividends fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors. The Board’s decision will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. A reduction or elimination of our dividend payments or dividend program could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, we could, at any time, decide not to buy back any more shares in the market, which could also adversely affect our stock price.

Our amended bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain lawsuits between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum that it finds favorable for such lawsuits and make it more costly for our stockholders to bring such lawsuits, which may have the effect of discouraging such lawsuits.
Our amended bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, creditors or other constituents, (iii) action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended bylaws or (iv) action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine; provided, however, that, in the event that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware lacks jurisdiction over any such action or proceeding, the sole and exclusive forum for such action or proceeding will be another state or federal court of the State of Delaware. Our bylaws also provide that any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and consented to this forum selection provision.

The Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, another state or federal court of the State of Delaware) will have the fullest authority allowed by law to issue an anti-suit injunction to enforce this forum selection clause and to preclude suit in any other forum. However, this forum selection provision is not intended to apply to any actions brought under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), as amended, or the Exchange Act. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder and Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, the forum selection provision in our amended bylaws will not relieve us of our duties to comply with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with these laws, rules and regulations.

Nevertheless, this forum selection provision in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers and other employees, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. In addition, stockholders who do bring a claim in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Delaware. While we believe the risk of a court declining to enforce the forum selection provision contained in our amended bylaws is low, if a court were to find the provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.

32

-------- --------------------------
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

None.

------- -----------
Item 2. PROPERTIES.

Our principal executive offices are located at 430 East 29th Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY. We own or lease manufacturing, R&D, administration, storage and distribution facilities at approximately 210 sites worldwide. We believe our manufacturing properties, in combination with our third-party manufacturers, are in good operating condition and provide adequate production capacity for our current and projected operations. We also believe that none of our properties is subject to any material encumbrance, easement or other restriction that would detract materially from its value or impair its use in the operation of the business. For further information about our manufacturing properties, refer to “Item 1. Business—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance.”

Our significant manufacturing and R&D locations by geographic area were as follows at December 31, 2020:

------------- ------------- --- --
 Manufacturing R&D
United States 5 11
Europe 2 1

Total 7 12

------- ------------------
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” and is incorporated by reference herein.

------- ------------------------
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.

Not applicable.

33

PART IA

Information about our Executive Officers

Listed below is information on our executive officers as of February 10, 2021. Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term, which continues until the first Board meeting following the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and thereafter, are elected for a one-year term or until their successors have been elected. Executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name and Current Position Age Employment History for the Past 5 Years
Giovanni Caforio, M.D.Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 56 2014 to 2015 – Chief Operating Officer and Director of the Company2015 to 2017 – Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company2017 to present – Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Boerner, Ph.D.Executive Vice President, Chief Commercialization OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 50 2014 to 2015 – Executive Vice President, Seattle Genetics2015 to 2017 – President and Head of U.S. Commercial2017 to 2018 – President and Head, International Markets2018 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer
Adam DubowSenior Vice President, Chief Compliance and Ethics OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 54 2013 to 2015 – Vice President and Assistant General Counsel, China, Japan and Intercon Region and EMAC Region2015 to 2018 – Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Research and Development2018 to present – Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer
Joseph E. Eid, M.D.Senior Vice President and Head of Global Medical AffairsMember of the Leadership Team 53 2014 to 2017 – Vice President, Head of Oncology Global Medical Affairs, Merck2017 to 2019 – Head of Global Medical2017 to present – Senior Vice President and Head of Global Medical Affairs
David V. ElkinsExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 52 2014 to 2017 – Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Consumer and Consumer Medicines, Johnson & Johnson2017 to 2018 – Worldwide Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Consumer Products, Medical Devices and Corporate Functions, Johnson & Johnson2018 to 2019 – Chief Financial Officer, Celgene2019 to present – Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Samit Hirawat, M.D.Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Drug DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 52 2012 to 2016 – Senior Vice President & Global Program Head, Novartis2017 to 2019 – Executive Vice President, Head of Oncology Development, Novartis2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Drug Development
Sandra Leung Executive Vice President, General CounselMember of the Leadership Team 60 2007 to 2014 – General Counsel and Corporate Secretary2014 to 2015 – Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary2015 to present – Executive Vice President, General Counsel
Elizabeth A. MilyExecutive Vice President, Strategy & Business DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 53 2010 to 2020 – Managing Director, Barclays Investment Bank2020 to present – Executive Vice President, Strategy & Business Development
Ann M. PowellExecutive Vice President, Chief Human Resources OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 55 2009 to 2013 – Chief Human Resources Officer, Shire Pharmaceuticals2013 to 2016 – Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources2016 to 2019 – Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Karen SantiagoSenior Vice President and Corporate Controller 50 2012 to 2015 – Vice President Finance, Global Manufacturing and Supply2015 to 2016 – Vice President Finance, U.S. Commercial and Global Capability Hub2016 to 2018 – Lead, Enabling Functions and Finance Transformation2018 to present – Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller
Louis S. SchmuklerExecutive Vice President and President, Global Product Development and SupplyMember of the Leadership Team 65 2011 to 2017 – President, Global Product Development and Supply2017 to 2019 – Senior Vice President and President, Global Product Development and Supply2019 to present – Executive Vice President and President, Global Product Development and Supply
Rupert Vessey, M.A., B.M., B.Ch., F.R.C.P., D.Phil.Executive Vice President, Research and Early DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 56 2015 to 2019 – President of Research and Early Development, Celgene2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Research and Early Development
Paul von AutenriedExecutive Vice President, Chief Information OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 59 2012 to 2016 – Senior Vice President, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer2016 to 2019 – Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer

34

PART II

------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol: BMY).

Holders of Common Stock

The number of record holders of our common stock at January 31, 2021 was 36,187.

The number of record holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered on our books at such date based on information provided by EQ Shareowner Services, our transfer agent, and does not include holders of shares in “street names” or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by depository trust companies.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Information required by this item will be contained in our 2021 Proxy Statement under the heading “Items to be Voted Upon—Item 2—Advisory Vote to Approve the Compensation of our Named Executive Officers-Equity Compensation Plan Information,” which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Performance Graph

The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholders’ returns of our common shares with the cumulative total stockholders’ returns of the companies listed in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a composite peer group of major pharmaceutical companies comprised of AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche and Sanofi. The graph assumes $100 investment on December 31, 2015 in each of our common shares, the S&P 500 Index and the stock of our peer group companies, including reinvestment of dividends, for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

-------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ----- ------ ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- ------ - ------ - ------
 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Bristol-Myers Squibb $ 100.00 $ 86.51 $ 93.18 $ 81.16 $ 103.67 $ 104.10
S&P 500 100.00 111.96 136.40 130.42 171.49 203.04
Peer Group 100.00 99.45 114.61 126.10 147.87 150.86

35

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

The following table summarizes the surrenders of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2020:

------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----- - -----
Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(a) Average Price Paid per Share(a) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(b) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs(b)
Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data
October 1 to 31, 2020 9,489,912 $ 59.95 8,901,702 $ 5,385
November 1 to 30, 2020 7,355,624 63.02 7,333,449 4,923
December 1 to 31, 2020 8,529,764 61.63 8,359,055 4,408
Three months ended December 31, 2020 25,375,300 24,594,206

(a)    Includes shares repurchased as part of publicly announced programs and shares of common stock surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of awards under our long-term incentive program.
(b)    In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of our common stock and in June 2012 increased its authorization for the repurchase of our common stock by an additional $3.0 billion. In October 2016, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of an additional $3.0 billion of our common stock and in November 2019 further increased its authorization for the repurchase of our common stock by approximately $7.0 billion. In February 2020, the Board of Directors approved an increase of $5.0 billion to the total outstanding share repurchase authorization. The remaining share repurchase capacity under the program was approximately $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2020. Refer to “Item 1. Financial Statements-Note 16. Equity” for information on the share repurchase program. In January 2021, the Board of Directors approved an increase of $2.0 billion to the share repurchase authorization for our common stock.

36

------- ------------------------
Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

The following table sets forth our selected historical consolidated financial information for each of the five periods indicated. This information should be read together with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this 2020 Form 10-K including disclosures related to the November 20, 2019 acquisition of Celgene.

The selected historical financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes.

Five Year Financial Summary

--------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------ ---- ------- ---- ------ ------ ---- ------ ------ ------ - ------
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Income Statement Data:
Total Revenues $ 42,518 $ 26,145 $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427

Net (Loss)/Earnings (8,995) 3,460 4,947 975 4,507
Net (Loss)/Earnings Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 20 21 27 (32) 50
BMS (9,015) 3,439 4,920 1,007 4,457

Net (Loss)/Earnings per Common Share Attributable to BMS:
Basic $ (3.99) $ 2.02 $ 3.01 $ 0.61 $ 2.67
Diluted (3.99) 2.01 3.01 0.61 2.65

Weighted average common shares outstanding:
Basic 2,258 1,705 1,633 1,645 1,671
Diluted 2,258 1,712 1,637 1,652 1,680

Cash dividends paid on BMS common and preferred stock $ 4,075 $ 2,679 $ 2,613 $ 2,577 $ 2,547

Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.84 $ 1.68 $ 1.61 $ 1.57 $ 1.53

Financial Position Data at December 31:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 14,546 $ 12,346 $ 6,911 $ 5,421 $ 4,237
Marketable debt securities(a)(b) 1,718 3,814 3,623 3,739 4,724

Total Assets 118,481 129,944 34,986 33,551 33,707
Long-term debt(a) 50,336 46,150 6,895 6,975 6,465
Equity 37,882 51,698 14,127 11,847 16,347

(a)Includes current and non-current portion.
(b)Prior period amounts were conformed to current period presentation.

37

------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this 2020 Form 10-K to enhance the understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The comparison of 2019 to 2018 results has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but can be referenced in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019—“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” filed on February 24, 2020.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. Refer to the Summary of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2020 Form 10-K for terms used throughout the document.

We completed the Celgene transaction on November 20, 2019. Our consolidated financial statements for 2020 include a full year of Celgene operations. On November 17, 2020, we completed our acquisition of MyoKardia for approximately $13.1 billion in cash. We expect that our acquisitions of Celgene and MyoKardia will further position us as a leading biopharmaceutical company, expanding our oncology, hematology, immunology and cardiovascular portfolios with several near-term assets and additional external partnerships. Refer to “—Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information.

The COVID-19 pandemic is resulting in significant risks and disruptions to the health and welfare of the global population and economy. Although the pandemic has not had a significant impact on our results of operations, it remains difficult to reasonably assess or predict the full extent of the negative impact that the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The impact will depend on future developments such as the ultimate duration and recovery from the pandemic, government actions, impact on the U.S. and global economies, customer behavior changes and timing for resumption to our normal operations, among others. Refer to “—Economic and Market Factors” for further information.

In 2020, we received 13 approvals for new medicines and additional indications and formulations of currently marketed medicines in major markets (the U.S., EU and Japan), including multiple regulatory milestone achievements for Opdivo and Opdivo+Yervoy combinations and have over 50 unique compounds in clinical development. We are investigating Opdivo alone and in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents for a wide array of tumor types. We continue to expand in the field of hematology, where we have the leading presence, through in-line assets Revlimid and Pomalyst. In 2020, we received regulatory approvals for Zeposia and Onureg and received EMA validation for liso-cel for the treatment of large B-cell lymphoma. Additionally, our pipeline shows significant added promise in hematology malignancies through our CELMoD agents (iberdomide and CC-92480), multiple modalities targeting B-Cell Maturation Antigen (“BCMA”) and the next generation of cell therapy agents. We are expanding our portfolio in immunology with a near term launch opportunity for deucravacitinib, our TYK2 inhibitor. Additionally in the cardiovascular space, Eliquis is a leading oral anti-coagulant drug, and we continue to experience growth in both the Eliquis brand and market while also advancing our Factor XIa inhibitor program. With the acquisition of MyoKardia, we bolstered our leading cardiovascular franchise and added exceptional scientific capabilities, mavacamten a potentially transformative new medicine with significant commercial potential and a promising pipeline of candidates.

In 2020, our revenues increased 63% as a result of the Celgene acquisition, which contributed $15.7 billion of revenues or 60% of the growth, and higher demand for Eliquis. The GAAP loss per share of $3.99 in 2020 as compared to the GAAP EPS of $2.01 in 2019 was primarily due to the IPRD charge resulting from the MyoKardia asset acquisition and charges relating to the Celgene acquisition including (i) amortization of acquired intangible assets, (ii) the unwinding of inventory fair value adjustments and (iii) tax charges resulting from an internal transfer of certain intangible assets and the Otezla* divestiture, partially offset by higher revenues and fair value adjustments to contingent value rights and equity investments. After adjusting for specified items, non-GAAP EPS increased $1.75 as result of the Celgene acquisition.

38

Highlights

The following table summarizes our financial information:

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ ---- ---- - ------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2020 2019
Total Revenues $ 42,518 $ 26,145

Diluted (Loss)/Earnings Per Share
GAAP $ (3.99) $ 2.01
Non-GAAP 6.44 4.69

Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude specified items that represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a detailed listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures refer to “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”

Economic and Market Factors

COVID-19

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect global healthcare systems as well as major economic and financial markets. Virtually all industries are facing challenges associated with the economic conditions resulting from efforts to address this pandemic. For example, many entities in certain industries have seen sharp declines in revenues due to regulatory and organizational mandates (e.g., “shelter in place” mandates, non-essential business and school closures) and voluntary changes in consumer behavior (e.g., “physical distancing”). Many entities continue to experience conditions often associated with a sudden and severe economic downturn. Such conditions may include financial market volatility, erosion of market value, deteriorating credit, liquidity concerns, further increases in government intervention, increasing unemployment, broad declines in consumer discretionary spending, increasing inventory levels, reductions in production because of decreased demand and supply constraints, layoffs and furloughs and other restructuring activities.

We continue to monitor the impact on our business resulting from wider restrictions in select states and non-U.S. countries. This is a dynamically changing environment and we continue to react to outbreaks throughout the world by re-enforcing our directives to keep our workforce safe in order to provide our patients with life-sustaining medicines. Continued escalating infection rates could negatively affect our planned recovery, pressuring demand from less patient visits and channel mix if unemployment data trends remain unfavorable.

We have not incurred and do not anticipate disruptions to the supply of our medicines for patients due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we are experiencing scarcity of certain raw materials and components as a result of the influx of COVID-19 vaccine orders receiving priority treatment from vendors. All of our internal manufacturing facilities and key contract manufacturers are operating with proper measures taken to help ensure employee safety. We have increased the number of our lab workers where it is safe to do so. We have implemented a number of measures to protect the health and safety of our workforce, including, where needed, a mandatory work-from-home policy for our global workforce who can perform their jobs from home as well as restrictions on business travel, and workplace and in-person meetings. Depending on local conditions, field-based personnel began in-person customer interactions in healthcare settings where it is safe to do so and approved by the government. The remote engagement model has continued to support healthcare professionals, patient care and access to our medicines. Although certain field-based sales teams have begun in person engagement in selected states and non-U.S. regions, the majority of interactions remain remote.

The situation remains dynamic and challenging to assess the potential impact on our operations such as the ability and willingness of patients to access treatment centers or obtain a prescription and changes in prescribing patterns that may potentially affect our operations in the long-term. Certain changes in buying patterns have occurred, including payers implementing policies to encourage larger prescription sizes and earlier refills to help patients avoid trips to the pharmacy. However, fewer patient office visits are resulting in lower than previously expected new patient starts. Although it is difficult to estimate the impact of these factors, we do not believe that they had a significant impact on our revenues during 2020.

The timing of specific product launches depends on the relevant facts and circumstances for each situation. For example, we delayed the commercialization of Zeposia in the U.S. based on the best health interest of our patients, customers and workforce. In contrast, Reblozyl was available for MDS patients following its approval for this additional indication in April 2020 and Onureg was available for patients with AML in September 2020. Our expanded U.S. patient assistance programs provided certain covered BMS medicines free to eligible patients that lost employment and health insurance due to COVID-19. It is uncertain what the aggregate impact of the above factors and potential changes in channel mix will have on our revenues and expenses during 2021.

39

We restarted clinical development activities after pausing the opening of additional sites during the first months of the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we experienced a slight slowdown of our clinical studies again in the fourth quarter. In addition, certain delays have occurred due to slower enrollment. Patient enrollment for certain new clinical studies and ongoing studies at new sites are carefully being started when the safety of study participants, our employees and staff at clinical trial sites, regulatory compliance and scientific integrity of trial data can be assured. We expect many new studies to start through the first quarter of 2021 following the completion of feasibility assessments, rigorous planning and selected protocol simplifications. Previously suspended research and early development activities performed in laboratories recommenced in all major sites in the U.S. although close monitoring of the situation continues.

The COVID-19 pandemic has increased the volatility of the financial markets, foreign currency exchanges and interest rates. Although we incurred downward adjustments to our equity investment fair values in the first quarter of 2020, the fair values have subsequently recovered. Lower interest rates and changes of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies have not had a material impact to our operations. The carrying value of our intangible assets was approximately $53 billion at December 31, 2020. Significant charges might occur in future periods due to a decline in previously expected cash flows as a direct or indirect result of the pandemic. This may occur due to delays in the enrollment or timely completion of clinical programs, FDA site inspections and other interactions with regulatory bodies in general, regulatory approvals, launches of newly approved products or lower demand in general. See risk factor on the Company’s risk factors resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic included under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting our business and could have a material adverse effect on us.”

Governmental Actions

Additional regulations in the U.S. may occur in the future, including healthcare reform initiatives, further changes to tax laws and pricing laws and potential importation restrictions, that may reduce our results of operations, operating cash flow, liquidity and financial flexibility. For example, in November 2020 the U.S. federal government issued regulations regarding U.S. drug prices and payment for pharmaceutical products, including regulations that: (1) would reduce physician reimbursement for certain Medicare Part B drugs administered in doctors’ offices or hospitals to a “most favored nation price” drawn from the lowest price paid by certain countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which would apply to many cancer medications; (2) would authorize states and private parties to develop and implement programs to import certain prescription drugs from Canada and sell them in the U.S.; and (3) would reform the use of rebates in Medicare Part D. The outcome of these regulations remains uncertain as a result of ongoing litigation and other factors. See risk factor on the Company’s risk factors on the executive orders included under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad continue to negatively affect our revenues and profit margins.”

We continue to monitor the potential impact of the economic conditions in certain European and other countries and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts and creditworthiness of our customers. We believe these economic conditions will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility.

The UK departed from the EU on January 31, 2020. The departure began a transition period that ended on December 31, 2020 with a signature of a Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the UK and the EU. Similar to other companies in our industry, certain regulatory, trade, labor and other aspects of our business have been affected during the transition period and will over time. These matters and other related financial effects did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our sales in the UK represent less than 3% of our total revenues. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Adverse changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our profitability” for more information on the impact on the Company of the exit of the UK from the EU.

40

Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2020:

------- ---- --------
Product Date Approval

------ ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo November 2020 EC approval of Opdivo for the treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy.

------------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy November 2020 EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy with two cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors have no sensitizing epidermal growth factor receptor mutation or anaplastic lymphoma kinase translocation.

------------- ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy October 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable MPM.

------ -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Onureg September 2020 FDA approval of Onureg (azacitidine) for the continued treatment of adult patients with AML who achieved first complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following intensive induction chemotherapy and who are not able to complete intensive curative therapy.

-------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reblozyl June 2020 EC approval of Reblozyl for the treatment of adult patients with transfusion-dependent anemia due to very low-, low- and intermediate-risk MDS with ring sideroblasts, who had an unsatisfactory response or are ineligible for erythropoietin-based therapy, or beta thalassemia.

------ --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo June 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy.

------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia May 2020 EC approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adult patients with RRMS with active disease as defined by clinical or imaging features.

------------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy May 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy given with two cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or recurrent NSCLC with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations. The therapy is approved for patients with squamous or non-squamous disease and regardless of PD-L1 expression.

------------- -------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy May 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 (≥1%) with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations.

-------- -------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pomalyst May 2020 FDA approval of Pomalyst for patients with AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma whose disease has become resistant to highly active antiretroviral therapy, or in patients with Kaposi sarcoma who are HIV-negative.

-------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reblozyl April 2020 FDA approval of Reblozyl for the treatment of anemia failing an erythropoiesis stimulating agent in adult patients with very low- to intermediate-risk MDS who have ring sideroblasts and require RBC transfusions.

------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia March 2020 FDA approval of Zeposia (ozanimod) for the treatment of adults with RMS, including clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease.

------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy March 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy combination for the treatment of HCC in patients who have been previously treated with sorafenib.

The FDA has indicated it is undertaking an industry-wide review of indications that received accelerated approval and for which the confirmatory studies did not meet their primary endpoints. This is not specific to BMS, but we have two Opdivo indications that are subject to this review by the FDA in the third-line treatment of SCLC and second-line treatment of HCC. On December 29, 2020, in consultation with the FDA, we made the decision to withdraw the Opdivo indication in the third-line treatment of SCLC from the U.S. market. The second-line treatment of HCC is being reviewed by the FDA.

41

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2021:
•In January 2021, the FDA approved the use of Opdivo in combination with Cabometyx* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC.
•In February 2021, the FDA approved Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel; liso-cel) for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy.
•In February 2021, the EC approved Inrebic for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis, who are Janus Associated Kinase inhibitor naïve or have been treated with ruxolitinib.

Refer to “—Product and Pipeline Developments” for all of the developments in our marketed products and late-stage pipeline in 2020 and in early 2021.

Strategy

Our principal strategy is to combine the resources, scale and capability of a pharmaceutical company with the speed and focus on innovation of the biotech industry. Our focus as a biopharmaceutical company is on discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines for patients facing serious diseases in areas where we believe that we have an opportunity to make a meaningful difference: oncology (both solid tumors and hematology), immunology, cardiovascular and fibrosis. Our four strategic priorities are to drive enterprise performance, maximize the value of our commercial portfolio, ensure the long-term sustainability of our pipeline through combined internal and external innovation and establish our new culture and embed our people strategy.

We are developing new medicines in the following core therapeutic areas: (i) oncology with a priority in certain tumor types; (ii) hematology with opportunities to broaden our franchise and potentially sustain a leadership position in multiple myeloma; (iii) immunology with priorities in relapsing multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, lupus, RA and inflammatory bowel disease; (iv) cardiovascular disease and; (v) fibrotic disease with priorities in lung and liver. We continue to advance the next wave of innovative medicines by investing significantly in our pipeline both internally and through business development activities. We have expanded our oncology, hematology and immunology portfolios with several near-term assets and additional external partnerships. We have invested in our oncology portfolio by pursuing both monotherapy and combination approaches and advancing our next wave of early assets and to explore new collaboration opportunities across our therapeutic areas of focus. We remain focused and well-resourced in our cancer development programs and seek to broaden the use of Opdivo in earlier lines of therapy, expand into new tumors, accelerate next wave oncology mechanisms and develop treatment options for refractory oncology patients. For hematology, we have opportunities to launch several new medicines in the near-term with additional pipeline opportunities in the longer term. There is a broad effort to continue to address the unmet medical need in multiple myeloma and we are working across multiple modalities and mechanisms of action such as cereblon modulator (“CELMoD”), T-cell Engager and CAR T-cell therapy. Beyond cancer, we continue to advance our early stage portfolio in immunology, cardiovascular and fibrotic diseases and strengthen our partnerships with a diverse group of companies and academic institutions in new and expanded research activities. We believe our differentiated internal and external focus contributes to the advancing of our pipeline of potentially transformational medicines.

Our commercial model has been successful with revenues from our prioritized brands continuing to grow, which demonstrates strong execution of our strategy. We continue to drive adoption of Opdivo by expanding into additional indications and tumor types both as a monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents. Eliquis continues to grow, leveraging its best in class clinical profile and extensive real world data and is now the number one novel oral anticoagulant in total prescriptions globally. Revlimid and Pomalyst have transformed the treatment of multiple myeloma, where we have a leading presence, and we continue to seek opportunities to leverage the significant medical and commercial expertise to address areas of high unmet medical need. We are building on the continued success of our other prioritized brands and remain strongly committed to Orencia and Sprycel. We are also optimistic on the future growth and near-term opportunities of Reblozyl, a first-in-class medicine, Inrebic, Zeposia and Onureg. Through our operating model transformation, our commercial infrastructure is leveraged for potential growth.

Our operating model continues to evolve and we have been successful in focusing commercial, R&D and manufacturing resources on prioritized brands and markets, strengthening our R&D capabilities in tumor biology, patient selection and new biomarkers, delivering leaner administrative functions and streamlining our manufacturing network to reflect the importance of biologics in our current and future portfolio. The evolution in our operating model, which focuses on maintaining a disciplined approach in marketing, selling and administrative expenses, will enable us to deliver the necessary strategic, financial and operational flexibility to invest in the highest priority opportunities within our portfolio. We will continue to make progress towards integrating the companies on the commercial and research and development area. Through our Celgene acquisition restructuring activities, we expect to realize $3.0 billion of synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance through 2022 and our integration efforts across general and administrative, manufacturing, R&D, procurement and streamlining the Company's pricing and information technology infrastructure.

42

Looking ahead, we will continue to implement our biopharma strategy by driving the growth of prioritized brands, executing product launches, investing in our diverse and innovative pipeline, aided by strategic business development, focusing on prioritized markets, increasing investments in our biologics manufacturing capabilities and maintaining a culture of continuous improvement.

Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements

Significant acquisitions, divestitures, licensing and other arrangements during 2020 are summarized below. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data —Note 3. Alliances” and “—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information.

MyoKardia - We acquired MyoKardia, a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company pioneering a precision medicine approach to discover, develop and commercialize targeted therapies for the treatment of serious cardiovascular diseases. The acquisition provides us with rights to MyoKardia’s lead asset, mavacamten, a potential first-in-class cardiovascular medicine for the treatment of obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy that has completed Phase III development with an anticipated NDA submission in the first quarter of 2021.

Dragonfly - We obtained a global exclusive license to Dragonfly’s interleukin-12 (IL-12) investigational immunotherapy program, including its extended half-life cytokine DF6002.

Forbius - We acquired Forbius, a privately held, clinical-stage protein engineering company that designs and develops biotherapeutics for the treatment of cancer and fibrotic diseases. The acquisition provides us with full rights to Forbius’s TGF-beta program, including the program’s lead investigational asset, AVID200, which is in Phase I development.

43

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Regional Revenues

The composition of the changes in revenues was as follows:

------------------- ----------------------- ------------- ---- ----- -------- ------ ------------------- - -- --- - -
 Year Ended December 31, 2020 vs. 2019
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019 % Change Foreign Exchange(b)
United States $ 26,577 $ 15,342 73 % —
Europe 9,853 6,266 57 % 1 %
Rest of the World 5,457 4,013 36 % (2) %
Other(a) 631 524 20 % —
Total $ 42,518 $ 26,145 63 % —

(a)    Other revenues include royalties and alliance-related revenues for products not sold by our regional commercial organizations.
(b)    Foreign exchange impacts were derived by applying the prior period average currency rates to the current period revenues.

United States

•U.S. revenues in 2020 were impacted by an increase from Revlimid, Pomalyst/Imnovid and other Celgene products of $10.7 billion, which contributed 69% of the growth, and higher demand for Eliquis, partially offset by lower demand for Opdivo. Average net selling prices increased by 1% in 2020.

Europe

•Europe revenues in 2020 were impacted by an increase in Celgene products of $3.3 billion, which contributed 52% of the growth and higher demand for Eliquis and Opdivo, partially offset by lower demand for established brands. Average net selling prices were lower in 2020.

Rest of the World

•Rest of the World revenues in 2020 were impacted by an increase in Celgene products of $1.7 billion, which contributed approximately 43% of the growth, and higher demand for Eliquis, partially offset by lower demand for established brands. Average net selling prices were lower in 2020.

No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of total revenues in 2020 and 2019. Our business is typically not seasonal.

GTN Adjustments

We recognize revenue net of GTN adjustments that are further described in “—Critical Accounting Policies.”

The activities and ending reserve balances for each significant category of GTN adjustments were as follows:

-------------------------------------- ------------------------------- --- ----------------------------- ------- ------------------------------------------------- ----- ------- - -------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31, 2020
Dollars in Millions Charge-Backs and Cash Discounts Medicaid and Medicare Rebates Other Rebates, Returns, Discounts and Adjustments Total
Balance at January 1, 2020 $ 391 $ 1,859 $ 2,416 $ 4,666
Provision related to sales made in:
Current period 5,824 7,687 5,290 18,801
Prior period 3 (92) (17) (106)
Payments and returns (5,586) (6,859) (4,820) (17,265)
Foreign currency translation and other 13 — 224 237
Balance at December 31, 2020 $ 645 $ 2,595 $ 3,093 $ 6,333

44

The reconciliation of gross product sales to net product sales by each significant category of GTN adjustments was as follows:

------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ -------- -------- - ------ ------------- --- - -- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019 2020 vs. 2019
Gross product sales $ 60,016 $ 37,206 61 %
GTN Adjustments
Charge-backs and cash discounts (5,827) (3,675) 59 %
Medicaid and Medicare rebates (7,595) (4,941) 54 %
Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments (5,273) (3,416) 54 %
Total GTN Adjustments (18,695) (12,032) 55 %
Net product sales $ 41,321 $ 25,174 64 %

GTN adjustments percentage 31 % 32 % (1) %
U.S. 37 % 40 % (3) %
Non-U.S. 16 % 15 % 1 %

Reductions to provisions for product sales made in prior periods resulting from changes in estimates were $106 million and $132 million for 2020 and 2019, respectively. GTN adjustments are primarily a function of product sales volume, regional and payer channel mix, contractual or legislative discounts and rebates. U.S. GTN adjustments percentage decreased primarily due to the addition of Celgene hematology brands, which have lower GTN adjustment percentages, partially offset by higher U.S. Eliquis gross product sales, which have higher U.S. GTN adjustment percentages.

45

Product Revenues

------------------- ----------------------- ------ -------- ----- ------------- ----- --- - --
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019 2020 vs. 2019
Prioritized Brands
Revlimid $ 12,106 $ 1,299 **
U.S. 8,291 899 **
Non-U.S. 3,815 400 **

Eliquis 9,168 7,929 16 %
U.S. 5,485 4,755 15 %
Non-U.S. 3,683 3,174 16 %

Opdivo 6,992 7,204 (3) %
U.S. 3,945 4,344 (9) %
Non-U.S. 3,047 2,860 7 %

Orencia 3,157 2,977 6 %
U.S. 2,268 2,146 6 %
Non-U.S. 889 831 7 %

Pomalyst/Imnovid 3,070 322 **
U.S. 2,136 226 **
Non-U.S. 934 96 **

Sprycel 2,140 2,110 1 %
U.S. 1,295 1,191 9 %
Non-U.S. 845 919 (8) %

Yervoy 1,682 1,489 13 %
U.S. 1,124 1,004 12 %
Non-U.S. 558 485 15 %

Abraxane 1,247 166 **
U.S. 873 122 **
Non-U.S. 374 44 **

Empliciti 381 357 7 %
U.S. 230 246 (7) %
Non-U.S. 151 111 36 %

Reblozyl 274 — N/A
U.S. 259 — N/A
Non-U.S. 15 — N/A

Inrebic 55 5 **
U.S. 55 5 **
Non-U.S. — — N/A

Onureg 17 — N/A
U.S. 17 — N/A
Non-U.S. — — N/A

Zeposia 12 — N/A
U.S. 10 — N/A
Non-U.S. 2 — N/A

46

------------------- ----------------------- --- -------- ------ ------------- -- ---- - --
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019 2020 vs. 2019
Established Brands
Vidaza $ 455 $ 58 **
U.S. 2 1 100 %
Non-U.S. 453 57 **

Baraclude 447 555 (19) %
U.S. 12 20 (40) %
Non-U.S. 435 535 (19) %

Other Brands(a) 1,315 1,674 (21) %
U.S. 575 383 50 %
Non-U.S. 740 1,291 (43) %

Total Revenues 42,518 26,145 63 %
U.S. 26,577 15,342 73 %
Non-U.S. 15,941 10,803 48 %

** Change in excess of 100%.
(a)    Includes BMS and Celgene products in 2019.

Revlimid (lenalidomide) — an oral immunomodulatory drug that in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma. Revlimid as a single agent is also indicated as a maintenance therapy in patients with multiple myeloma following autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant.

•U.S. and International revenues increased due to the inclusion of a full year of Celgene product revenues in 2020.

Eliquis (apixaban) — an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, indicated for the reduction in risk of stroke/systemic embolism in NVAF and for the treatment of DVT/PE and reduction in risk of recurrence following initial therapy.

•U.S. revenues increased 15% in 2020 due to higher demand, partially offset by lower average net selling prices of approximately 10%. The lower average net selling price is primarily due to unfavorable channel mix, increase in the Medicare Part D coverage gap per patient in 2020, and to a lesser extent, higher contractual rebates.

•International revenues increased 16% in 2020 due to higher demand, partially offset by lower average net selling prices.

Opdivo (nivolumab) — a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 on T and NKT cells that has been approved for several anti-cancer indications including bladder, blood, colon, head and neck, kidney, liver, lung, melanoma and stomach. The Opdivo+Yervoy regimen also is approved in multiple markets for the treatment of NSCLC, melanoma, RCC, and CRC. There are several ongoing potentially registrational studies for Opdivo across other tumor types and disease areas, in monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy and various anti-cancer agents.

•U.S. revenues decreased 9% in 2020 due to lower demand caused by declining second-line eligibility across tumor indications, increased competition for adjuvant melanoma and lower demand from COVID-19 (primarily lower new patient starts and patient visits), partially offset by higher demand due to the launch of the Opdivo+Yervoy combination for NSCLC and continued growth from RCC indication.

•International revenues increased 7% in 2020 due to higher demand as a result of additional indication launches in new countries.

Orencia (abatacept) — a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderately to severely active RA and PsA and is also indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in certain pediatric patients with moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA.

•U.S. revenues increased 6% in 2020 due to higher demand.

•International revenues increased 7% in 2020 due to higher demand.

47

Pomalyst/Imnovid (pomalidomide) — a proprietary, distinct, small molecule that is administered orally and modulates the immune system and other biologically important targets. Pomalyst/Imnovid is indicated for patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy.

•U.S. and International revenues increased due to the inclusion of a full year of Celgene product revenues in 2020.

Sprycel (dasatinib) — an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinase indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML in chronic phase and the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including Gleevec* (imatinib mesylate) and the treatment of children and adolescents aged 1 year to 18 years with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML.

•U.S. revenues increased 9% in 2020 due to higher demand and higher average net selling prices.

•International revenues decreased 8% in 2020 due to lower demand as a result of increased generic competition.

Yervoy (ipilimumab) — a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma.

•U.S. revenues increased 12% in 2020 due to the launch of the Opdivo+Yervoy combination for NSCLC.

•International revenues increased 15% in 2020 due to higher demand as a result of approvals for additional indications and launches primarily in Europe, partially offset by lower average net selling prices.

Abraxane (paclitaxel albumin-bound particles for injectable suspension) — a solvent-free protein-bound chemotherapy product that combines paclitaxel with albumin using our proprietary Nab® technology platform, and is used to treat breast cancer, NSCLC and pancreatic cancer, among others.

•U.S. and International revenues increased due to the inclusion of a full year of Celgene product revenues in 2020.

Reblozyl (luspatercept-aamt) — an erythroid maturation agent indicated for the treatment of anemia in adult patients with beta thalassemia who require regular red blood cell transfusions. In November 2019, the FDA approved Reblozyl for the treatment of anemia in adult patients with beta thalassemia who require RBC transfusions and in April 2020, the FDA approved Reblozyl for the treatment of anemia failing an erythropoiesis stimulating agent in adult patients with very low- to intermediate-risk MDS who have ring sideroblasts and require RBC transfusions. Reblozyl was launched in April 2020.

Inrebic (fedratinib) — an oral kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with intermediate-2 or high-risk primary or secondary (post-polycythemia vera or post-essential thrombocythemia) myelofibrosis.

Onureg (azacitidine) — is an oral hypomethylating agent that incorporates into DNA and RNA, indicated for continued treatment of adult patients with AML who achieved first complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following intensive induction chemotherapy and are not able to complete intensive curative therapy. Onureg was launched in September 2020.

Zeposia (ozanimod) — an oral immunomodulatory drug used to treat relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. Zeposia was launched in June 2020.

Vidaza (azacitidine for injection) — is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog that has been shown to reverse the effects of deoxyribonucleic acid hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re-expression and is indicated for treatment of patients with the following myelodysplastic syndrome subtypes: refractory anemia or refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts (if accompanied by neutropenia or thrombocytopenia or requiring transfusions), refractory anemia with excess blasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation, and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL).

•International revenues increased due to the inclusion of a full year of Celgene product revenues in 2020.

Baraclude (entecavir) — an oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.

•International revenues decreased 19% in 2020 due to lower demand and average net selling prices resulting from generic competition.

48

Other Brands — includes all other brands, including those which have lost exclusivity in major markets, OTC brands and royalty revenue.

•U.S. revenues include $295 million and $27 million from Celgene products in the 2020 and 2019, respectively.

•International revenues decreased primarily due to divestiture of the UPSA business in 2019 and certain other brands and continued generic erosion.

Estimated End-User Demand

Pursuant to the SEC Consent Order described under “—SEC Consent Order”, we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. Estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand for the following products were not material to our results of operations as of the dates indicated.

Onureg had 1.5 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2020 in the U.S. to support the product launch. The inventory is expected to be worked down as demand increases post launch.

Zeposia had 2.2 months of inventory on hand internationally in the distribution channel at September 30, 2020 to support the product launch in Germany. The inventory is expected to be worked down as demand increases post launch.

In the U.S., we generally determine our months on hand estimates using inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out-movement provided by our three largest wholesalers, which account for approximately 75% of total gross sales of U.S. products for the year ended December 31, 2020. Factors that may influence our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, these estimates are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.

Revlimid and Pomalyst are distributed in the U.S. primarily through contracted pharmacies under the Revlimid REMS and Pomalyst REMS programs, respectively. These are proprietary risk-management distribution programs tailored specifically to provide for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of Revlimid and Pomalyst. Internationally, Revlimid and Imnovid are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored to meet local authorities’ specifications to provide for the products’ safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk-management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies.

Our non-U.S. businesses have significantly more direct customers. Information on available direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information varies widely. We limit our direct customer sales channel inventory reporting to where we can influence demand. When this information does not exist or is otherwise not available, we have developed a variety of methodologies to estimate such data, including using historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Given the difficulties inherent in estimating third-party demand information, we evaluate our methodologies to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand on an ongoing basis and make changes as necessary. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. As such, all of the information required to estimate months on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. business for the year ended December 31, 2020 is not available prior to the filing of this 2020 Form 10-K. We will disclose any product with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception, in the next quarterly report on Form 10-Q.

49

Expenses

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ -------- ----- ------------ ------ --- - -- -
 Year Ended December 31, % Change
Dollar in Millions 2020 2019 2020 vs 2019
Cost of products sold(a) $ 11,773 $ 8,078 46 %
Marketing, selling and administrative 7,661 4,871 57 %
Research and development 11,143 6,148 81 %
IPRD charge - MyoKardia acquisition 11,438 — N/A
Amortization of acquired intangible assets 9,688 1,135 **
Other (income)/expense, net (2,314) 938 **
Total Expenses $ 49,389 $ 21,170 **

**    In excess of +/- 100%.
(a)    Excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets.

Cost of products sold

Cost of products sold include material, internal labor and overhead costs from our owned manufacturing sites, third-party product supply costs and other supply chain costs managed by our global manufacturing and supply organization. Cost of products sold also includes royalties and profit sharing, certain excise taxes, foreign currency hedge settlement gains and losses and impairment charges. Cost of products sold typically vary between periods as a result of product mix and volume (particularly royalties and profit sharing), and to a lesser extent changes in foreign currency, price, inflation, costs attributed to manufacturing site exits and impairment charges. Cost of products sold excludes amortization from acquired intangible assets.

•Cost of products sold increased by $3.7 billion in 2020, primarily due to unwinding of inventory fair value adjustments ($2.0 billion), higher royalties and Eliquis profit sharing ($650 million), higher Celgene product costs (approximately $600 million) and an impairment charge related to Inrebic marketed product rights ($575 million).

Marketing, selling and administrative

Marketing, selling and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees, outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs, advertising and product promotion costs. Expenses are managed through regional commercialization organizations or global enabling functions such as finance, legal, information technology and human resources. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements.

•Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased by $2.8 billion in 2020, primarily due to costs associated with the broader portfolio resulting from the Celgene acquisition (approximately $2.0 billion), higher advertising and promotion expenses and a cash settlement of MyoKardia unvested stock awards ($241 million).

Research and development

Research and development activities include discovery research, preclinical and clinical development, drug formulation and medical support of marketed products. Expenses include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research organizations, supplies, upfront and contingent milestone payments for licensing and asset acquisitions of investigational compounds, IPRD impairment charges and proportionate allocations of enterprise-wide costs. The allocations include facilities, information technology, employee stock compensation costs and other appropriate costs. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements. Expenses typically vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of license and asset acquisition charges and IPRD impairment charges.

•Research and development expense increased by $5.0 billion in 2020, primarily due to costs associated with the broader portfolio resulting from the Celgene acquisition (approximately $3.3 billion, excluding bluebird and Dragonfly charges), license and asset acquisition charges of $1.0 billion relating to Dragonfly, bluebird, Forbius, Cormorant and Nektar, an IPRD impairment charge resulting from the decision to discontinue further development of the orva-cel program ($470 million) and a cash settlement of MyoKardia unvested stock awards ($241 million).

50

IPRD charge - MyoKardia acquisition

IPRD charges represents the costs of IPRD assets acquired in a transaction other than a business combination.

•The MyoKardia acquisition was accounted for as an asset acquisition because substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (excluding cash and deferred taxes) was allocated to a single asset, mavacamten. The IPRD charge related to the MyoKardia transaction is presented separately due to the significance of the charge.

Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets

Amortization of intangible assets acquired as a result of business combinations.

•Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $8.6 billion in 2020 due to a full year amortization of Revlimid, Pomalyst/Imnovid and other marketed product rights obtained in the Celgene acquisition.

Other (income)/expense, net

•Other (income)/expense, net changed by $3.3 billion in 2020, primarily due to fair value adjustments to contingent value rights and equity investments in 2020 and other items discussed below.

Components of Other (income)/expense, net were as follows:

--------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ---- ------- - ---
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019
Interest expense $ 1,420 $ 656
Contingent consideration (1,757) 523
Royalties and licensing income (1,527) (1,360)
Equity investment gains (1,228) (275)
Integration expenses 717 415
Provision for restructuring 530 301
Litigation and other settlements (194) 77
Transition and other service fees (149) (37)
Investment income (121) (464)
Reversion excise tax 76 —
Divestiture gains (55) (1,168)
Intangible asset impairment 21 15
Pension and postretirement (13) 1,599
Acquisition expenses — 657
Other (34) (1)
Other (income)/expense, net $ (2,314) $ 938

51

•Interest expense increased due to $19.0 billion of notes issued in May 2019 and $19.9 billion of Celgene debt assumed in the acquisition.
•Contingent consideration primarily includes fair value adjustments resulting from the change in the traded price of contingent value rights issued with the Celgene acquisition. The contractual obligation to pay the contingent value rights terminated in January 2021 because the FDA did not approve liso-cel (JCAR017) by December 31, 2020.
•Royalties and licensing income includes diabetes business royalties, Keytruda* and Tecentriq* royalties, and up-front and milestone licensing fees for products that have not obtained commercial approval. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information.
•Equity investment gains includes fair value adjustments on equity investments that have readily determinable fair value and other observable price changes on equity investments without readily determinable fair values. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” for more information. Our share of income from equity method investments was $72 million in 2020. A termination fee related to our Europe and Asia partnership with Sanofi of $80 million was included in 2019.
•Integration expenses include consulting fees incurred primarily in connection with Celgene integration activities.
•Provision for restructuring includes exit and other costs primarily related to the Celgene acquisition plans. We have achieved approximately $1.4 billion of annualized pre-tax cost savings in 2020 related to the Celgene Acquisition Plan and are on track to achieve the annualized pre-tax cost savings of approximately $3.0 billion through 2022 as detailed in the restructuring activities. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Restructuring” for further information.
•Transition and other service fees primarily includes Otezla* divestiture related fees in 2020.
•Investment income includes $197 million of interest income earned on the net proceeds of the notes issued in May 2019 to fund a portion of the Celgene acquisition in 2019.
•Reversion excise tax resulted from the transfer of the retiree medical plan assets back to the Company. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 17. Retirement Benefits” for further information.
•Divestiture gains includes a $1.2 billion gain on sale of the UPSA business in 2019.
•Pension and postretirement includes a special termination benefits charge of $1.5 billion in 2019 relating to the termination of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan.
•Acquisition expenses include the following items related to the Celgene transaction in 2019: (1) upfront bridge facility commitment fee, (2) acquisition financing hedge losses and (3) financial advisory, legal, proxy filing and other regulatory fees.

Income Taxes

-------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ---- ------ - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019
(Loss)/Earnings Before Income Taxes $ (6,871) $ 4,975
Provision for Income Taxes 2,124 1,515
Effective Tax Rate (30.9) % 30.5 %

Impact of Specified Items 46.5 % (15.7) %
Effective Tax Rate Excluding Specified Items 15.6 % 14.8 %

The tax impact attributed to specified items was primarily due to the unwinding of inventory fair value adjustments and intangible asset amortization resulting from the Celgene acquisition, a non-deductible MyoKardia IPRD charge and non-taxable fair value adjustments to contingent value rights in the current year. In addition, a $853 million deferred tax charge resulting from an internal transfer of certain intangible assets and an additional $266 million GILTI tax charge upon finalization of the Otezla* divestiture tax consequences with tax authorities were included in 2020. The tax impact attributed to specified items including the Otezla* divestiture, pension settlement charges, gain on sale of the UPSA business divestiture and other specified items increased the effective tax rate in the prior year. The effective tax rate excluding specified items includes a tax reserve release due to lapse of statue of $81 million in 2019. Other favorable discrete tax adjustments were approximately $140 million in 2020 and $170 million in 2019 primarily resulting from finalization of prior year tax returns and the impact of the Swiss tax reform (2019 only). Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7. Income Taxes” for further information.

52

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items that are evaluated on an individual basis. These items are adjusted after considering their quantitative and qualitative aspects and typically have one or more of the following characteristics, such as being highly variable, difficult to project, unusual in nature, significant to the results of a particular period or not indicative of future operating results. Similar charges or gains were recognized in prior periods and will likely reoccur in future periods including (i) amortization of acquired intangible assets beginning in the fourth quarter of 2019, including product rights that generate a significant portion of our ongoing revenue and will recur until the intangible assets are fully amortized, (ii) unwind of inventory fair value adjustments, (iii) acquisition and integration expenses, (iv) restructuring costs, (v) accelerated depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, (vi) R&D charges or other income resulting from upfront or contingent milestone payments in connection with the acquisition or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights, (vii) costs of acquiring a priority review voucher, (viii) IPRD charge resulting from the MyoKardia acquisition, (ix) divestiture gains or losses, (x) stock compensation resulting from accelerated vesting of Celgene awards and certain retention-related employee compensation charges related to the Celgene transaction, (xi) pension, legal and other contractual settlement charges, (xii) interest expense on the notes issued in May 2019 incurred prior to our Celgene transaction and interest income earned on the net proceeds of those notes, (xiii) equity investment and contingent value rights fair value adjustments and (xiv) amortization of fair value adjustments of debt acquired from Celgene in our 2019 exchange offer, among other items. Deferred and current income taxes attributed to these items are also adjusted for considering their individual impact to the overall tax expense, deductibility and jurisdictional tax rates. Certain other significant tax items are also excluded such as the impact resulting from internal transfer of intangible assets and the Otezla* divestiture. We also provide international revenues for our priority products excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K filed on February 4, 2021 and are incorporated herein by reference.

Non-GAAP information is intended to portray the results of our baseline performance, supplement or enhance management, analysts and investors’ overall understanding of our underlying financial performance and facilitate comparisons among current, past and future periods. For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators that we use as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets and planning and forecasting for future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be the same as or comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies due to possible differences in method and in the items being adjusted. We encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.

53

Specified items were as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- ------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019
Inventory purchase price accounting adjustments $ 2,688 $ 660
Intangible asset impairment 575 —
Employee compensation charges 4 1
Site exit and other costs 33 197
Cost of products sold 3,300 858

Employee compensation charges 275 27
Site exit and other costs 4 9
Marketing, selling and administrative 279 36

License and asset acquisition charges 1,003 25
IPRD impairments 470 32
Inventory purchase price accounting adjustments 36 —
Employee compensation charges 282 33
Site exit and other costs 115 167
Research and development 1,906 257

IPRD charge - MyoKardia acquisition 11,438 —

Amortization of acquired intangible assets 9,688 1,062

Interest expense(a) (159) 322
Contingent consideration (1,757) 523
Royalties and licensing income (168) (24)
Equity investment gains (1,156) (279)
Integration expenses 717 415
Provision for restructuring 530 301
Litigation and other settlements (239) 75
Investment income — (197)
Reversion excise tax 76 —
Divestiture gains (55) (1,168)

Pension and postretirement — 1,635
Acquisition expenses — 657

Other — 2
Other (income)/expense, net (2,211) 2,262

Increase to pretax income 24,400 4,475

Income taxes on items above (1,733) (687)
Income taxes attributed to Otezla* divestiture 266 808
Income taxes attributed to internal transfer of intangible assets 853 —
Income taxes (614) 121

Increase to net earnings $ 23,786 $ 4,596

(a)    Includes amortization of purchase price adjustments to Celgene debt.

54

The reconciliations from GAAP to Non-GAAP were as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ---- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2020 2019

Net (Loss)/Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — GAAP $ (9,015) $ 3,439
Specified Items 23,786 4,596
Net Earnings Attributable to BMS used for Diluted EPS Calculation — Non-GAAP $ 14,771 $ 8,035

Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding – Diluted – GAAP 2,258 1,712
Incremental Shares Attributable to Share-Based Compensation Plans 35 —
Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding — Diluted – Non-GAAP 2,293 1,712

Diluted (Loss)/Earnings Per Share Attributable to BMS — GAAP $ (3.99) $ 2.01
Diluted EPS Attributable to Specified Items 10.43 2.68
Diluted EPS Attributable to BMS — Non-GAAP $ 6.44 $ 4.69

Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our net debt position was as follows:

----------------------------------------------------------- ------------ -------- ---- -------- - --------
 December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019
Cash and cash equivalents $ 14,546 $ 12,346
Marketable debt securities — current 1,285 3,047
Marketable debt securities — non-current 433 767
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities 16,264 16,160
Short-term debt obligations (2,340) (3,346)
Long-term debt (48,336) (43,387)
Net debt position $ (34,412) $ (30,573)

We regularly assess our anticipated working capital needs, debt and leverage levels, debt maturities, capital expenditure requirements, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and future investments or acquisitions in order to maximize shareholder return, efficiently finance our ongoing operations and maintain flexibility for future strategic transactions. We also regularly evaluate our capital structure to ensure financial risks, adequate liquidity access and lower cost of capital are efficiently managed, which may lead to the issuance of additional debt securities or the repurchase of debt securities prior to maturity or common stock. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities together with cash generated from operations and, if required, from the issuance of commercial paper will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for at least the next few years, including dividends, capital expenditures, milestone payments, working capital, restructuring initiatives, business development, approximately $15.8 billion of debt maturing through 2024 as well as any debt repurchases through redemptions or tender offers.

We have a share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors allowing for repurchases of our shares. The specific timing and number of shares repurchased will be determined by our management at its discretion and will vary based on market conditions, securities law limitations and other factors. The share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of shares, does not have a specific expiration date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The repurchases may be effected through a combination of one or more open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions and other derivative transactions, relying on Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. The remaining share repurchase authority authorization under the program was $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2019. Our Board of Directors approved an increase of $5.0 billion to the share repurchase authorization for our common stock in February 2020, increasing the total outstanding share repurchase authorization to approximately $6.0 billion. In 2020, the ASR agreements that we executed in 2019 to repurchase an aggregate $7 billion of common stock were settled. We also repurchased approximately 27 million shares of its common stock for $1.6 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020. The remaining share repurchase capacity under the share repurchase program was approximately $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2020. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16. Equity” for additional information. In January 2021, our Board of Directors approved an increase of $2.0 billion to the share repurchase authorization for our common stock.

Dividend payments were $4.1 billion in 2020, $2.7 billion in 2019 and $2.6 billion in 2018. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by our Board of Directors.

55

Annual capital expenditures were approximately $750 million in 2020, $800 million in 2019 and $1.0 billion in 2018 and are expected to be approximately $1.3 billion in 2021 and $1.2 billion in 2022. We continue to make capital expenditures in connection with the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, research and development and other facility-related activities.

Under our commercial paper program, we may issue a maximum of $5 billion unsecured notes that have maturities of not more than 366 days from the date of issuance. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2020.

As of December 31, 2020, we had four revolving credit facilities totaling $6.0 billion, which consisted of a 364-day $2.0 billion facility that expired in January 2021, a three-year $1.0 billion facility expiring in January 2022 and two five-year $1.5 billion facilities that were extended in January 2021 to September 2024 and July 2025, respectively. The facilities provide for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and may be used to provide backup liquidity for our commercial paper borrowings. Our $1.0 billion facility and our two $1.5 billion revolving facilities are extendable annually by one year on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. No borrowings were outstanding under revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2020 and 2019. In January 2021, we entered into a 364-day $2.0 billion facility expiring in January 2022, which is extendable annually by one year on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders.

In November 2020, we entered into a $4.0 billion delayed draw term loan credit agreement consisting of a $2.0 billion 364-day tranche and a $2.0 billion two-year tranche. The term facility provides for customary terms and conditions with no financial covenants and may be used for general corporate purposes. Any unused credit expires on April 9, 2021. No borrowings were outstanding under the term loan as of December 31, 2020. In February 2021, we terminated the delayed draw term loan credit agreement.

Also in November 2020, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $7.0 billion of fixed rate unsecured senior notes at maturities ranging from 3 years to 30 years. The net proceeds were used to fund a portion of the aggregate cash consideration payable to MyoKardia shareholders in connection with our acquisition of MyoKardia and to pay related fees and expenses. Interest is payable semi-annually. The notes rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and are redeemable at any time, in whole, or in part, at varying specified redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest.

Our investment portfolio includes non-current marketable securities, which are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our investment policy establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” for further information.

Credit Ratings

Our current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Moody’s Investors Service are A2 and Prime-1, respectively, with a stable long-term credit outlook, and our current long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poor’s are A+ and A-1, respectively with a negative long-term credit outlook. The long-term ratings reflect the agencies’ opinion that we have a low default risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions. The short-term ratings reflect the agencies’ opinion that we have good to extremely strong capacity for timely repayment. Any credit rating downgrade may affect the interest rate of any debt we may incur, the fair market value of existing debt and our ability to access the capital markets generally.

Cash Flows

The following is a discussion of cash flow activities:

-------------------------------- ----------------------- ------ ---- ------- - -----
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions 2020 2019
Cash flow provided by/(used in):
Operating activities $ 14,052 $ 8,210
Investing activities (10,859) (9,913)
Financing activities (1,151) 7,621

56

Operating Activities

Cash flow from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements from all of our activities other than investing and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for noncontrolling interest, non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash and when the transactions are recognized in our results of operations. As a result, changes in cash from operating activities reflect the timing of cash collections from customers and alliance partners; payments to suppliers, alliance partners and employees; customer discounts and rebates; and tax payments in the ordinary course of business. For example, annual employee bonuses are typically paid in the first quarter of the subsequent year. In addition, cash collections continue to be impacted by longer payment terms for certain biologic products in the U.S., primarily our newer oncology products including Opdivo, Yervoy and Empliciti (75 days in 2020 and 90 days in 2019). The longer payment terms are used to more closely align with the insurance reimbursement timing for physicians and cancer centers following administration to the patients.

The $5.8 billion change in cash flow from operating activities compared to 2019 was primarily due to the Celgene acquisition, including higher collection and payments in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by higher interest payments of $1.2 billion and income tax payments of $1.9 billion (including $1.1 billion attributed to the Otezla* divestiture) and the cash settlement of unvested MyoKardia stock awards of approximately $500 million.

Investing Activities

Cash requirements from investing activities include cash used for acquisitions, manufacturing and facility-related capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities with original maturities greater than 90 days at the time of purchase, proceeds from business divestitures (including royalties), the sale and maturity of marketable securities and upfront and contingent milestones from licensing arrangements.

The $946 million change in cash flow from investing activities compared to 2019 was primarily attributable to:
•Lower business divestiture proceeds of approximately $15.0 billion primarily due to the divestitures of Otezla* and UPSA consumer health business in 2019.
Partially offset by:
•Lower net acquisition and other payments of approximately $11.7 billion primarily due to the acquisitions of Celgene in 2019 and MyoKardia in 2020; and
•Changes in the amount of marketable debt securities held of $2.3 billion.

Financing Activities

Cash requirements from financing activities include cash used to pay dividends, repurchase common stock and repay long-term debt and other borrowings reduced by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of long-term debt and other borrowings.

The $8.8 billion change in cash flow from financing activities compared to 2019 was primarily attributable to:
•Lower net borrowing activity of $13.3 billion primarily resulting from the issuance of notes to fund the acquisitions of Celgene in 2019 and MyoKardia in 2020 and lower repayments of debt maturities in 2020; and
•Higher dividend payments of approximately $1.4 billion.
Partially offset by:
•Lower stock repurchase of $5.8 billion primarily resulting from the accelerated stock repurchase cash payment of $7.0 billion in 2019.

57

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31, 2020 were as follows:

---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------ ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----------- ----- ----- - ----- ------ - ----- - ------
 Obligations Expiring by Period
Dollars in Millions Total 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Later Years
Short-term borrowings $ 340 $ 340 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Long-term debt 48,711 2,000 4,750 4,767 4,286 4,201 28,707
Interest on long-term debt(a) 21,835 1,573 1,522 1,389 1,280 1,169 14,902
Operating leases(b) 1,916 196 189 193 158 136 1,044
Purchase obligations 5,306 2,027 953 703 629 472 522
Uncertain tax positions(c) 87 87 — — — — —
Deemed repatriation transition tax 3,295 339 339 567 798 1,008 244
Total(d) $ 81,490 $ 6,562 $ 7,753 $ 7,619 $ 7,151 $ 6,986 $ 45,419

(a)    Includes estimated future interest payments and periodic cash settlements of derivatives.
(b)    Refer to "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Leases” for further information regarding our leases.
(c)    Includes only short-term uncertain tax benefits because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution.
(d)    Excludes other non-current liabilities because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution.

We are committed to an aggregate $22.0 billion of potential future research and development milestone payments to third parties for in-licensing, asset acquisitions and development programs including early-stage milestones of $8.1 billion (milestones achieved through Phase III clinical studies) and late-stage milestones of $13.9 billion (milestones achieved post Phase III clinical studies). Payments generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Certain agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating to $14.7 billion that we would be obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of certain sales levels in addition to royalties. We also have certain manufacturing, development and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of these obligations. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Alliances” for further information regarding our alliances.

Contingent value rights were issued in connection with the Celgene acquisition. These rights were measured at fair value and payments were contingent upon the achievement of future regulatory milestones. Each CVR right entitled the shareholder to receive a one-time potential payment of $9.00 in cash only upon FDA approval of all three of the following milestones: (i) ozanimod by December 31, 2020, (ii) liso-cel (JCAR017) by December 31, 2020, and (iii) ide-cel (bb2121) by March 31, 2021. The contractual obligation to pay the contingent value rights terminated in January 2021 because the FDA did not approve liso-cel (JCAR017) by December 31, 2020.

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to our financial condition or results of operations.

SEC Consent Order / FCPA Settlement

As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.

Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.

We have established a company-wide policy concerning our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent, which includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis.

58

We maintain DSAs with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of our gross U.S. revenues. Under the current terms of the DSAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 75% of our gross U.S. revenues. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. business’s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.

We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

For recently issued accounting standards, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards.”

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our critical accounting policies are those that significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. Revenue is recognized following a five-step model: (i) identify the customer contract; (ii) identify the contract’s performance obligation; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation; and (v) recognize revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is also reduced for GTN sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g. Medicare or Medicaid), current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory levels in the distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revise information or actual experience.

The following categories of GTN adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external sources. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2. Revenue.” for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of GTN sales adjustments.

Charge-backs and cash discounts

Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower program price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed charge-back claims attributable to a sale (typically within a two to four week time lag).

In the U.S. and certain other countries, customers are offered cash discounts as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of the invoiced sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of cash discount at the time of sale and the discount is typically taken by the customer within one month.

59

Medicaid and Medicare rebates

Our U.S. business participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid plans. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability.

Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. We also pay a 70% point of service discount to the CMS when the Medicare Part D beneficiaries are in the coverage gap (“donut hole”). The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments

Other GTN sales adjustments include sales returns and all other programs based on applicable laws and regulations for individual non-U.S. countries as well as rebates offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. to a lesser extent. The non-U.S. programs include several different pricing schemes such as cost caps, volume discounts, outcome-based pricing schemes and pricing claw-backs that are based on sales of individual companies or an aggregation of all companies participating in a specific market. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors including levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and lower demand following the LOE. Estimated returns for new products are determined after considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as those within the same product line, similar therapeutic area and/or similar distribution model and estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand. The estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability.

Use of information from external sources

Information from external sources is used to estimate GTN adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers is based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals.

We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.

Long-lived Assets

Intangible Assets Valuations

A significant amount of the purchase price for the Celgene acquisition was allocated to intangible assets, including commercially marketed products and IPRD assets. Our intangible assets were $53.2 billion as of December 31, 2020 and $64.0 billion as of December 31, 2019.

Identifiable intangible assets are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. We engaged an independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. The fair value of these assets were estimated using discounted cash flow models. These models required the use of the following significant estimates and assumptions among others:

•Identification of product candidates with sufficient substance requiring separate recognition;
•Estimates of revenues and operating profits related to commercial products or product candidates;
•Eligible patients, pricing and market share used in estimating future revenues;
•Probability of success for unapproved product candidates and additional indications for commercial products;
•Resources required to complete the development and approval of product candidates;

60

•Timing of regulatory approvals and exclusivity;
•Appropriate discount rate by products;
•Market participant income tax rates; and
•Allocation of expected synergies to products.

We believe the estimated and preliminary fair value assigned to intangible assets acquired used reasonable estimates and assumptions considering the facts and circumstances as of the acquisition date.

Impairment and Amortization of Long-lived Assets, including Intangible Assets

Long-lived assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable or at least annually for IPRD. Intangible assets are highly vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly newly acquired assets for recently launched products or IPRD. These assets are initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations could potentially lead to impairment. Some of the more common potential risks leading to impairment include competition, earlier than expected LOE, pricing reductions, adverse regulatory changes or clinical study results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval for initial or follow on indications and unanticipated development costs, inability to achieve expected synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other macro-economic changes. The complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar to the initial valuation. If the carrying value of long-lived assets exceeds its fair value, then the asset is written-down to its fair value. Expectations of future cash flows are subject to change based upon the near and long-term production volumes and margins generated by the asset as well as any potential alternative future use. The estimated useful lives of long-lived assets is subjective and requires significant judgment regarding patent lives, future plans and external market factors. Long-lived assets are also periodically reviewed for changes in facts or circumstances resulting in a reduction to the estimated useful life of the asset, requiring the acceleration of depreciation. In 2020, a $575 million impairment charge was recorded in Cost of products sold resulting from lower cash flow projections reflecting revised commercial forecasts for Inrebic, resulting in the full impairment of the asset. Additionally, a $470 million impairment charge was recorded in Research and development expense resulting from the decision to discontinue further development of the orva-cel program. Inrebic and orva-cel were obtained in connection with the acquisition of Celgene.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill was $20.5 billion and $22.5 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

We assess the goodwill balance within our single reporting unit annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable to determine whether any impairment in this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of such impairment. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by assessing qualitative factors, including comparing our market capitalization to the carrying value of our assets. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities and acts by governments and courts.

Income Taxes

Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $3.5 billion at December 31, 2020 (net of valuation allowances of $2.8 billion) and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2019 (net of valuation allowances of $2.8 billion).

The U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards were $1.5 billion at December 31, 2020. These carryforwards were acquired as a result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2021 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).

Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson & Company to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions.

61

Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future conduct of its business and other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value.

In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (“ELA”) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and it is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009.

We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement, including certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the initial public offering and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO. Mead Johnson has also agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets.

Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.

For discussions on income taxes, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Income Taxes” and “—Note 7. Income Taxes.”

Contingencies

In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.

For discussions on contingencies, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Contingencies,” “—Note 7. Income Taxes” and “—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”

Product and Pipeline Developments

Our R&D programs are managed on a portfolio basis from early discovery through late-stage development and include a balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. Our late stage R&D programs in Phase III development include both investigational compounds for initial indications and additional indications or formulations for marketed products. Spending on these programs represent approximately 40% of our annual R&D expenses in the last three years. Opdivo was the only investigational compound or marketed product that represented greater than 10% of our R&D expenses in the last three years. Our late-stage development programs could potentially have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years if regulatory approvals are obtained and products are successfully commercialized. The following are the developments in our marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

-------- -------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revlimid Lymphoma February 2020 Received supplemental Japan NDA approval for Revlimid in relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma and marginal zone lymphoma.

62

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo NSCLC October 2020 Announced that the Phase III CheckMate-816 trial met a primary endpoint of pathologic complete response in resectable NSCLC.
August 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced top-line results from the Phase III clinical study TASUKI-52 evaluating Opdivo in combination with bevacizumab and chemotherapy versus placebo in combination with bevacizumab and chemotherapy in chemotherapy-naive patients with stage IIIB/IV or recurrent non-squamous NSCLC. The Opdivo combination group demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in the primary endpoint of progression-free survival in a pre-specified interim analysis.
February 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the submission of a supplemental application in Japan for Opdivo to expand the use for the treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent NSCLC, in combination treatment with platinum-doublet chemotherapy, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
RCC January 2021 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo in combination with Cabometyx* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC. The approval is based on the Phase III CheckMate-9ER trial.
October 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the companies have submitted a supplemental application for combination therapy of Opdivo and Cabometyx* for development and commercialization in Japan, to expand the use for the combination therapy for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic RCC, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
April 2020 Announced with Exelixis, that CheckMate -9ER, a pivotal Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo in combination with Cabometyx* compared to sunitinib in previously untreated advanced or metastatic RCC, met its primary endpoint of progression-free survival at final analysis, as well as the secondary endpoints of overall survival at a pre-specified interim analysis, and objective response rate.
February 2020 Announced five-year follow-up results from the Phase III CheckMate-025 study, which continue to demonstrate that treatment with Opdivo delivers superior overall survival and objective response rates in patients with previously treated advanced or metastatic RCC compared to those treated with everolimus.
Gastric and Esophageal Cancers January 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted the sBLA for Opdivo for the treatment of patients with resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer in the adjuvant setting, after neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy. The FDA granted the application Priority Review and assigned a PDUFA goal date of May 20, 2021. The application is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-577 trial.
January 2021 Announced that the EMA validated its MAA for Opdivo as an adjuvant treatment for esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer in adult patients with residual pathologic disease after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and resection. The application is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-577 trial.
January 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted the sBLA for Opdivo, in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer or esophageal adenocarcinoma, based on results from the CheckMate -649 trial. The FDA granted the application Priority Review and assigned a PDUFA goal date of May 25, 2021. The application is based on results from the pivotal Phase III Checkmate-649 trial.
January 2021 Announced that the EMA validated the Type II Variation MAA for Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer or esophageal adenocarcinoma. The application is based on results from the pivotal Phase III Checkmate-649 trial.
December 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the submission of a supplemental application for Opdivo to expand the use for the treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
November 2020 Announced EC approval of Opdivo for the treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy.
September 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the results from Phase II/III clinical study evaluating Opdivo in combination with chemotherapy versus placebo in combination with chemotherapy in patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer who are negative for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, and previously untreated with the first-line therapy in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan that the Opdivo combination group demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in one of the two primary endpoints of progression-free survival, but did not show a statistically significant improvement in overall survival, the other primary endpoint versus control combination group.

63

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

-------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo Gastric and Esophageal Cancers August 2020 Announced that CheckMate-649, a pivotal Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo plus chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone as a first-line treatment for metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer or esophageal adenocarcinoma, met both primary endpoints of overall survival at a pre-specified interim analysis and progression-free survival at final analysis in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 with a combined positive score ≥ 5. The overall survival benefit was also observed in the all-randomized population.
August 2020 Announced that the Phase III CheckMate-577 trial evaluating Opdivo as an adjuvant therapy for patients with resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer met its primary endpoint of disease-free survival at a pre-specified interim analysis.
June 2020 Announced that Opdivo was approved by the FDA for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy. This application was granted Priority Review Designation by the FDA, and Opdivo is the first approved immunotherapy in this setting regardless of tumor PD-L1 expression level.
May 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the submission of a supplemental application for Opdivo to expand the use for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer who have not been previously treated, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
March 2020 Received NMPA approval for Opdivo in 3L gastric cancer in China. The approval was supported by the ONO-4538-12 Phase III study.
February 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that Japan’s MHLW approved Opdivo for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent ESCC that has progressed following chemotherapy. The approval was based on the Phase III ATTRACTION-3 trial conducted by Ono in collaboration with BMS, which evaluated Opdivo versus chemotherapy (docetaxel or paclitaxel) for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent ESCC refractory or intolerant to combination therapy with fluoropyrimidine and platinum-based drugs.
SCLC December 2020 Announced that in consultation with the FDA, we withdrew the U.S. indication for Opdivo in SCLC following platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other line of therapy. Opdivo was granted accelerated approval for SCLC in 2018 based on surrogate endpoints from the Phase I/II CheckMate-032 trial in advanced or metastatic solid tumors, which demonstrated encouraging response rates and duration of response in SCLC. However, subsequent confirmatory studies in different treatment settings, CheckMate-451 and CheckMate-331, did not meet their primary endpoints of overall survival.
CRC February 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that Japan's MHLW approved Opdivo for the treatment of patients with MSI-H unresectable advanced or recurrent CRC that has progressed following chemotherapy. The approval was based on the the result from Opdivo monotherapy cohort of a multi-center, open-label Phase II CheckMate-142 study conducted by BMS, evaluating Opdivo in patients with HSI-H or mismatch repair deficient recurrent or metastatic CRC that has progressed on or after, or been intolerant of prior treatment with chemotherapy including fluoropyrimidine anticancer drugs.
Glioblastoma December 2020 Following a routine review by an independent data monitoring commitee (DMC), BMS was informed that the Phase III CheckMate-548 trial, evaluating Opdivo plus standard of care (temozolomide and radiation therapy) in newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme with O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase promoter methylation following surgical resection of the tumor, will not meet its primary endpoint of overall survival in patients with no baseline corticosteroid use or in the overall randomized population. Based on the DMC recommendation, investigators will be unblinded to treatment assignments, and patients currently deriving benefit from Opdivo permitted to continue treatment if agreed to with their physician.
Bladder February 2021 Announced results from the Phase III CheckMate-274 trial, which showed that Opdivo significantly improved disease-free survival as an adjuvant treatment across all randomized patients with surgically resected, high-risk muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma and in the subgroup of patients whose tumors express PD-L1 ≥1%, meeting both of the study’s primary endpoints.
Ovarian Cancer January 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that Opdivo did not demonstrate a significant improvement in overall survival, a primary endpoint, versus chemotherapy in patients with platinum-refractory advanced or recurrent ovarian cancer in the final analysis of a multi-center, randomized, open-label Phase III clinical study (ONO-4538-23) conducted in Japan.

64

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

-------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy NSCLC November 2020 Announced EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy with two cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors have no sensitizing epidermal growth factor receptor mutation or anaplastic lymphoma kinase translocation.
November 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the companies received approval in Japan for the following combination therapies of Opdivo and Yervoy for the first-line treatment of unresectable, advanced or recurrent NSCLC for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval in Japan: (i) combination therapy with Opdivo and Yervoy, (ii) combination therapy with Opdivo, Yervoy plus chemotherapy and (iii) combination therapy with Opdivo and chemotherapy
May 2020 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy given with two cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or recurrent NSCLC with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations. The therapy is approved for patients with squamous or non-squamous disease and regardless of PD-L1 expression.
May 2020 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 (≥1%) as determined by an FDA-approved test, with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations.
May 2020 Announced three-year follow-up results from Part 1 of the Phase III CheckMate-227 trial in metastic NSCLC, demonstrating that Opdivo+Yervoy provided sustained improvements in overall survival and additional efficacy measures as a first-line treatment compared to chemotherapy among patients whose tumors expressed PD-L1 ≥1%.
January 2020 Announced voluntary withdrawal of the Company's application in the EU for the combination of Opdivo and Yervoy for the treatment of advanced NSCLC based on data from CheckMate-227. The application was originally filed in 2018 for patients with first-line NSCLC who have tumor mutational burden ≥10 mutations/megabase, based on the final analysis of progression-free survival, a co-primary endpoint in the trial. The application was subsequently amended to include the statistically significant result of overall survival, a co-primary endpoint, from CheckMate-227 Part 1a evaluating Opdivo+Yervoy versus chemotherapy in patients whose tumors expressed PD-L1 ≥1%.Though the CHMP acknowledged the integrity of the patient level data, the CHMP determined a full assessment of the application was not possible following multiple protocol changes the company made in response to rapidly evolving science and data. The company has no plans to refile this application in the EU.
Melanoma October 2020 Announced results for the co-primary endpoint for CheckMate-915, a randomized Phase III study evaluating Opdivo plus Yervoy versus Opdivo for patients who have had a complete surgical removal of stage IIIb/c/d or stage IV melanoma. The addition of Yervoy to Opdivo in this trial did not result in a statistically significant improvement in recurrence-free survival in the all-comer (intent-to-treat) population.
MPM October 2020 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable MPM. This approval is based on a pre-specified interim analysis from the Phase III CheckMate-743 trial in which Opdivo+Yervoy demonstrated superior overall survival versus the platinum-based standard of care chemotherapy.
October 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan announced that the companies have submitted supplemental applications in Japan for Opdivo and Yervoy in combination treatment to expand the use for first-line treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent MPM, for a partial change in aprpoved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
September 2020 Announced that the EMA validated the type II variation application for Opdivo plus Yervoy for treatment of patients with previously untreated, unresectable MPM.
April 2020 Announced that CheckMate-743, a pivotal Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo in combination with Yervoy in previously untreated MPM met its primary endpoint of overall survival. Based on a pre-specified interim analysis conducted by the independent data monitoring committee, Opdivo in combination with Yervoy resulted in a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in overall survival compared to chemotherapy (pemetrexed and cisplatin or carboplatin).

65

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy RCC September 2020 Announced that more than half of advanced RCC patients treated with the Opdivo plus Yervoy combination were alive after four years across the entire study population of the Phase III CheckMate-214 clinical trial, with the combination continuing to show superior, long-term overall survival and durable responses compared to sunitinib.
February 2020 Announced updated results from the Phase III CheckMate-214 study evaluating the combination of Opdivo+Yervoy versus sunitinib in patients with previously untreated advanced or metastatic RCC. With a minimum follow-up of 42 months, the combination of Opdivo+Yervoy continues to show superior overall survival, objective response rates, duration of response and complete response rates. The safety profile for Opdivo+Yervoy was consistent with prior findings and no new safety signals or drug-related death occurred with extended follow-up. The data were presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology 2020 Genitourinary Cancers Symposium in San Francisco.
CRC September 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan announced that the companies received approval for combination therapy of Opdivo and Yervoy in Japan to expand the combination use for the treatment of microsatellite instability high unresectable advanced or recurrent CRC that has progressed following chemotherapy, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
HCC March 2020 Announced that Opdivo 1mg/kg plus Yervoy 3 mg/kg (injections for intravenous use) was approved by the FDA to treat HCC in patients who have been previously treated with sorafenib. Approval for this indication has been granted under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response seen in the Opdivo+Yervoy cohort of the Phase I/II CheckMate-040 trial. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials.

------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orencia RA June 2020 Announced results from the open-label switch period of Early AMPLE, a Phase IV exploratory biomarker study assessing the differences by which Orencia and adalimumab interfere with disease progression in moderate-to-severe early RA patients seropositive for certain autoantibodies. Early seropositive RA patients treated with Orencia demonstrated substantial clinical improvements at week 48, sustaining the level of responses achieved at week 24 compared to adalimumab. In seropositive patients switching from adalimumab to Orencia, the efficacy responses generally increased over the open-label period to week 48.
February 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Orencia in Japan, announced that the Companies have received an approval of “Orencia for Intravenous Infusion 250mg,” “Orencia for Subcutaneous Injection 125mg Syringe 1mL” and “Orencia for Subcutaneous Injection 125mg Auto-injector 1mL” (“Orencia”) to include the description of “prevention of the structural damage of the joints” in the currently approved indication of RA for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval in Japan.

-------- -------------- -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pomalyst Kaposi sarcoma May 2020 Announced FDA approval of Pomalyst for patients with AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma whose disease has become resistant to highly active antiretroviral therapy, or in patients with Kaposi sarcoma who are HIV-negative. Pomalyst was granted accelerated approval, Breakthrough Therapy designation and Orphan Drug designation in these indications.

------------------ ---------------- ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Empliciti+Revlimid Multiple Myeloma March 2020 Announced topline results from the Phase III ELOQUENT-1 trial evaluating the combination of Empliciti plus Revlimid and dexamethasone, versus Revlimid and dexamethasone alone, in patients with newly diagnosed, previously untreated multiple myeloma who are transplant ineligible. At final analysis, the addition of Empliciti did not show a statistically significant improvement in progression-free survival, the study’s primary endpoint.

---------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reblozyl MDS June 2020 Announced EC approval of Reblozyl for the treatment of adult patients with transfusion-dependent anemia due to very low-, low- and intermediate-risk MDS with ring sideroblasts, who had an unsatisfactory response or are ineligible for erythropoietin-based therapy.
April 2020 Announced FDA approval of Reblozyl for the treatment of anemia failing an erythropoiesis stimulating agent and requiring 2 or more red blood cell units over 8 weeks in adult patients with very low- to intermediate-risk MDS with ring sideroblasts or with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm with ring sideroblasts and thrombocytosis.
Beta Thalassemia June 2020 Announced EC approval of Reblozyl for adult patients with transfusion-dependent anemia associated with beta thalassemia.

66

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia UC February 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted the sNDA for Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC. The FDA granted the application Priority Review and assigned a PDUFA goal date of May 30, 2021.
December 2020 Announced that the EMA validated the MAA for Zeposia for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active UC.
June 2020 Announced that the pivotal Phase III trial True North, evaluating oral Zeposia as an induction and maintenance therapy for adult patients with moderate to severe UC, met both primary endpoints of induction of clinical remission at Week 10 and in maintenance at Week 52 (p-value
RMS September 2020 Announced interim results from the Phase III open-label extension trial DAYBREAK, demonstrating the long-term efficacy and safety profile of Zeposia in patients with RMS. The trial included 2,494 patients who had previously completed a Phase I, II or III Zeposia clinical trial and who had an average treatment time of 35.4 months while in DAYBREAK and no new safety concerns emerged with long-term use of Zeposia.
May 2020 Announced EC approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adult patients with RRMS with active disease as defined by clinical or imaging features. With the EC marketing authorization, Zeposia, an oral medication taken once daily, becomes the only approved sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator for RRMS patients with active disease.
March 2020 Announced that the FDA approved Zeposia (ozanimod) 0.92 mg for the treatment of adults with RMS, including clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease. Zeposia, an oral medication taken once daily, is the only approved sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator that offers RMS patients an initiation with no genetic test and no label-based first-dose observation required for patients. An up-titration scheme should be used to reach the maintenance dosage of Zeposia, as a transient decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction delays may occur.

------- ------------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inrebic Myelofibrosis February 2021 Announced EC approval for Inrebic for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly (enlarged spleen) or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis, who are JAK inhibitor naïve or have been treated with ruxolitinib.

-------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Onureg AML September 2020 Announced FDA approval of Onureg (azacitidine) for the continued treatment of adult patients with AML who achieved first complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following intensive induction chemotherapy and who are not able to complete intensive curative therapy.
May 2020 Announced that the EMA validated the MAA for CC-486 (Onureg) for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with AML, who achieved complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery, following induction therapy with or without consolidation treatment, and who are not candidates for, or who choose not to proceed to, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Breyanzi(liso-cel) Lymphoma February 2021 Announced that the FDA approved Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel; liso-cel), for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma not otherwise specified (including DLBCL arising from indolent lymphoma), high-grade B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma grade 3B.
July 2020 Announced that the EMA validated the MAA for liso-cel, an investigational CD19-directed CAR T cell therapy, for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma grade 3B after at least two prior therapies.

--------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ide-cel; bb2121 Multiple Myeloma September 2020 Announced with bluebird bio that the FDA has accepted for Priority Review the BLA for ide-cel for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody. The FDA has set a PDUFA goal date of March 27, 2021.
May 2020 Announced that the EMA validated the MAA for ide-cel (bb2121) for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody. Ide-cel was granted Accelerated Assessment status by the EMA in March 2020, reducing the maximum timeframe for review of the application to 150 days.
May 2020 With bluebird, announced updated results from the pivotal, Phase II KarMMa study evaluating the efficacy and safety of ide-cel (bb2121) in RRMM. Patients with heavily pretreated RRMM who were exposed to at least three prior therapies and were refractory to their last regimen were treated with ide-cel across a range of target dose levels. ORR was 73% across all dose levels, including 33% of patients who had a complete remission or stringent complete remission. Clinically meaningful benefit was consistently observed across subgroups, and nearly all subgroups had an ORR of 50% or greater, including older and high-risk patients.

67

--------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
deucravacitinib(BMS-986165) Plaque Psoriasis February 2021 Announced positive results from POETYK PSO-2, the second pivotal Phase III trial evaluating deucravacitinib, a novel, oral, selective tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. POETYK PSO-2 evaluated deucravacitinib 6 mg once daily and met both co-primary endpoints versus placebo, with significantly more patients achieving Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75), defined as at least a 75 percent improvement of baseline PASI, and a static Physician's Global Assessment (sPGA) score of clear or almost clear (sPGA 0/1) after 16 weeks of treatment with deucravacitinib.
November 2020 Announced results from the Phase III POETYK PSO-1 trial evaluating deucravacitinib (BMS-986165), a novel, oral, selective tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. POETYK PSO-1 met both co-primary endpoints versus placebo, with more patients achieving Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) 75, defined as at least a 75 percent improvement in PASI, and a static Physician’s Global Assessment (sPGA) score of clear or almost clear (sPGA 0/1) after 16 weeks of treatment. The trial also met multiple key secondary endpoints, including showing deucravacitinib was superior to Otezla* in the proportion of patients reaching a PASI 75 response and sPGA 0/1 at Week 16.

------ --- ----------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Idhifa AML August 2020 Announced that the Phase III IDHENTIFY study evaluating Idhifa plus best supportive care (BSC) versus conventional care regimens, which include BSC only, azacitidine plus BSC, low-dose cytarabine plus BSC or intermediate-dose cytarabine plus BSC, did not meet the primary endpoint of overall survival in patients with relapsed or refractory AML with an isocitrate dehydrogenase-2 mutation.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This 2020 Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements we make from time to time contain certain “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the fact they use words such as “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “target,” “may,” “project,” “guidance,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on historical performance and current expectations and projections about our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives and involve inherent risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years, and could cause our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the statements. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things, our goals, plans and objectives regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products, our business development strategy generally and in relation to our ability to realize the projected benefits of our acquisitions of Celgene and MyoKardia, the full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and the development and commercialization of our products, potential laws and regulations to lower drug costs, market actions taken by private and government payers to manage drug utilization and contain costs, the expiration of patents or data protection on certain products, including assumptions about our ability to retain patent exclusivity of certain products, and the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this 2020 Form 10-K, particularly under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.

Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. Additional risks that we may currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause the forward-looking events discussed in this 2020 Form 10-K not to occur. Except as otherwise required by federal securities law, we undertake no obligation to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise after the date of this 2020 Form 10-K.

-------- -----------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Exhibit 99.2 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 99.2]

[Exhibit 10 to ]:
[Exhibit 10: IMMUNOLOGY]

[included in Exhibit 99.2]:
[Reference to Exhibit 99.2]

["), as amended, or the Exchange Act. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder and Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Accordingly, the forum selection provision in our amended bylaws will not relieve us of our duties to comply with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with these laws, rules and regulations.

Nevertheless, this forum selection provision in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers and other employees, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims, although our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. In addition, stockholders who do bring a claim in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Delaware. While we believe the risk of a court declining to enforce the forum selection provision contained in our amended bylaws is low, if a court were to find the provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.

32

-------- --------------------------
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

None.

------- -----------
Item 2. PROPERTIES.

Our principal executive offices are located at 430 East 29th Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY. We own or lease manufacturing, R&D, administration, storage and distribution facilities at approximately 210 sites worldwide. We believe our manufacturing properties, in combination with our third-party manufacturers, are in good operating condition and provide adequate production capacity for our current and projected operations. We also believe that none of our properties is subject to any material encumbrance, easement or other restriction that would detract materially from its value or impair its use in the operation of the business. For further information about our manufacturing properties, refer to “Item 1. Business—Manufacturing and Quality Assurance.”

Our significant manufacturing and R&D locations by geographic area were as follows at December 31, 2020:

------------- ------------- --- --
 Manufacturing R&D
United States 5 11
Europe 2 1

Total 7 12

------- ------------------
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” and is incorporated by reference herein.

------- ------------------------
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.

Not applicable.

33

PART IA

Information about our Executive Officers

Listed below is information on our executive officers as of February 10, 2021. Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term, which continues until the first Board meeting following the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and thereafter, are elected for a one-year term or until their successors have been elected. Executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name and Current Position Age Employment History for the Past 5 Years
Giovanni Caforio, M.D.Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 56 2014 to 2015 – Chief Operating Officer and Director of the Company2015 to 2017 – Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company2017 to present – Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Boerner, Ph.D.Executive Vice President, Chief Commercialization OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 50 2014 to 2015 – Executive Vice President, Seattle Genetics2015 to 2017 – President and Head of U.S. Commercial2017 to 2018 – President and Head, International Markets2018 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer
Adam DubowSenior Vice President, Chief Compliance and Ethics OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 54 2013 to 2015 – Vice President and Assistant General Counsel, China, Japan and Intercon Region and EMAC Region2015 to 2018 – Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Research and Development2018 to present – Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer
Joseph E. Eid, M.D.Senior Vice President and Head of Global Medical AffairsMember of the Leadership Team 53 2014 to 2017 – Vice President, Head of Oncology Global Medical Affairs, Merck2017 to 2019 – Head of Global Medical2017 to present – Senior Vice President and Head of Global Medical Affairs
David V. ElkinsExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 52 2014 to 2017 – Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Consumer and Consumer Medicines, Johnson & Johnson2017 to 2018 – Worldwide Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Consumer Products, Medical Devices and Corporate Functions, Johnson & Johnson2018 to 2019 – Chief Financial Officer, Celgene2019 to present – Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Samit Hirawat, M.D.Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Drug DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 52 2012 to 2016 – Senior Vice President & Global Program Head, Novartis2017 to 2019 – Executive Vice President, Head of Oncology Development, Novartis2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Global Drug Development
Sandra Leung Executive Vice President, General CounselMember of the Leadership Team 60 2007 to 2014 – General Counsel and Corporate Secretary2014 to 2015 – Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary2015 to present – Executive Vice President, General Counsel
Elizabeth A. MilyExecutive Vice President, Strategy & Business DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 53 2010 to 2020 – Managing Director, Barclays Investment Bank2020 to present – Executive Vice President, Strategy & Business Development
Ann M. PowellExecutive Vice President, Chief Human Resources OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 55 2009 to 2013 – Chief Human Resources Officer, Shire Pharmaceuticals2013 to 2016 – Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources2016 to 2019 – Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Karen SantiagoSenior Vice President and Corporate Controller 50 2012 to 2015 – Vice President Finance, Global Manufacturing and Supply2015 to 2016 – Vice President Finance, U.S. Commercial and Global Capability Hub2016 to 2018 – Lead, Enabling Functions and Finance Transformation2018 to present – Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller
Louis S. SchmuklerExecutive Vice President and President, Global Product Development and SupplyMember of the Leadership Team 65 2011 to 2017 – President, Global Product Development and Supply2017 to 2019 – Senior Vice President and President, Global Product Development and Supply2019 to present – Executive Vice President and President, Global Product Development and Supply
Rupert Vessey, M.A., B.M., B.Ch., F.R.C.P., D.Phil.Executive Vice President, Research and Early DevelopmentMember of the Leadership Team 56 2015 to 2019 – President of Research and Early Development, Celgene2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Research and Early Development
Paul von AutenriedExecutive Vice President, Chief Information OfficerMember of the Leadership Team 59 2012 to 2016 – Senior Vice President, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer2016 to 2019 – Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer2019 to present – Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer

34

PART II

------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol: BMY).

Holders of Common Stock

The number of record holders of our common stock at January 31, 2021 was 36,187.

The number of record holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered on our books at such date based on information provided by EQ Shareowner Services, our transfer agent, and does not include holders of shares in “street names” or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position listings maintained by depository trust companies.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Information required by this item will be contained in our 2021 Proxy Statement under the heading “Items to be Voted Upon—Item 2—Advisory Vote to Approve the Compensation of our Named Executive Officers-Equity Compensation Plan Information,” which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Performance Graph

The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholders’ returns of our common shares with the cumulative total stockholders’ returns of the companies listed in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a composite peer group of major pharmaceutical companies comprised of AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche and Sanofi. The graph assumes $100 investment on December 31, 2015 in each of our common shares, the S&P 500 Index and the stock of our peer group companies, including reinvestment of dividends, for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

-------------------- ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ----- ------ ---- ------ ---- ------ ----- ------ - ------ - ------
 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Bristol-Myers Squibb $ 100.00 $ 86.51 $ 93.18 $ 81.16 $ 103.67 $ 104.10
S&P 500 100.00 111.96 136.40 130.42 171.49 203.04
Peer Group 100.00 99.45 114.61 126.10 147.87 150.86

35

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

The following table summarizes the surrenders of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2020:

------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- ------------------------------- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ----- - -----
Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(a) Average Price Paid per Share(a) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(b) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs(b)
Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data
October 1 to 31, 2020 9,489,912 $ 59.95 8,901,702 $ 5,385
November 1 to 30, 2020 7,355,624 63.02 7,333,449 4,923
December 1 to 31, 2020 8,529,764 61.63 8,359,055 4,408
Three months ended December 31, 2020 25,375,300 24,594,206

(a)    Includes shares repurchased as part of publicly announced programs and shares of common stock surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of awards under our long-term incentive program.
(b)    In May 2010, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of our common stock and in June 2012 increased its authorization for the repurchase of our common stock by an additional $3.0 billion. In October 2016, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of an additional $3.0 billion of our common stock and in November 2019 further increased its authorization for the repurchase of our common stock by approximately $7.0 billion. In February 2020, the Board of Directors approved an increase of $5.0 billion to the total outstanding share repurchase authorization. The remaining share repurchase capacity under the program was approximately $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2020. Refer to “Item 1. Financial Statements-Note 16. Equity” for information on the share repurchase program. In January 2021, the Board of Directors approved an increase of $2.0 billion to the share repurchase authorization for our common stock.

36

------- ------------------------
Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

The following table sets forth our selected historical consolidated financial information for each of the five periods indicated. This information should be read together with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this 2020 Form 10-K including disclosures related to the November 20, 2019 acquisition of Celgene.

The selected historical financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes.

Five Year Financial Summary

--------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------ ---- ------- ---- ------ ------ ---- ------ ------ ------ - ------
Amounts in Millions, except per share data 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Income Statement Data:
Total Revenues $ 42,518 $ 26,145 $ 22,561 $ 20,776 $ 19,427

Net (Loss)/Earnings (8,995) 3,460 4,947 975 4,507
Net (Loss)/Earnings Attributable to:
Noncontrolling Interest 20 21 27 (32) 50
BMS (9,015) 3,439 4,920 1,007 4,457

Net (Loss)/Earnings per Common Share Attributable to BMS:
Basic $ (3.99) $ 2.02 $ 3.01 $ 0.61 $ 2.67
Diluted (3.99) 2.01 3.01 0.61 2.65

Weighted average common shares outstanding:
Basic 2,258 1,705 1,633 1,645 1,671
Diluted 2,258 1,712 1,637 1,652 1,680

Cash dividends paid on BMS common and preferred stock $ 4,075 $ 2,679 $ 2,613 $ 2,577 $ 2,547

Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.84 $ 1.68 $ 1.61 $ 1.57 $ 1.53

Financial Position Data at December 31:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 14,546 $ 12,346 $ 6,911 $ 5,421 $ 4,237
Marketable debt securities(a)(b) 1,718 3,814 3,623 3,739 4,724

Total Assets 118,481 129,944 34,986 33,551 33,707
Long-term debt(a) 50,336 46,150 6,895 6,975 6,465
Equity 37,882 51,698 14,127 11,847 16,347

(a)Includes current and non-current portion.
(b)Prior period amounts were conformed to current period presentation.

37

------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this 2020 Form 10-K to enhance the understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The comparison of 2019 to 2018 results has been omitted from this Form 10-K, but can be referenced in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019—“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” filed on February 24, 2020.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. Refer to the Summary of Abbreviated Terms at the end of this 2020 Form 10-K for terms used throughout the document.

We completed the Celgene transaction on November 20, 2019. Our consolidated financial statements for 2020 include a full year of Celgene operations. On November 17, 2020, we completed our acquisition of MyoKardia for approximately $13.1 billion in cash. We expect that our acquisitions of Celgene and MyoKardia will further position us as a leading biopharmaceutical company, expanding our oncology, hematology, immunology and cardiovascular portfolios with several near-term assets and additional external partnerships. Refer to “—Acquisitions, Divestitures, Licensing and Other Arrangements” for further information.

The COVID-19 pandemic is resulting in significant risks and disruptions to the health and welfare of the global population and economy. Although the pandemic has not had a significant impact on our results of operations, it remains difficult to reasonably assess or predict the full extent of the negative impact that the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The impact will depend on future developments such as the ultimate duration and recovery from the pandemic, government actions, impact on the U.S. and global economies, customer behavior changes and timing for resumption to our normal operations, among others. Refer to “—Economic and Market Factors” for further information.

In 2020, we received 13 approvals for new medicines and additional indications and formulations of currently marketed medicines in major markets (the U.S., EU and Japan), including multiple regulatory milestone achievements for Opdivo and Opdivo+Yervoy combinations and have over 50 unique compounds in clinical development. We are investigating Opdivo alone and in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents for a wide array of tumor types. We continue to expand in the field of hematology, where we have the leading presence, through in-line assets Revlimid and Pomalyst. In 2020, we received regulatory approvals for Zeposia and Onureg and received EMA validation for liso-cel for the treatment of large B-cell lymphoma. Additionally, our pipeline shows significant added promise in hematology malignancies through our CELMoD agents (iberdomide and CC-92480), multiple modalities targeting B-Cell Maturation Antigen (“BCMA”) and the next generation of cell therapy agents. We are expanding our portfolio in immunology with a near term launch opportunity for deucravacitinib, our TYK2 inhibitor. Additionally in the cardiovascular space, Eliquis is a leading oral anti-coagulant drug, and we continue to experience growth in both the Eliquis brand and market while also advancing our Factor XIa inhibitor program. With the acquisition of MyoKardia, we bolstered our leading cardiovascular franchise and added exceptional scientific capabilities, mavacamten a potentially transformative new medicine with significant commercial potential and a promising pipeline of candidates.

In 2020, our revenues increased 63% as a result of the Celgene acquisition, which contributed $15.7 billion of revenues or 60% of the growth, and higher demand for Eliquis. The GAAP loss per share of $3.99 in 2020 as compared to the GAAP EPS of $2.01 in 2019 was primarily due to the IPRD charge resulting from the MyoKardia asset acquisition and charges relating to the Celgene acquisition including (i) amortization of acquired intangible assets, (ii) the unwinding of inventory fair value adjustments and (iii) tax charges resulting from an internal transfer of certain intangible assets and the Otezla* divestiture, partially offset by higher revenues and fair value adjustments to contingent value rights and equity investments. After adjusting for specified items, non-GAAP EPS increased $1.75 as result of the Celgene acquisition.

38

Highlights

The following table summarizes our financial information:

------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ ---- ---- - ------
 Year Ended December 31,
Dollars in Millions, except per share data 2020 2019
Total Revenues $ 42,518 $ 26,145

Diluted (Loss)/Earnings Per Share
GAAP $ (3.99) $ 2.01
Non-GAAP 6.44 4.69

Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude specified items that represent certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other items impacting the comparability of financial results. For a detailed listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures refer to “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”

Economic and Market Factors

COVID-19

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect global healthcare systems as well as major economic and financial markets. Virtually all industries are facing challenges associated with the economic conditions resulting from efforts to address this pandemic. For example, many entities in certain industries have seen sharp declines in revenues due to regulatory and organizational mandates (e.g., “shelter in place” mandates, non-essential business and school closures) and voluntary changes in consumer behavior (e.g., “physical distancing”). Many entities continue to experience conditions often associated with a sudden and severe economic downturn. Such conditions may include financial market volatility, erosion of market value, deteriorating credit, liquidity concerns, further increases in government intervention, increasing unemployment, broad declines in consumer discretionary spending, increasing inventory levels, reductions in production because of decreased demand and supply constraints, layoffs and furloughs and other restructuring activities.

We continue to monitor the impact on our business resulting from wider restrictions in select states and non-U.S. countries. This is a dynamically changing environment and we continue to react to outbreaks throughout the world by re-enforcing our directives to keep our workforce safe in order to provide our patients with life-sustaining medicines. Continued escalating infection rates could negatively affect our planned recovery, pressuring demand from less patient visits and channel mix if unemployment data trends remain unfavorable.

We have not incurred and do not anticipate disruptions to the supply of our medicines for patients due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we are experiencing scarcity of certain raw materials and components as a result of the influx of COVID-19 vaccine orders receiving priority treatment from vendors. All of our internal manufacturing facilities and key contract manufacturers are operating with proper measures taken to help ensure employee safety. We have increased the number of our lab workers where it is safe to do so. We have implemented a number of measures to protect the health and safety of our workforce, including, where needed, a mandatory work-from-home policy for our global workforce who can perform their jobs from home as well as restrictions on business travel, and workplace and in-person meetings. Depending on local conditions, field-based personnel began in-person customer interactions in healthcare settings where it is safe to do so and approved by the government. The remote engagement model has continued to support healthcare professionals, patient care and access to our medicines. Although certain field-based sales teams have begun in person engagement in selected states and non-U.S. regions, the majority of interactions remain remote.

The situation remains dynamic and challenging to assess the potential impact on our operations such as the ability and willingness of patients to access treatment centers or obtain a prescription and changes in prescribing patterns that may potentially affect our operations in the long-term. Certain changes in buying patterns have occurred, including payers implementing policies to encourage larger prescription sizes and earlier refills to help patients avoid trips to the pharmacy. However, fewer patient office visits are resulting in lower than previously expected new patient starts. Although it is difficult to estimate the impact of these factors, we do not believe that they had a significant impact on our revenues during 2020.

The timing of specific product launches depends on the relevant facts and circumstances for each situation. For example, we delayed the commercialization of Zeposia in the U.S. based on the best health interest of our patients, customers and workforce. In contrast, Reblozyl was available for MDS patients following its approval for this additional indication in April 2020 and Onureg was available for patients with AML in September 2020. Our expanded U.S. patient assistance programs provided certain covered BMS medicines free to eligible patients that lost employment and health insurance due to COVID-19. It is uncertain what the aggregate impact of the above factors and potential changes in channel mix will have on our revenues and expenses during 2021.

39

We restarted clinical development activities after pausing the opening of additional sites during the first months of the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we experienced a slight slowdown of our clinical studies again in the fourth quarter. In addition, certain delays have occurred due to slower enrollment. Patient enrollment for certain new clinical studies and ongoing studies at new sites are carefully being started when the safety of study participants, our employees and staff at clinical trial sites, regulatory compliance and scientific integrity of trial data can be assured. We expect many new studies to start through the first quarter of 2021 following the completion of feasibility assessments, rigorous planning and selected protocol simplifications. Previously suspended research and early development activities performed in laboratories recommenced in all major sites in the U.S. although close monitoring of the situation continues.

The COVID-19 pandemic has increased the volatility of the financial markets, foreign currency exchanges and interest rates. Although we incurred downward adjustments to our equity investment fair values in the first quarter of 2020, the fair values have subsequently recovered. Lower interest rates and changes of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies have not had a material impact to our operations. The carrying value of our intangible assets was approximately $53 billion at December 31, 2020. Significant charges might occur in future periods due to a decline in previously expected cash flows as a direct or indirect result of the pandemic. This may occur due to delays in the enrollment or timely completion of clinical programs, FDA site inspections and other interactions with regulatory bodies in general, regulatory approvals, launches of newly approved products or lower demand in general. See risk factor on the Company’s risk factors resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic included under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting our business and could have a material adverse effect on us.”

Governmental Actions

Additional regulations in the U.S. may occur in the future, including healthcare reform initiatives, further changes to tax laws and pricing laws and potential importation restrictions, that may reduce our results of operations, operating cash flow, liquidity and financial flexibility. For example, in November 2020 the U.S. federal government issued regulations regarding U.S. drug prices and payment for pharmaceutical products, including regulations that: (1) would reduce physician reimbursement for certain Medicare Part B drugs administered in doctors’ offices or hospitals to a “most favored nation price” drawn from the lowest price paid by certain countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which would apply to many cancer medications; (2) would authorize states and private parties to develop and implement programs to import certain prescription drugs from Canada and sell them in the U.S.; and (3) would reform the use of rebates in Medicare Part D. The outcome of these regulations remains uncertain as a result of ongoing litigation and other factors. See risk factor on the Company’s risk factors on the executive orders included under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors—Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad continue to negatively affect our revenues and profit margins.”

We continue to monitor the potential impact of the economic conditions in certain European and other countries and the related impact on prescription trends, pricing discounts and creditworthiness of our customers. We believe these economic conditions will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or financial flexibility.

The UK departed from the EU on January 31, 2020. The departure began a transition period that ended on December 31, 2020 with a signature of a Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the UK and the EU. Similar to other companies in our industry, certain regulatory, trade, labor and other aspects of our business have been affected during the transition period and will over time. These matters and other related financial effects did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our sales in the UK represent less than 3% of our total revenues. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Adverse changes in U.S. and global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our profitability” for more information on the impact on the Company of the exit of the UK from the EU.

40

Significant Product and Pipeline Approvals

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2020:

------- ---- --------
Product Date Approval

------ ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo November 2020 EC approval of Opdivo for the treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy.

------------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy November 2020 EC approval of Opdivo plus Yervoy with two cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors have no sensitizing epidermal growth factor receptor mutation or anaplastic lymphoma kinase translocation.

------------- ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy October 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable MPM.

------ -------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Onureg September 2020 FDA approval of Onureg (azacitidine) for the continued treatment of adult patients with AML who achieved first complete remission or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery following intensive induction chemotherapy and who are not able to complete intensive curative therapy.

-------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reblozyl June 2020 EC approval of Reblozyl for the treatment of adult patients with transfusion-dependent anemia due to very low-, low- and intermediate-risk MDS with ring sideroblasts, who had an unsatisfactory response or are ineligible for erythropoietin-based therapy, or beta thalassemia.

------ --------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo June 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy.

------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia May 2020 EC approval of Zeposia for the treatment of adult patients with RRMS with active disease as defined by clinical or imaging features.

------------- -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy May 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy given with two cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or recurrent NSCLC with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations. The therapy is approved for patients with squamous or non-squamous disease and regardless of PD-L1 expression.

------------- -------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy May 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 (≥1%) with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations.

-------- -------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pomalyst May 2020 FDA approval of Pomalyst for patients with AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma whose disease has become resistant to highly active antiretroviral therapy, or in patients with Kaposi sarcoma who are HIV-negative.

-------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reblozyl April 2020 FDA approval of Reblozyl for the treatment of anemia failing an erythropoiesis stimulating agent in adult patients with very low- to intermediate-risk MDS who have ring sideroblasts and require RBC transfusions.

------- ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zeposia March 2020 FDA approval of Zeposia (ozanimod) for the treatment of adults with RMS, including clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease.

------------- ---------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo+Yervoy March 2020 FDA approval of Opdivo+Yervoy combination for the treatment of HCC in patients who have been previously treated with sorafenib.

The FDA has indicated it is undertaking an industry-wide review of indications that received accelerated approval and for which the confirmatory studies did not meet their primary endpoints. This is not specific to BMS, but we have two Opdivo indications that are subject to this review by the FDA in the third-line treatment of SCLC and second-line treatment of HCC. On December 29, 2020, in consultation with the FDA, we made the decision to withdraw the Opdivo indication in the third-line treatment of SCLC from the U.S. market. The second-line treatment of HCC is being reviewed by the FDA.

41

The following is a summary of the significant approvals received in 2021:
•In January 2021, the FDA approved the use of Opdivo in combination with Cabometyx* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC.
•In February 2021, the FDA approved Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel; liso-cel) for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy.
•In February 2021, the EC approved Inrebic for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis, who are Janus Associated Kinase inhibitor naïve or have been treated with ruxolitinib.

Refer to “—Product and Pipeline Developments” for all of the developments in our marketed products and late-stage pipeline in 2020 and in early 2021.

Strategy

Our principal strategy is to combine the resources, scale and capability of a pharmaceutical company with the speed and focus on innovation of the biotech industry. Our focus as a biopharmaceutical company is on discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines for patients facing serious diseases in areas where we believe that we have an opportunity to make a meaningful difference: oncology (both solid tumors and hematology), immunology, cardiovascular and fibrosis. Our four strategic priorities are to drive enterprise performance, maximize the value of our commercial portfolio, ensure the long-term sustainability of our pipeline through combined internal and external innovation and establish our new culture and embed our people strategy.

We are developing new medicines in the following core therapeutic areas: (i) oncology with a priority in certain tumor types; (ii) hematology with opportunities to broaden our franchise and potentially sustain a leadership position in multiple myeloma; (iii) immunology with priorities in relapsing multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, lupus, RA and inflammatory bowel disease; (iv) cardiovascular disease and; (v) fibrotic disease with priorities in lung and liver. We continue to advance the next wave of innovative medicines by investing significantly in our pipeline both internally and through business development activities. We have expanded our oncology, hematology and immunology portfolios with several near-term assets and additional external partnerships. We have invested in our oncology portfolio by pursuing both monotherapy and combination approaches and advancing our next wave of early assets and to explore new collaboration opportunities across our therapeutic areas of focus. We remain focused and well-resourced in our cancer development programs and seek to broaden the use of Opdivo in earlier lines of therapy, expand into new tumors, accelerate next wave oncology mechanisms and develop treatment options for refractory oncology patients. For hematology, we have opportunities to launch several new medicines in the near-term with additional pipeline opportunities in the longer term. There is a broad effort to continue to address the unmet medical need in multiple myeloma and we are working across multiple modalities and mechanisms of action such as cereblon modulator (“CELMoD”), T-cell Engager and CAR T-cell therapy. Beyond cancer, we continue to advance our early stage portfolio in immunology, cardiovascular and fibrotic diseases and strengthen our partnerships with a diverse group of companies and academic institutions in new and expanded research activities. We believe our differentiated internal and external focus contributes to the advancing of our pipeline of potentially transformational medicines.

Our commercial model has been successful with revenues from our prioritized brands continuing to grow, which demonstrates strong execution of our strategy. We continue to drive adoption of Opdivo by expanding into additional indications and tumor types both as a monotherapy and in combination with Yervoy and other anti-cancer agents. Eliquis continues to grow, leveraging its best in class clinical profile and extensive real world data and is now the number one novel oral anticoagulant in total prescriptions globally. Revlimid and Pomalyst have transformed the treatment of multiple myeloma, where we have a leading presence, and we continue to seek opportunities to leverage the significant medical and commercial expertise to address areas of high unmet medical need. We are building on the continued success of our other prioritized brands and remain strongly committed to Orencia and Sprycel. We are also optimistic on the future growth and near-term opportunities of Reblozyl, a first-in-class medicine, Inrebic, Zeposia and Onureg. Through our operating model transformation, our commercial infrastructure is leveraged for potential growth.

Our operating model continues to evolve and we have been successful in focusing commercial, R&D and manufacturing resources on prioritized brands and markets, strengthening our R&D capabilities in tumor biology, patient selection and new biomarkers, delivering leaner administrative functions and streamlining our manufacturing network to reflect the importance of biologics in our current and future portfolio. The evolution in our operating model, which focuses on maintaining a disciplined approach in marketing, selling and administrative expenses, will enable us to deliver the necessary strategic, financial and operational flexibility to invest in the highest priority opportunities within our portfolio. We will continue to make progress towards integrating the companies on the commercial and research and development area. Through our Celgene acquisition restructuring activities, we expect to realize $3.0 billion of synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance through 2022 and our integration efforts across general and administrative, manufacturing, R&D, procurement and streamlining the Company']:
NOTE 27: SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) ------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- -- -- ----- -- - ----- - ----- 2020 Quarters (dollars in millions) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Net sales $ 3,888 $ 3,972 $ 5,002 $ 4,594 Operating profit (1) $ 315 $ 442 $ 1,081 $ 1,245 Net income attributable to common shareowners (2) $ 96 $ 261 $ 741 $ 884 Earnings per share - basic (3) $ 0.11 $ 0.30 $ 0.86 $ 1.02 Earnings per share - diluted (3) $ 0.11 $ 0.30 $ 0.84 $ 1.00 2019 Quarters Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Net sales $ 4,323 $ 4,962 $ 4,822 $ 4,501 Operating profit (1) $ 500 $ 805 $ 629 $ 557 Net income attributable to common shareowners (2) $ 400 $ 784 $ 492 $ 440 Earnings per share - basic (3) $ 0.46 $ 0.91 $ 0.57 $ 0.50 Earnings per share - diluted (3) $ 0.46 $ 0.91 $ 0.57 $ 0.50 (1) Q3 2020 and Q4 2020 Operating profit includes a $252 million and $871 million gain on the sale of our equity ownership in Beijer, respectively. Q1 2020 Operating profit includes a $71 million impairment charge related to a minority owned joint venture investment. Q3 2019 Operating profit includes a $108 million impairment charge related to a minority owned joint venture investment. (2) Q1 2020 Net income includes a $51 million charge related to a valuation allowance recorded against a United Kingdom tax loss and a credit carryforward and a charge of $46 million resulting from Carrier's decision to no longer permanently reinvest certain pre-2018 unremitted non-U.S. earnings. Q2 2019 Net income includes a tax benefit of $149 million as a result of the filing by a subsidiary of Carrier to participate in an amnesty program offered by the Italian Tax Authority and conclusion of a U.S. income tax audit. (3) Earnings per share for periods presented prior to the Separation and the Distribution were calculated using the number of shares that were distributed to UTC shareowners in the Distribution. For periods prior to the Separation and the Distribution it was assumed that there were ...

["Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Leases” for further information regarding our leases.
(c)    Includes only short-term uncertain tax benefits because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution.
(d)    Excludes other non-current liabilities because of uncertainties regarding the timing of resolution.

We are committed to an aggregate $22.0 billion of potential future research and development milestone payments to third parties for in-licensing, asset acquisitions and development programs including early-stage milestones of $8.1 billion (milestones achieved through Phase III clinical studies) and late-stage milestones of $13.9 billion (milestones achieved post Phase III clinical studies). Payments generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and regulatory milestones for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Certain agreements also provide for sales-based milestones aggregating to $14.7 billion that we would be obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of certain sales levels in addition to royalties. We also have certain manufacturing, development and commercialization obligations in connection with alliance arrangements. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of these obligations. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Alliances” for further information regarding our alliances.

Contingent value rights were issued in connection with the Celgene acquisition. These rights were measured at fair value and payments were contingent upon the achievement of future regulatory milestones. Each CVR right entitled the shareholder to receive a one-time potential payment of $9.00 in cash only upon FDA approval of all three of the following milestones: (i) ozanimod by December 31, 2020, (ii) liso-cel (JCAR017) by December 31, 2020, and (iii) ide-cel (bb2121) by March 31, 2021. The contractual obligation to pay the contingent value rights terminated in January 2021 because the FDA did not approve liso-cel (JCAR017) by December 31, 2020.

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to our financial condition or results of operations.

SEC Consent Order / FCPA Settlement

As previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.

Under the terms of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including: (a) establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and (e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that come from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.

We have established a company-wide policy concerning our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent, which includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis.

58

We maintain DSAs with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of our gross U.S. revenues. Under the current terms of the DSAs, our wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. The three largest wholesalers currently account for approximately 75% of our gross U.S. revenues. The inventory information received from our wholesalers, together with our internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. business’s wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, our non-U.S. business has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand product level inventories for these business units.

We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to ensure compliance with the Consent.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

For recently issued accounting standards, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards.”

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. Our critical accounting policies are those that significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, actual results may vary from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates. Revenue is recognized following a five-step model: (i) identify the customer contract; (ii) identify the contract’s performance obligation; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation; and (v) recognize revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is also reduced for GTN sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgment after considering legal interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, historical experience, payer channel mix (e.g. Medicare or Medicaid), current contract prices under applicable programs, unbilled claims and processing time lags and inventory levels in the distribution channel. Estimates are assessed each period and adjusted as required to revise information or actual experience.

The following categories of GTN adjustments involve significant estimates, judgments and information obtained from external sources. Refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2. Revenue.” for further discussion and analysis of each significant category of GTN sales adjustments.

Charge-backs and cash discounts

Our U.S. business participates in programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties, including covered entities under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, whereby pricing on products is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower program price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower program price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of unprocessed charge-back claims attributable to a sale (typically within a two to four week time lag).

In the U.S. and certain other countries, customers are offered cash discounts as an incentive for prompt payment, generally approximating 2% of the invoiced sales price. Accounts receivable is reduced for the estimated amount of cash discount at the time of sale and the discount is typically taken by the customer within one month.

59

Medicaid and Medicare rebates

Our U.S. business participates in state government Medicaid programs and other qualifying Federal and state government programs requiring discounts and rebates to participating state and local government entities. All discounts and rebates provided through these programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual. Medicaid rebates have also been extended to drugs used in managed Medicaid plans. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates is presented as a liability.

Rebates and discounts are offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. managing prescription drug programs and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug benefit. We also pay a 70% point of service discount to the CMS when the Medicare Part D beneficiaries are in the coverage gap (“donut hole”). The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Other rebates, returns, discounts and adjustments

Other GTN sales adjustments include sales returns and all other programs based on applicable laws and regulations for individual non-U.S. countries as well as rebates offered to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. to a lesser extent. The non-U.S. programs include several different pricing schemes such as cost caps, volume discounts, outcome-based pricing schemes and pricing claw-backs that are based on sales of individual companies or an aggregation of all companies participating in a specific market. The estimated amount of unpaid or unbilled rebates and discounts is presented as a liability.

Estimated returns for established products are determined after considering historical experience and other factors including levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of competitive products, introductions of generic products, introductions of competitive new products and lower demand following the LOE. Estimated returns for new products are determined after considering historical sales return experience of similar products, such as those within the same product line, similar therapeutic area and/or similar distribution model and estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand. The estimated amount for product returns is presented as a liability.

Use of information from external sources

Information from external sources is used to estimate GTN adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers is based on the projected prescription demand-based sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals.

We have also continued the practice of combining retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average selling prices. Our estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.

Long-lived Assets

Intangible Assets Valuations

A significant amount of the purchase price for the Celgene acquisition was allocated to intangible assets, including commercially marketed products and IPRD assets. Our intangible assets were $53.2 billion as of December 31, 2020 and $64.0 billion as of December 31, 2019.

Identifiable intangible assets are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. We engaged an independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. The fair value of these assets were estimated using discounted cash flow models. These models required the use of the following significant estimates and assumptions among others:

•Identification of product candidates with sufficient substance requiring separate recognition;
•Estimates of revenues and operating profits related to commercial products or product candidates;
•Eligible patients, pricing and market share used in estimating future revenues;
•Probability of success for unapproved product candidates and additional indications for commercial products;
•Resources required to complete the development and approval of product candidates;

60

•Timing of regulatory approvals and exclusivity;
•Appropriate discount rate by products;
•Market participant income tax rates; and
•Allocation of expected synergies to products.

We believe the estimated and preliminary fair value assigned to intangible assets acquired used reasonable estimates and assumptions considering the facts and circumstances as of the acquisition date.

Impairment and Amortization of Long-lived Assets, including Intangible Assets

Long-lived assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable or at least annually for IPRD. Intangible assets are highly vulnerable to impairment charges, particularly newly acquired assets for recently launched products or IPRD. These assets are initially measured at fair value and therefore any reduction in expectations used in the valuations could potentially lead to impairment. Some of the more common potential risks leading to impairment include competition, earlier than expected LOE, pricing reductions, adverse regulatory changes or clinical study results, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval for initial or follow on indications and unanticipated development costs, inability to achieve expected synergies resulting from cost savings and avoidance, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws and other macro-economic changes. The complexity in estimating the fair value of intangible assets in connection with an impairment test is similar to the initial valuation. If the carrying value of long-lived assets exceeds its fair value, then the asset is written-down to its fair value. Expectations of future cash flows are subject to change based upon the near and long-term production volumes and margins generated by the asset as well as any potential alternative future use. The estimated useful lives of long-lived assets is subjective and requires significant judgment regarding patent lives, future plans and external market factors. Long-lived assets are also periodically reviewed for changes in facts or circumstances resulting in a reduction to the estimated useful life of the asset, requiring the acceleration of depreciation. In 2020, a $575 million impairment charge was recorded in Cost of products sold resulting from lower cash flow projections reflecting revised commercial forecasts for Inrebic, resulting in the full impairment of the asset. Additionally, a $470 million impairment charge was recorded in Research and development expense resulting from the decision to discontinue further development of the orva-cel program. Inrebic and orva-cel were obtained in connection with the acquisition of Celgene.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill was $20.5 billion and $22.5 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

We assess the goodwill balance within our single reporting unit annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable to determine whether any impairment in this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of such impairment. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by assessing qualitative factors, including comparing our market capitalization to the carrying value of our assets. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities and acts by governments and courts.

Income Taxes

Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including long-range forecasts of future taxable income and evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our deferred tax assets were $3.5 billion at December 31, 2020 (net of valuation allowances of $2.8 billion) and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2019 (net of valuation allowances of $2.8 billion).

The U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards were $1.5 billion at December 31, 2020. These carryforwards were acquired as a result of certain acquisitions and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022. The foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2021 (certain amounts have unlimited lives).

Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off in 2009, the following transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and (iii) conversion of Mead Johnson & Company to a limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions.

61

Certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson were relied upon regarding the future conduct of its business and other matters which could affect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, the transaction could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value.

In addition, a negative basis or excess loss account (“ELA”) existed in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area is complex and it is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included in discontinued operations in 2009.

We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing agreement, including certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the initial public offering and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO. Mead Johnson has also agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson’s stock or assets.

Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.

For discussions on income taxes, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Income Taxes” and “—Note 7. Income Taxes.”

Contingencies

In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, contractual claims and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.

For discussions on contingencies, refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards—Contingencies,” “—Note 7. Income Taxes” and “—Note 19. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.”

Product and Pipeline Developments

Our R&D programs are managed on a portfolio basis from early discovery through late-stage development and include a balance of early-stage and late-stage programs to support future growth. Our late stage R&D programs in Phase III development include both investigational compounds for initial indications and additional indications or formulations for marketed products. Spending on these programs represent approximately 40% of our annual R&D expenses in the last three years. Opdivo was the only investigational compound or marketed product that represented greater than 10% of our R&D expenses in the last three years. Our late-stage development programs could potentially have an impact on our revenue and earnings within the next few years if regulatory approvals are obtained and products are successfully commercialized. The following are the developments in our marketed products and our late-stage pipeline:

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

-------- -------- ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revlimid Lymphoma February 2020 Received supplemental Japan NDA approval for Revlimid in relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma and marginal zone lymphoma.

62

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo NSCLC October 2020 Announced that the Phase III CheckMate-816 trial met a primary endpoint of pathologic complete response in resectable NSCLC.
August 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced top-line results from the Phase III clinical study TASUKI-52 evaluating Opdivo in combination with bevacizumab and chemotherapy versus placebo in combination with bevacizumab and chemotherapy in chemotherapy-naive patients with stage IIIB/IV or recurrent non-squamous NSCLC. The Opdivo combination group demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in the primary endpoint of progression-free survival in a pre-specified interim analysis.
February 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the submission of a supplemental application in Japan for Opdivo to expand the use for the treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent NSCLC, in combination treatment with platinum-doublet chemotherapy, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
RCC January 2021 Announced FDA approval of Opdivo in combination with Cabometyx* for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC. The approval is based on the Phase III CheckMate-9ER trial.
October 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the companies have submitted a supplemental application for combination therapy of Opdivo and Cabometyx* for development and commercialization in Japan, to expand the use for the combination therapy for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic RCC, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
April 2020 Announced with Exelixis, that CheckMate -9ER, a pivotal Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo in combination with Cabometyx* compared to sunitinib in previously untreated advanced or metastatic RCC, met its primary endpoint of progression-free survival at final analysis, as well as the secondary endpoints of overall survival at a pre-specified interim analysis, and objective response rate.
February 2020 Announced five-year follow-up results from the Phase III CheckMate-025 study, which continue to demonstrate that treatment with Opdivo delivers superior overall survival and objective response rates in patients with previously treated advanced or metastatic RCC compared to those treated with everolimus.
Gastric and Esophageal Cancers January 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted the sBLA for Opdivo for the treatment of patients with resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer in the adjuvant setting, after neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy. The FDA granted the application Priority Review and assigned a PDUFA goal date of May 20, 2021. The application is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-577 trial.
January 2021 Announced that the EMA validated its MAA for Opdivo as an adjuvant treatment for esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer in adult patients with residual pathologic disease after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and resection. The application is based on results from the Phase III CheckMate-577 trial.
January 2021 Announced that the FDA has accepted the sBLA for Opdivo, in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer or esophageal adenocarcinoma, based on results from the CheckMate -649 trial. The FDA granted the application Priority Review and assigned a PDUFA goal date of May 25, 2021. The application is based on results from the pivotal Phase III Checkmate-649 trial.
January 2021 Announced that the EMA validated the Type II Variation MAA for Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer or esophageal adenocarcinoma. The application is based on results from the pivotal Phase III Checkmate-649 trial.
December 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the submission of a supplemental application for Opdivo to expand the use for the treatment of unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
November 2020 Announced EC approval of Opdivo for the treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy.
September 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that the results from Phase II/III clinical study evaluating Opdivo in combination with chemotherapy versus placebo in combination with chemotherapy in patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer who are negative for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, and previously untreated with the first-line therapy in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan that the Opdivo combination group demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in one of the two primary endpoints of progression-free survival, but did not show a statistically significant improvement in overall survival, the other primary endpoint versus control combination group.

63

------- ---------- ---- ------------
Product Indication Date Developments

-------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Opdivo Gastric and Esophageal Cancers August 2020 Announced that CheckMate-649, a pivotal Phase III trial evaluating Opdivo plus chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone as a first-line treatment for metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer or esophageal adenocarcinoma, met both primary endpoints of overall survival at a pre-specified interim analysis and progression-free survival at final analysis in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 with a combined positive score ≥ 5. The overall survival benefit was also observed in the all-randomized population.
August 2020 Announced that the Phase III CheckMate-577 trial evaluating Opdivo as an adjuvant therapy for patients with resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer met its primary endpoint of disease-free survival at a pre-specified interim analysis.
June 2020 Announced that Opdivo was approved by the FDA for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy. This application was granted Priority Review Designation by the FDA, and Opdivo is the first approved immunotherapy in this setting regardless of tumor PD-L1 expression level.
May 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced the submission of a supplemental application for Opdivo to expand the use for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent gastric cancer who have not been previously treated, for a partial change in approved items of the manufacturing and marketing approval.
March 2020 Received NMPA approval for Opdivo in 3L gastric cancer in China. The approval was supported by the ONO-4538-12 Phase III study.
February 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that Japan’s MHLW approved Opdivo for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent ESCC that has progressed following chemotherapy. The approval was based on the Phase III ATTRACTION-3 trial conducted by Ono in collaboration with BMS, which evaluated Opdivo versus chemotherapy (docetaxel or paclitaxel) for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or recurrent ESCC refractory or intolerant to combination therapy with fluoropyrimidine and platinum-based drugs.
SCLC December 2020 Announced that in consultation with the FDA, we withdrew the U.S. indication for Opdivo in SCLC following platinum-based chemotherapy and at least one other line of therapy. Opdivo was granted accelerated approval for SCLC in 2018 based on surrogate endpoints from the Phase I/II CheckMate-032 trial in advanced or metastatic solid tumors, which demonstrated encouraging response rates and duration of response in SCLC. However, subsequent confirmatory studies in different treatment settings, CheckMate-451 and CheckMate-331, did not meet their primary endpoints of overall survival.
CRC February 2020 Ono, our alliance partner for Opdivo in Japan, announced that Japan']:
Note 8.Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, colocations, and equipment. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements for certain network equipment. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ------------ ----- ---- ----- - ----- December 31, 2020 2019 Finance lease cost Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 259 $ 195 Interest 14 12 Operating lease cost 1,391 1,139 Variable lease cost and other, net 269 160 Total lease cost $ 1,933 $ 1,506 Operating lease expense was $629 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 under Topic 840. 100  Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: ------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2020 2019 Weighted-average remaining lease term Operating leases 12.2 years 13.0 years Finance leases 14.9 years 15.3 years Weighted-average discount rate Operating leases 3.1 % 3.2 % Finance leases 2.9 % 3.1 % The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): ---------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2021 $ 1,300 $ 68 2022 1,394 51 2023 1,266 41 2024 1,163 41 2025 1,001 41 Thereafter 7,206 401 Total undiscounted cash flows 13,330 643 Less: Imputed interest (2,676) (120) Present value of lease liabilities $ 10,654 $ 523 Lease liabilities, current $ 1,023 $ 54 Lease liabilitie...
