================================================================================
CIK: 0000783325
Company Name: WEC ENERGY GROUP, INC
Filing Date: 2021-02-25
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-01 15:31:29
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Requirements.

F. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Our operations, especially as they relate to our coal-fired generating facilities, are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. Costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. Additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation related to GHG emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, water use, or wastewater discharges and other climate change issues, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs.

Anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and certain remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Requirements. For a discussion of certain environmental matters affecting us, including rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, land quality, and climate change, see Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies.

G. HUMAN CAPITAL

We believe our employees are among our most important resources, so investing in human capital is critical to our success. We strive to foster a diverse workforce and inclusive workplace; attract, retain and develop talented personnel; and keep our employees safe and healthy.

Our Board of Directors retains collective responsibility for comprehensive risk oversight, including critical areas that could impact our sustainability, such as human capital. Management regularly reports to the Board of Directors on human capital management topics, including corporate culture, diversity and inclusion, employee development, and safety and health. The Board of Directors delegates specified duties to its committees. In addition to its responsibilities relative to executive compensation, the Compensation Committee has oversight responsibility for reviewing organizational matters that could significantly impact us, including succession planning. The Compensation Committee reviews recruiting and development programs and priorities, receives updates on key talent, and assesses workforce diversity across the organization.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 19 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Workforce

As of December 31, 2020, we had the following number of employees, including those represented under union agreements:

--------------- --------------- --------------- ----- ---
 Total Employees Union Employees
WE 2,460 1,923
WPS 1,127 814 (1)
WG 378 259
PGL 1,492 1,046
NSG 160 111
MERC 207 43
MGU 141 92
WBS 1,308 —
Total employees 7,273 4,288

(1)    WPS's contract with Local 420 of International Union of Operating Engineers expires in April 2021. Negotiations are in progress, which we expect will conclude before the expiration of the current agreement.

We have a local union presence that spans Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Michigan. We believe we have very good overall relations with our workforce. In order to attract and retain talent, we provide competitive wages and benefits to our employees based on their performance, role, location, and market data.

Diversity and Inclusion

We are committed to fostering a diverse workforce and inclusive workplace. Our commitment is a core strategic competency and an integral part of our culture. As of December 31, 2020, females and minorities represented approximately 25% and 26% of our workforce, respectively. We have a number of initiatives that promote diverse workforce contributions, educate employees about diversity and inclusion, and make our companies attractive employers for persons of diverse backgrounds. These initiatives include eight business resource groups (voluntary, employee-led groups organized around a particular shared background or interest), mentoring programs, and training for leaders on countering unconscious bias, building inclusive teams, and preventing workplace harassment. We also support external leadership and educational programs that support, train, and promote women and minorities in the communities we serve.

Safety and Health

Our Executive Safety Committee directs our safety and health strategy, works to ensure consistency across groups, and reinforces our ongoing safety commitment that we refer to as “Target Zero.” Under our Target Zero commitment, we have an ultimate goal of zero incidents, accidents, and injuries. Our corporate safety program provides a forum for addressing employee concerns, training employees and contractors on current safety standards, and recognizing those who demonstrate a safety focus. We monitor and set goals for Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-recordable and lost-time incidents, as well as leading indicators, which together raise awareness about employee safety and guide injury-prevention activities.

We also provide employees various benefits and resources designed to promote healthy living, both at work and at home. We encourage employees to receive preventive examinations and to proactively care for their health through free health screenings, wellness challenges, and other resources.

During 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented safety protocols and new procedures to protect our employees and customers. See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Coronavirus Disease – 2019, for additional information.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 20 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Development and Training

Employee training and development of both technical and leadership skills are integral aspects of our human capital strategy. We provide employees with a wide range of development opportunities, including online training, simulations, live classes, and mentoring to assist with their career advancement. These programs include safety and technical job skill training as well as soft-skill programs focused on relevant subjects, including communication and change management. Development of leadership skills remains a top priority and is specialized for all levels of employees. We have specific leadership programs for aspiring leaders and new supervisors, managers, and directors. This development of our employees is an integral part of our succession planning and provides continuity for our senior leadership.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 21 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

We are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the SEC from time to time, when making an investment decision.

Risks Related to Legislation and Regulation

Our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation and oversight.

We are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulations, including regulations by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. These regulations significantly influence our operating environment, may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers, and cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs. Changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could also significantly impact us, including requiring us to change our business operations. Many aspects of our operations are regulated and impacted by government regulation, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; the authorized rates of return of our utilities; construction and operation of electric generating facilities and electric and natural gas distribution systems, including the ability to recover such costs; decommissioning generating facilities, the ability to recover the related costs, and continuing to recover the return on the net book value of these facilities; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. Failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

The rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Rate regulation provides us an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. However, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. In addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable ROE. We defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery from or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. Future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. If recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

We believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied in all material respects with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. These permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. In addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. Licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. We cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies.

If we are unable to recover costs of complying with regulations or other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.

We face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations.

Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state, and local environmental laws, regulations, and permit requirements related to, among other things, air emissions (including, but not limited to: CO2, methane, mercury, SO2, and NOx), protection of natural resources, water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous, toxic, and solid wastes and substances. For example, the EPA adopted and implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of NOx, SO2, fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the CAA through the NAAQS, climate change

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 22 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
regulations including the ACE rule, and other air quality regulations. The EPA also finalized regulations under the Clean Water Act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. Several of these rules are being challenged, which creates additional uncertainty. For example, the D.C. Court of Appeals vacated the ACE rule in January 2021. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal, state, or local level. In particular, it is uncertain how the change in the United States presidential administration will impact the final resolution of several environmental standards or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations.

We incur significant capital and operating resources to comply with these environmental laws, regulations, and requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment to further limit GHG emissions from our operations; operating restrictions on our facilities; and environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. The operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could also increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. These regulations may create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. We continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations.

As a result of these compliance costs and other factors, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities have become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which has resulted in these units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. As part of our commitment to a cleaner energy future, we have already retired more than 1,800 MW of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018. Under the ESG Progress Plan, we expect to retire approximately 1,800 MW of additional fossil-fueled generation by 2025, to be replaced with the construction of zero-carbon emitting renewable generation and natural gas-fired generation.

Our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities and at third-party owned sites. We accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. These costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation and related legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered (or that may be recovered) from insurance or other third parties. Due to the potential for the imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future, the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be willing or financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, a change in conditions or the discovery of additional contamination, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate or could vary from the amounts currently accrued.

Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, has become more frequent throughout the United States. In addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of facilities that we previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during, or after the time we owned or operated these facilities. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. The incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

In the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity and natural gas, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

Our operations, capital expenditures, and financial results may be affected by the impact of greenhouse gas legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals.

There is continued scientific and political attention to issues concerning the existence and extent of climate change. Management expects this attention to continue, particularly with the change in the United States presidential administration. Although the previously issued ACE rule was vacated in January 2021 adding additional uncertainty, President Biden has indicated that climate change will become one of his primary initiatives, with significant actions expected by his administration during his term in office. As a result, we expect the EPA and states to adopt and implement additional regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 23 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Costs associated with such legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals could be significant. GHG regulations that may be adopted in the future, at either the federal or state level, may cause our environmental compliance spending to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. These regulations, as well as changes in the fuel markets and advances in technology, could make additional electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, may impact how we operate our existing fossil-fueled power plants and biomass facility, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions in the future under the ESG Progress Plan. These regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. There is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with these and other federal and state regulations or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned.

In addition, our natural gas delivery systems and natural gas storage fields may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair. Fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane. CO2 is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. Certain states outside our service territories have passed legislation banning natural gas used in new construction in order to limit these GHG emissions. Future statewide or nationwide actions like these to regulate GHG emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, cause us to accelerate the replacement and/or updating of our natural gas delivery systems, and adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities. A significant increase in the price of natural gas may increase rates for our natural gas customers, which could reduce natural gas demand.

We also continue to monitor the financial and operational feasibility of taking more aggressive action to further reduce GHG emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases. Our plan to replace older, fossil-fueled generation with zero-carbon emitting renewable generation and natural gas-fired generation will contribute to the achievement of our goals related to reducing CO2 and methane emissions. However, our ability to achieve such goals depends on many external factors, including the development of relevant energy technologies. These efforts could impact how we operate our electric generating units and natural gas facilities and lead to increased competition and regulation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.

Changes in tax legislation, IRS audits, or our inability to use certain tax benefits and carryforwards, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings.

Tax legislation and regulations can adversely affect, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, and credit ratings. Future changes to corporate tax rates or policies, including under the new United States presidential administration, could require us to take material charges against earnings. Such changes include, among other things, increasing the federal corporate income tax rate, disallowing use of certain tax benefits and carryforwards, limiting interest deductions, and altering the expensing of capital expenditures. Our inability to manage these changes, an adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions, or additional interpretations, implementing regulations, amendments, or technical corrections by the Treasury Department, the IRS, or state income tax authorities, could significantly impact our financial results and cash flows.

We have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liabilities in the past through tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions. A reduction in or disallowance of these tax benefits could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We have not fully used these allowed tax benefits in our previous tax filings and have carried them forward to use against future taxable income. Our inability to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to fully use these tax carryforwards before they expire, could significantly affect our tax obligations and financial results.

In addition, we have invested, or plan to invest, in renewable energy generating facilities. These facilities generate PTCs or ITCs that we use to reduce our federal tax obligations. The amount of tax credits we earn depends on the amount of electricity produced, the applicable tax credit rate, or the amount of the investment in qualifying property. A variety of operating and economic factors, including transmission constraints, adverse weather conditions, and breakdown or failure of equipment, could significantly reduce the PTCs generated by the wind parks we have invested in, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

We are also uncertain as to how credit rating agencies, capital markets, the FERC, or state public utility commissions will treat any future changes to federal or state tax legislation. These impacts could subject us or any of our subsidiaries to credit rating downgrades. In addition, certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, could be negatively impacted by changes in federal or state income tax legislation.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 24 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Our electric utilities could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards.

Our electric utilities are subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. If our electric utilities are found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, or damage to our reputation.

Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock.

Under the Holding Company Act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. Under the Holding Company Act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exemptions for energy-related assets.

In addition, the Holding Company Act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. This provision and other requirements of the Holding Company Act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of WEC Energy Group. As a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices.

Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could adversely affect our business functions, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations.

The global outbreak of COVID-19 was declared a pandemic by the WHO and the CDC and has spread globally, including throughout the United States. There is still considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic itself, as well as the measures currently in place to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, limitations on business operations, and the timing of widespread availability of the vaccines. Although the shelter-in-place orders that were in effect for our service territories have expired, other orders limiting the capacity of various businesses have been adopted in some jurisdictions. In addition, similar or more restrictive orders could be adopted in the future depending on how the virus continues to spread and/or mutate. Although no longer mandated by all of our regulators, our utility subsidiaries are continuing to temporarily suspend disconnections.

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related government responses have significantly disrupted economic activity in our service territories. Such effects have included, and may continue to include, extended disruptions to supply chains and capital markets, reduced labor availability and productivity, and a prolonged reduction in economic activity. These effects could continue to have a variety of adverse impacts on us and our subsidiaries, including continued reductions in demand for energy, particularly from commercial and industrial customers; impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets; continued decreases in revenue due to the inability to collect late fees; increased bad debt expense; increases in past due accounts receivable balances, impairment of our and our subsidiaries' ability to develop, construct, and operate facilities; and impaired ability to successfully access funds from credit and capital markets.

The COVID-19 pandemic has also caused significant disruption and volatility in the United States capital markets, and any additional or lingering effects on the capital markets may significantly impact us and our subsidiaries. For example, the costs related to our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are based in part on the value of the plans’ assets. Adverse investment performance for these assets or the failure to maintain sustained growth in pension investments over time could increase our plan costs and funding requirements. Similarly, we rely on access to the capital markets to fund some of our operations and capital requirements. To the extent that access to the capital markets is adversely affected by COVID-19, we may need to consider alternative sources of funding for our operations and for working capital, which may increase our cost of, as well as adversely impact our access to, capital.

We have taken precautions with regard to employee hygiene and facility cleanliness, imposed travel limitations on our employees, provided additional employee benefits, and implemented remote work policies where appropriate. Additional protocols have been implemented for our field employees who travel to customer premises in order to protect them, our customers, and the public.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 25 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

As a reaction to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is possible that federal and state fiscal spending to fund COVID-19 relief measures, coupled with a drop in tax revenue from pandemic-related reductions in economic activity, may add to the pressure to raise more tax revenue from federal and state corporate income, other taxes including payroll or property taxes, to enact new types of taxes on businesses and their customers, or to disallow certain deductions.

Despite our efforts to manage the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the extent to which COVID-19 may continue to affect us depends on factors beyond our knowledge or control. Therefore, we are currently unable to determine what additional impact the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business plans and operations, liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations, but will continue to monitor COVID-19 developments and modify our plans as conditions change.

Our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities, renewable energy facilities, and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers.

Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generation, natural gas and electric distribution facilities, and renewable energy facilities. The operation of these facilities involves many risks, including operator error and the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes. Potential breakdown or failure may occur due to severe weather; catastrophic events (i.e., fires, earthquakes, explosions, tornadoes, floods, droughts, pandemic health events, etc.); significant changes in water levels in waterways; fuel supply or transportation disruptions; accidents; employee labor disputes; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material, and/or labor; performance below expected levels; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; or cyber security intrusions. Any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses, including increased maintenance costs, unanticipated capital expenditures, and a reduction of revenues related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities.

Because our electric generation and renewable energy facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by events impacting their systems. Unplanned outages at our power plants may reduce our revenues, cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses.

Insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of these lost revenues or increased expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.

Our operations are subject to various conditions that can result in fluctuations in energy sales to customers, including customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas, varying weather conditions, and energy conservation efforts.

Our results of operations and cash flows are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon:

•Fluctuations in customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas. Customer growth and energy use can be negatively impacted by population declines as well as economic factors in our service territories, including workforce reductions, stagnant wage growth, changing levels of support from state and local government for economic development, business closings, and reductions in the level of business investment. Our electric and natural gas utilities are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. Any economic downturn, disruption of financial markets, or reduced incentives by state government for economic development could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products or services. These risks could directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas as well as the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. We could also be exposed to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills.
•Weather conditions. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months when cooling and heating is necessary. In addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. As a result, our overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, milder temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season, as a result of climate change or otherwise, may result in lower revenues and net income.
•Our customers' continued focus on energy conservation. Our customers' use of electricity and natural gas has decreased as a result of continued individual conservation efforts, including the use of more energy efficient technologies. Customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income and increases in energy prices. Conservation of energy can be influenced by certain federal and state programs that are intended to influence how

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 26 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
consumers use energy. For example, several states, including Wisconsin and Michigan, have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption.

As part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer growth and general economic conditions, weather, and customer energy conservation efforts, but risks still remain. Any of these matters, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

We are actively involved with several significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects.

Our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. We also expect to continue constructing and investing in renewable energy generating facilities as part of the ESG Progress Plan, including repowering existing wind generation projects in our generation portfolio, and as part of our non-utility energy infrastructure segment. In addition, WBS continues to invest in technology and the development of software applications to support our utilities.

Achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties, some of which we will have limited or no control over, that could adversely affect project costs and completion time. For example, the timing of Badger Hollow I was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Additional risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to adhere to established budgets and time frames; the availability of labor or materials at estimated costs; the ability of contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable laws or regulations; the impact on global supply chains of pandemic health events; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. In addition, certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. If construction of commission-approved projects should materially and adversely deviate from the schedules, estimates, and projections on which the approval was based, our regulators may deem the additional capital costs as imprudent and disallow recovery of them through rates, and otherwise available PTCs and ITCs for renewable energy projects could be lost or lose value.

To the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, tax credits are lost or lose value, or we (or third parties with whom we invest and/or partner) otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our (or their) capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected.

Our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security intrusions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information.

We have been subject to attempted cyber attacks from time to time, but these attacks have not had a material impact on our system or business operations. Despite the implementation of security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to physical or cyber security intrusions caused by human error, vendor bugs, terrorist attacks, or other malicious acts. These threats could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. If our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached, and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions, and data, including sensitive information, could be compromised.

We operate in an industry that requires the use of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems shared with third parties. A successful physical or cyber security intrusion may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, which include compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. Successful cyber security intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. These intrusions may cause unplanned outages at our power plants, which may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. The risk of such intrusions may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure.

Our continued efforts to integrate, consolidate, and streamline our operations have also resulted in increased reliance on current and recently completed projects for technology systems, including but not limited to, a customer information and billing system,

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 27 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
automated meter reading systems, and other similar technological tools and initiatives. We implement procedures to protect our systems, but we cannot guarantee that the procedures we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data and systems are adequate to safeguard against all security breaches. The failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to support, update, expand, and/or integrate these technologies across our subsidiaries could materially and adversely impact our operations, diminish customer confidence and our reputation, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against these risks, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation.

Our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. Security breaches may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or could cause us to become subject to significant litigation, costs, liability, fines, or penalties, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations as well as our reputation with customers, shareholders, and regulators, among others. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such intrusions or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. We may also need to obtain additional insurance coverage related to the threat of such intrusions.

Any operational disruption or environmental repercussions caused by these on-going threats to our assets and technology systems could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The costs of repairing damage to our facilities, operational disruptions, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may also not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance.

Advances in technology, and legislation or regulations supporting such technology, could make our electric generating facilities less competitive.

Advances in new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption are ongoing and include renewable energy technologies, customer-oriented generation, energy storage devices, and energy efficiency technologies. We generate power at central station power plants and utility-scale renewable generation facilities to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. There are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive than they were in the past. It is possible that legislation or regulations could be adopted supporting the use of these technologies. There is also a risk that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station and utility-scale renewable power production. If these technologies become cost competitive and achieve economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. Advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses.

We transport, distribute, and store natural gas, which involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.

Inherent in natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to us. The location of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject us to litigation and/or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms.

We face risks related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities that could impact our return on investment or have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

The production of wind energy depends heavily on suitable wind conditions, which are variable. If wind conditions are unfavorable or below our estimates as a result of climate change or otherwise, our electricity production, and therefore our revenues and PTCs earned from our non-utility renewable energy facilities, may be substantially below our expectations. We base our decisions about which sites to acquire and operate in part on the findings of long-term wind and other meteorological data and studies conducted in

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 28 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
the proposed area, which measure the wind’s speed and prevailing direction and seasonal variations. Actual conditions at these sites, however, may not conform to the measured data in these studies. For example, if there is an increase in frequency and severity of weather conditions, the disruptions to our sites may become more frequent and severe.

For the majority of our non-utility renewable energy operations, we have entered into long-term PPAs with a small number of customers to purchase the energy produced by our facilities. Although initial agreements are often ten years or more, in the future we may not be able to replace expiring PPAs related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities with contracts on acceptable terms, including at prices that support operation of the facility on a profitable basis. Decreases in the retail prices of electricity supplied by traditional utilities or other clean energy sources in the areas where our non-utility renewable energy facilities are located could harm our ability to offer competitive pricing and could harm our ability to sign PPAs with customers. If we are unable to replace an expiring PPA with an acceptable new revenue contract, we may be required to sell the power produced by the facility at wholesale prices and be exposed to market fluctuations and risks, or the affected site may temporarily or permanently cease operations. If we are unable to replace an expired distributed generation PPA with an acceptable new contract, we may be required to remove the renewable energy facility from the site or, alternatively, we may have to sell the assets, but the sale price may not be sufficient to replace the revenue previously generated by the renewable energy facility.

Our ability to acquire new non-utility renewable energy facilities or generate revenue from existing facilities depends on having interconnection arrangements with transmission providers and a reliable electricity grid. We cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate or increase competitive access to those markets. In addition, if a transmission network to which one or more of our facilities is connected experiences down time for system emergencies, force majeure, safety, reliability, maintenance or other operational reasons, we may lose revenues and PTCs and be exposed to non-performance penalties and claims from our customers. This risk of curtailment of our non-utility renewable energy facilities may result in a reduced return on our investments, and we may not be compensated for lost energy and ancillary services.

We are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations.

As a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations including, but not limited to, debt service, taxes, and other expenses, as well as pay dividends on our common stock, is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that are not required to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, and general financial condition, as well as regulatory limitations. Prior to distributing cash to us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. In addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay amounts to us depends on any statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual restrictions and limitations applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain specified levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met.

We may fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce.

We operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. These operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us. Failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

Our counterparties may fail to meet their obligations, including obligations under power purchase, natural gas supply, natural gas pipeline capacity, and transportation agreements.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform or if capacity is inadequate, we may be required to replace the underlying commitment at current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our customers' electric and natural gas requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. In such event, we may incur losses, and our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 29 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

We have entered into several power purchase, natural gas supply, natural gas pipeline capacity, and transportation agreements with non-affiliated companies. Revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the counterparties of their obligations under these agreements. Although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more counterparties could fail to perform their obligations. If this were to occur, we generally would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase, natural gas supply, natural gas pipeline capacity, or transportation agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. To the extent these costs are not allowed to be reallocated by our regulators or there is any regulatory delay in adjusting rates, a counterparty default under these agreements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.

Risks Related to Economic and Market Volatility

Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets.

We rely on access to credit and capital markets to support our capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. We have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. In addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity, which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets.

Our or our subsidiaries' access to the credit and capital markets could be limited, or our or our subsidiaries' cost of capital significantly increased, due to any of the following risks and uncertainties:

•A rating downgrade;
•Failure to comply with debt covenants;
•An economic downturn or uncertainty;
•Prevailing market conditions and rules;
•Concerns over foreign economic conditions;
•Changes in tax policy;
•Changes in investment criteria of institutional investors;
•War or the threat of war;
•The overall health and view of the utility and financial institution industries; and
•Changes in the method of determining LIBOR or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate.

A portion of our indebtedness provides for interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on LIBOR. LIBOR is the subject of national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, which may cause LIBOR to cease to exist after June 2023 or to perform differently than in the past. While we expect that reasonable alternatives to LIBOR will be implemented prior to the 2023 target date, we cannot predict the consequences and timing of the development of alternative reference rates. The transition to alternative reference rates could include an increase in our interest expense.

If any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and could limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level.

A downgrade in our or any of our subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral.

There are a number of factors that impact our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, but not limited to, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. We or any of our subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of us, our utilities, or the utility industry has deteriorated. Changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 30 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Any downgrade by the rating agencies could:

•Increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities;
•Require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the pool of creditors;
•Decrease funding sources by limiting our or our subsidiaries' access to the commercial paper market;
•Limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries' operations; and
•Trigger collateral requirements in various contracts.

Fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations.

Our operating and liquidity requirements are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services.

Our electric utilities burn natural gas in several of their electric generation plants and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. In many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. The cost of natural gas may increase because of disruptions in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution, international market conditions, the demand for natural gas, and the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility.

For Wisconsin retail electric customers, our utilities bear the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical 2% fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in their respective rate structures. Prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our Michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. Our natural gas utilities receive dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs from their natural gas customers.

Changes in commodity prices could result in:

•Higher working capital requirements, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings;
•Reduced profitability to the extent that lower revenues, increased bad debt, and higher interest expense are not recovered through rates;
•Higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact our competitive position;
•Reduced demand for energy, which could impact revenues and operating expenses; and
•Shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity.

We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities.

We own and operate several coal-fired electric generating units. Although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to protect against an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory levels will be adequate. While we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, we cannot assure that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. If we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal-fired units, which could lead to increased fuel costs. The increase in fuel costs could result in either reduced margins on net sales into the MISO Energy Markets, a reduction in the volume of net sales into the MISO Energy Markets, and/or an increase in net power purchases in the MISO Energy Markets. There is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.

Our use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses.

We use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards to manage commodity price exposure. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. These risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. In addition, although the hedging programs of our utilities must be approved by the various state commissions, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. Changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 31 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Restructuring in the regulated energy industry and competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a negative impact on our business and revenues.

The regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. Deregulation or other changes in law in the states where we serve our customers could allow third-party suppliers to contract directly with customers for their natural gas and electric supply requirements. This increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a material adverse financial impact on us.

Certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including Michigan and Illinois, have adopted retail choice. Under Michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. The law limits customer choice to 10% of our Michigan retail load. The iron ore mine located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan is excluded from this cap. When a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. Although Illinois has adopted retail choice, there is currently little or no impact on the net income of our Illinois utilities as they still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. It is uncertain whether retail choice might be implemented in Wisconsin or Minnesota.

The FERC continues to support the existing RTOs that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these RTOs. In connection with its status as a FERC-approved RTO, MISO implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the MISO Energy Markets. All market participants, including us, must submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the MISO region. MISO then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes an LMP that reflects the market price for energy. We are required to follow MISO's instructions when dispatching generating units to support MISO's responsibility for maintaining the stability of the transmission system. MISO also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that schedules energy and ancillary services at the same time as part of the energy market, allowing for more efficient use of generation assets in the MISO Energy Markets. These market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the MISO Energy Markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements.

The FERC rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. In addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. Technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. We currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control.

We may experience poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings due to changes in assumptions and market conditions.

We have significant obligations related to pension and OPEB plans. If we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. Types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. Plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. In addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. Our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions.

In addition, we maintain rabbi trusts to fund our deferred compensation plans, which from time to time, hold equity and debt investments that are subject to market fluctuations. Decreases in investment performance of these assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 32 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
General Risks

We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

We are subject to reporting, disclosure control, and other obligations under SOX. SOX contains provisions requiring our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. We have undertaken, and will continue to undertake, a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize, and streamline our operations with technology, including, but not limited to, the implementation of several different ERP systems. There is a risk that we will not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective because of the discovery of material weaknesses, with either our current controls and processes or with the implementation of new controls and processes around these new technologies. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls or a determination by our independent registered public accounting firm that we have a material weakness in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports, cause a decline in the market price of our common stock, restrict our access to the capital markets, or subject us to investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.

We have recorded goodwill that could become impaired.

We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate a potential for impairment. If goodwill is deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur non-cash charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2020, our goodwill was $3,052.8 million.

We may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses.

Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers and our contractors that are required to acquire and maintain insurance for our benefit. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 33 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We own our principal properties outright. However, the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains, and natural gas utility distribution mains and services are located on or under streets and highways, on land owned by others, and are generally subject to granted easements, consents, or permits.

A. REGULATED

Electric Facilities

The following table summarizes information on our electric generation facilities, including owned and jointly owned facilities, as of December 31, 2020:

------------------------------ ------------------- --------------- -------------------------- ------------------ ----- -------
Name Location Fuel Number of Generating Units Capacity In MW (1)
Coal-fired plants
Columbia Portage, WI Coal 2 311 (2)
ERGS Oak Creek, WI Coal 2 1,059 (3) (4)
OCPP Oak Creek, WI Coal 4 1,076
Weston Rothschild, WI Coal 2 719 (2)
Total coal-fired plants 10 3,165
Natural gas-fired plants
Concord Watertown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 362
De Pere Energy Center De Pere, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 166
Fox Energy Center Wrightstown, WI Natural Gas 3 574
Germantown Germantown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 5 268

F. D. Kuester Negaunee, MI Natural Gas 7 128
A. J. Mihm Baraga, MI Natural Gas 3 55
Paris Union Grove, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 364
PWGS Port Washington, WI Natural Gas 2 1,228 (4)
Pulliam Green Bay, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 81
VAPP Milwaukee, WI Natural Gas 2 268
West Marinette Marinette, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 149
Weston Rothschild, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 115
Total natural gas-fired plants 38 3,758
Renewables
Hydro plants (30 in number) WI and MI Hydro 81 100 (5) (6)
Rothschild Biomass Plant Rothschild, WI Biomass 1 45 (7)
Two Creeks WI Solar 48 100 (2)
Wind sites (5 in number) WI and IA Wind 350 498 (2)
Total renewables 480 743
Total system 528 7,666

(1)    Capacity for our electric generation facilities, other than wind and solar generating facilities, is based on rated capacity, which is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. Values are primarily based on the net dependable expected capacity ratings for summer 2021 established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. The summer period is the most relevant for capacity planning purposes. This is a result of continually reaching demand peaks in the summer months, primarily due to air conditioning demand. Capacity for wind generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds. Capacity for solar generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the maximum output that a generator should produce at continuous full power.

(2)    These facilities are jointly owned by WPS and various other utilities. The capacity indicated for each of these units is equal to WPS's portion of total plant capacity based on its percent of ownership.

•Wisconsin Power and Light Company, an unaffiliated utility, operates the Columbia units. WPS holds a 27.5% ownership interest in Columbia.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 34 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

•WPS operates the Weston 4 facility and holds a 70.0% ownership interest in this facility. Dairyland Power Cooperative, an unaffiliated energy cooperative, holds the remaining 30.0% interest.

•Two Creeks is jointly owned by WPS and an unaffiliated utility. WPS holds a 66.7% ownership interest in this facility.

•WPS, along with two other unaffiliated utilities, owns Forward Wind Energy Center. WPS holds a 44.6% ownership interest in this facility and the unaffiliated utilities own the remaining 55.4%. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information on the Forward Wind Energy Center acquisition.

(3)    This facility is jointly owned by We Power and two other unaffiliated entities. Our share of capacity is equal to We Power's ownership interest of 83.34%.

(4)    These facilities are part of the Company's non-utility energy infrastructure segment. See B. Non-Utility Energy Infrastructure Segment below.

(5)     All of our hydroelectric facilities follow FERC guidelines and/or regulations.

(6)    WRPC owns and operates the Castle Rock and Petenwell units. WPS holds a 50.0% ownership interest in WRPC and is entitled to 50.0% of the total capacity at Castle Rock and Petenwell. WPS's share of capacity for Castle Rock and Petenwell is 7.0 MW and 10.3 MW, respectively.

(7)    WE has a biomass power plant that uses wood waste and wood shavings to produce electric power as well as steam to support the paper mill's operations. Fuel for the power plant is supplied by both the paper mill and through contracts with biomass suppliers. The plant also has the ability to burn natural gas if wood waste and wood shavings are not available.

As of December 31, 2020, we operated approximately 36,100 miles of overhead distribution lines and approximately 34,900 miles of underground distribution cable, as well as approximately 450 electric distribution substations and approximately 507,900 line transformers.

Natural Gas Facilities

At December 31, 2020, our natural gas properties were located in Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Michigan, and consisted of the following:

•Approximately 50,300 miles of natural gas distribution mains,
•Approximately 1,100 miles of natural gas transmission mains,
•Approximately 2.3 million natural gas lateral services,
•Approximately 500 natural gas distribution and transmission gate stations,
•Approximately 68.2 Bcf of working gas capacities in underground natural gas storage fields:
◦Bluewater, 26.5 Bcf of fields located in southeastern Michigan,
◦Manlove, a 38.8 Bcf field located in central Illinois,
◦Partello, a 2.9 Bcf field located in southern Michigan,
•A 2.0 Bcf LNG plant located in central Illinois,
•A peak-shaving facility that can store the equivalent of approximately 80 MDth in liquefied petroleum gas located in Illinois,
•Peak propane air systems providing approximately 2,960 Dth per day, and
•LNG storage plants with a total send-out capability of 73,600 Dth per day.

Our natural gas distribution and gas storage systems included distribution mains and transmission mains connected to the pipeline transmission systems of Alliance Pipeline, ANR Pipeline Company, Centra Pipelines, Consumers Energy, Enbridge Gas, Great Lakes Transmission Company, Guardian Pipeline L.L.C., Kinder Morgan Illinois Pipeline, Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Midwestern Gas Pipeline Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Nicor Gas, Northern Border Pipeline Company, Northern Natural Gas Company, Panhandle Gas Transmission, Trunkline Gas Pipeline, Vector Pipeline Company, and Viking Gas Transmission. Our LNG storage plants convert and store, in liquefied form, natural gas received during periods of low consumption.

We also own office buildings, natural gas regulating and metering stations, and major service centers, including garage and warehouse facilities, in certain communities we serve. Where distribution lines and services and natural gas distribution mains and services occupy private property, we have in some, but not all instances, obtained consents, permits, or easements for these installations from the apparent owners or those in possession of those properties, generally without an examination of ownership records or title.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 35 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Steam Facilities

As of December 31, 2020, the steam system supplied by the VAPP consisted of approximately 40 miles of both high pressure and low pressure steam piping, approximately four miles of walkable tunnels, and other pressure regulating equipment.

General

Substantially all of PGL's and NSG's properties are subject to the lien of the respective company's mortgage indenture for the benefit of bondholders.

B. NON-UTILITY ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE SEGMENT

The non-utility energy infrastructure segment includes We Power, Bluewater, and WECI. We Power and Bluewater are considered non-utility energy infrastructure operations, however, their facilities are shown in the regulated section. We Power owns and leases generating facilities to WE. We Power's share of the ERGS units and both PWGS units are being leased to WE under long-term leases. Bluewater provides natural gas storage and hub services primarily to WE, WPS, and WG, and also provides these same services to several unaffiliated companies. WECI has ownership interests in five wind generating facilities.

The following table summarizes information on WECI's wind generating facilities as of December 31, 2020:

-------------------------------- ------------------------------ -------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- ---
Name Location Number of Generating Units Nameplate Capacity In MW (1)
Wind generating facilities
Upstream Antelope County, Nebraska 81 202.5 (2)
Bishop Hill III Henry County, Illinois 53 132.1 (3)
Coyote Ridge Brookings County, South Dakota 39 96.7 (4)
Blooming Grove McLean County, Illinois 94 250.0 (5)
Tatanka Ridge Deuel County, South Dakota 56 155.0 (6)
Total wind generating facilities 323 836.3

(1)    Nameplate capacity is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds.

(2)    In January 2019, WECI completed the acquisition of an 80% ownership interest in Upstream. In February 2020, WECI agreed to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in this wind park. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(3)    In August 2018, WECI completed the acquisition of an 80% ownership interest in Bishop Hill III. In December 2018, WECI acquired an additional 10% ownership interest in this wind park. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(4)    In December 2018, WECI completed the acquisition of an 80% ownership interest in Coyote Ridge. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(5)    In December 2020, WECI completed the acquisition of a 90% ownership interest in Blooming Grove. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(6)    In December 2020, WECI completed the acquisition of an 85% ownership interest in Tatanka Ridge, which achieved commercial operation on January 5, 2021. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

In August 2019, WECI signed an agreement to acquire an 80% ownership interest in Thunderhead, a 300 MW wind generating facility under construction in Antelope and Wheeler counties in Nebraska. In February 2020, WECI agreed to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in this wind park. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The following should be read in conjunction with Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, in this report for additional information on material legal proceedings and matters related to us and our subsidiaries.

In addition to those legal proceedings discussed in Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, Note 26, Regulatory Environment, and below, we are currently, and from time to time, subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 36 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
results of these additional legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will not have a material effect on our financial statements.

Environmental Matters

Manlove Field Matter

In September 2017, the IDNR, Office of Oil and Gas Resource Management, issued a VN to PGL related to a leak of natural gas from a well located at the PGL Manlove Gas Storage Field in December 2016. PGL quickly shut down and permanently plugged the well to contain the leak after it was discovered. The leak resulted in the migration of natural gas from the well to the Mahomet Aquifer located in central Illinois and impacted residential freshwater wells. PGL has been working with residents potentially impacted by the natural gas leak, and the Illinois state agencies to investigate and remediate the impacts of the natural gas leak to the Mahomet Aquifer. In October 2017, the Illinois AG filed a complaint against PGL alleging certain violations of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and the Oil and Gas Act. PGL entered into an Agreed Interim Order with the State of Illinois in October 2017 and a First Amended Agreed Interim Order in September 2019 whereby PGL agreed, among other things, to continue actions it was already undertaking proactively, including the submittal of a GMZ application to the IEPA in August 2019. A supplemental filing was sent to the IEPA in December 2019. Proposed modifications to the GMZ application were submitted to the Illinois AG and the IEPA in May 2020. In September 2020, the IEPA sent PGL a letter conditionally approving the GMZ application.

In addition, in December 2017, the IEPA issued a VN to PGL alleging the same violations as the AG. Lastly, in January 2018, the IEPA issued a VN alleging certain violations of Illinois air emission rules arising from the construction and operation of flaring equipment at the leak site. Both of the IEPA VN matters have been referred to the AG for enforcement.

In the complaint, as is customary in these types of actions, the AG cited to the statutory penalties allowed by law. Ultimately, the pursuit of any civil penalties is at the AG’s discretion. In the event the AG pursues penalties in connection with a final order, we believe that PGL's high level of cooperation and quick action to remedy the situation and to work with the potentially impacted homeowners would be taken into account. At this time, we believe that civil penalties, if any, will not have a material impact on our financial statements.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 37 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The names, ages, and positions of our executive officers are listed below along with their business experience during the past five years. All officers are appointed until they resign, die, or are removed pursuant to our Bylaws. There are no family relationships among these officers, nor is there any agreement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.

Gale E. Klappa. Age 70.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Chairman since February 2019. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from October 2017 to February 2019, and from May 2004 to May 2016. Non-Executive Chairman of the Board from May 2016 to October 2017. President from April 2003 to August 2013. Director since December 2003.
•WE — Director since January 2018, and from December 2003 to May 2016. Chairman of the Board from January 2018 to February 2019, and from May 2004 to May 2016. Chief Executive Officer from January 2018 to February 2019, and from August 2003 to May 2016. President from April 2003 to June 2015.

J. Kevin Fletcher. Age 62.
•WEC Energy Group — Director and Chief Executive Officer since February 2019. President since October 2018.
•WE — Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since February 2019. Director since June 2015. President from May 2016 to November 2018. Executive Vice President - Customer Service and Operations from June 2015 to April 2016.

Robert M. Garvin.   Age 54.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President - External Affairs since June 2015.
•WE — Executive Vice President - External Affairs since June 2015.

William J. Guc.   Age 51.
•WEC Energy Group — Controller since October 2015. Vice President since June 2015.
•WE — Vice President and Controller since October 2015.

Margaret C. Kelsey. Age 56.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel since January 2018. Executive Vice President from September 2017 to January 2018.
•WE — Executive Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel since January 2018. Director since January 2018.
•Modine Manufacturing Company – General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Vice President - Legal from April 2008 to August 2017. Vice President - Corporate Communications from April 2014 to August 2017. Modine Manufacturing Company is a manufacturer of thermal management systems and components.

Daniel P. Krueger.   Age 55.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President - WEC Infrastructure since January 2019. Executive Vice President from November 2018 to January 2019.
•WE — Senior Vice President - Wholesale Energy and Fuels from June 2015 to November 2018.

Scott J. Lauber.   Age 55.
•WEC Energy Group — Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since June 2020. Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2019 to June 2020. Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from February 2019 to October 2019. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2018 to February 2019. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2016 to October 2018. Vice President and Treasurer from February 2013 to March 2016.
•WE — Executive Vice President since June 2020. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2019 to June 2020, and from April 2016 to October 2018. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2018 to October 2019. Vice President and Treasurer from February 2013 to March 2016. Director since April 2016.

Xia Liu.   Age 51.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2020.
•WE — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2020. Director since June 2020.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 38 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•CenterPoint Energy, Inc. — Senior Advisor from April 2020 to May 2020. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2019 to April 2020. CenterPoint Energy, Inc. is a public utility holding company whose operating subsidiaries provide electric and natural gas service to customers in parts of the South and Midwest.
•Georgia Power Company — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2017 to April 2019. Georgia Power Company is a utility subsidiary of The Southern Company that provides electric service to customers throughout Georgia.
•Gulf Power Company — Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from July 2015 to October 2017. Gulf Power Company, previously a utility subsidiary of The Southern Company, serves customers in northwest Florida.

Charles R. Matthews.   Age 64.
•PELLC — President since June 2015.
•PGL — Director, President, and Chief Executive Officer since June 2015.
•NSG — Director, President, and Chief Executive Officer since June 2015.

Tom Metcalfe.   Age 53.
•WE — President since November 2018. Executive Vice President - Generation from April 2016 to November 2018. Senior Vice President - Power Generation from January 2014 to March 2016. Director since January 2018.

Anthony L. Reese.   Age 39.
•WEC Energy Group — Vice President and Treasurer since October 2019.
•WE — Vice President and Treasurer since October 2019.
•Controller - Illinois from September 2015 to September 2019.

Mary Beth Straka.   Age 56.
•WEC Energy Group — Senior Vice President - Corporate Communications and Investor Relations since June 2015.

Certain executive officers also hold officer and/or director positions at WEC Energy Group's other significant subsidiaries.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 39 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Number of Common Shareholders

As of January 31, 2021, based upon the number of WEC Energy Group shareholder accounts (including accounts in our stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan), we had approximately 42,000 registered shareholders.

Common Stock Listing and Trading

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "WEC."

Common Stock Dividends of WEC Energy Group

We review our dividend policy on a regular basis. Subject to any regulatory restrictions or other limitations on the payment of dividends, future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other factors, earnings, financial condition, and other requirements. For more information on our dividends, including restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends, see Note 11, Common Equity.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

 WEC ENERGY GROUP, INC.
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL DATA AND OTHER STATISTICS

-------------------------------------------- -------- ------- ---- -------- ---- ------- -------- ---- -------- -------- ------- - -------
As of or for Year Ended December 31
(in millions, except per share information) 2020 2019 2018 2017 (1) 2016
Operating revenues $ 7,241.7 $ 7,523.1 $ 7,679.5 $ 7,648.5 $ 7,472.3
Net income attributed to common shareholders 1,199.9 1,134.0 1,059.3 1,203.7 939.0
Total assets 37,028.1 34,951.8 33,475.8 31,590.5 30,123.2
Preferred stock of subsidiary 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4
Long-term debt (excluding current portion) 11,728.1 11,211.0 9,994.0 8,746.6 9,158.2

Weighted average common shares outstanding
Basic 315.4 315.4 315.5 315.6 315.6
Diluted 316.5 316.7 316.9 317.2 316.9

Earnings per share
Basic $ 3.80 $ 3.60 $ 3.36 $ 3.81 $ 2.98
Diluted $ 3.79 $ 3.58 $ 3.34 $ 3.79 $ 2.96

Dividends per share of common stock $ 2.53 $ 2.36 $ 2.21 $ 2.08 $ 1.98

(1)    Includes a $206.7 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders related to a re-measurement of our deferred taxes as a result of the Tax Legislation.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 40 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS

Introduction

We are a diversified holding company with natural gas and electric utility operations (serving customers in Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, and Minnesota), an approximately 60% equity ownership interest in American Transmission Company LLC (ATC) (a for-profit electric transmission company regulated by the FERC and certain state regulatory commissions), and non-utility energy infrastructure operations through We Power (which owns generation assets in Wisconsin), Bluewater (which owns underground natural gas storage facilities in Michigan), and WEC Infrastructure LLC (WECI), which holds ownership interests in several wind generating facilities.

Corporate Strategy

Our goal is to continue to build and sustain long-term value for our shareholders and customers by focusing on the fundamentals of our business: environmental stewardship; reliability; operating efficiency; financial discipline; exceptional customer care; and safety. Our 2021-2025 capital investment plan for efficiency, sustainability and growth, referred to as our ESG Progress Plan, provides a roadmap for us to achieve this goal. It is an aggressive plan to cut emissions, maintain superior reliability, deliver significant savings for customers, and grow our investment in the future of energy.

Throughout our strategic planning process, we take into account important developments, risks and opportunities, including new technologies, customer preferences and commodity prices, energy resiliency efforts, and sustainability. We published the results of a priority sustainability issue assessment in 2020, identifying the issues that are most important to our company and its stakeholders over the short and long terms. Our risk and priority assessments have formed our direction as a company.

Creating a Sustainable Future

Our ESG Progress Plan includes the retirement of older, fossil-fueled generation, to be replaced with the construction of zero-carbon-emitting renewable generation and clean natural gas-fired generation. When taken together, the retirements and new investments should better balance our supply with our demand, while maintaining reliable, affordable energy for our customers. The retirements will contribute to meeting our goals to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from our electric generation.

In 2019, we met and surpassed our original goal to reduce CO2 emissions by 40% below 2005 levels. In July 2020, we announced new goals to reduce CO2 emissions from our electric generation by 70% below 2005 levels by 2030 and to be net carbon neutral by 2050. We added a near-term goal in November 2020 to reduce CO2 emissions by 55% below 2005 levels by 2025.

We already have retired more than 1,800 megawatts (MW) of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018, which included the 2019 retirement of the Presque Isle power plant as well as the 2018 retirements of the Pleasant Prairie power plant, the Pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned Edgewater Unit 4 generating units. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, for more information related to these power plant retirements. As part of our ESG Progress Plan, we expect to retire approximately 1,800 MW of additional fossil-fueled generation by 2025.

In addition to retiring these older, fossil-fueled plants, we expect to invest approximately $2 billion from 2021-2025 in low-cost renewable energy in Wisconsin. Our plan is to replace a portion of the retired capacity by building and owning a combination of clean, natural gas-fired generation and zero-carbon-emitting renewable generation facilities that are anticipated to include the following new investments:

•800 MW of utility-scale solar;
•600 MW of battery storage;
•100 MW of wind;
•100 MW of reciprocating internal combustion engine (RICE) natural gas-fueled generation; and
•the planned purchase of 200 MW of capacity in the West Riverside Energy Center – a new, combined-cycle natural gas plant recently completed by Alliant Energy in Wisconsin.

These new investments discussed above are in addition to the renewable projects currently underway.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 41 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

We have received approval to invest in 300 MW of utility-scale solar within our Wisconsin segment. Wisconsin Public Service Corporation (WPS) has partnered with an unaffiliated utility to construct two solar projects in Wisconsin: Two Creeks Solar Park, now in service, and Badger Hollow Solar Park I, targeted for completion in the second quarter of 2021. WPS owns 100 MW of Two Creeks and will own 100 MW of Badger Hollow I for a total of 200 MW. Wisconsin Electric Power Company (WE) has partnered with an unaffiliated utility to construct Badger Hollow Solar Park II that is expected to enter commercial operation in December 2022. Once constructed, WE will own 100 MW of this project.

In December 2018, WE received approval from the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) for two renewable energy pilot programs. The Solar Now pilot is expected to add 35 MW of solar generation to WE's portfolio, allowing non-profit and governmental entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers to site utility owned solar arrays on their property. Under this program, WE has energized 13 Solar Now projects and currently has another five under construction, together totaling more than 15 MW. The second program, the Dedicated Renewable Energy Resource pilot, would allow large commercial and industrial customers to access renewable resources that WE would operate, adding up to 150 MW of renewables to WE's portfolio, and helping these larger customers meet their sustainability and renewable energy goals.

We also have a goal to decrease the rate of methane emissions from the natural gas distribution lines in our networks by 30% per mile by the year 2030 from a 2011 baseline. We were over halfway toward meeting that goal at the end of 2019.

Reliability

We have made significant reliability-related investments in recent years, and in accordance with our ESG Progress Plan, expect to continue strengthening and modernizing our generation fleet and distribution networks to further improve reliability. Our investments, coupled with our commitment to operating efficiency and customer care, resulted in We Energies being recognized in 2020 by PA Consulting Group, an independent consulting firm, for superior reliability of its electric delivery network. This was the 10th consecutive year that We Energies has been named the most reliable utility in the Midwest.

Below are a few examples of reliability projects that are proposed or currently underway.

•WE is constructing approximately 46 miles of natural gas transmission main to increase the quantity and reliability of natural gas service in southeastern Wisconsin. This project, called the Lakeshore Lateral Project, is expected to be completed by the end of 2021.

•WE and Wisconsin Gas LLC (WG) each plan to construct their own liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility to meet anticipated peak demand. Subject to PSCW approval, commercial operation of the LNG facilities is targeted for the end of 2023.

•The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company continues to work on its Natural Gas System Modernization Program, which primarily involves replacing old iron pipes and facilities in Chicago’s natural gas delivery system with modern polyethylene pipes to reinforce the long-term safety and reliability of the system.

•WPS continues work on its System Modernization and Reliability Project, which involves modernizing parts of its electric distribution system, including burying or upgrading lines. WE, WPS, and WG also continue to upgrade their electric and natural gas distribution systems to enhance reliability.

For more details, see Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Resources and Requirements – Capital Requirements – Significant Capital Projects.

Operating Efficiency

We continually look for ways to optimize the operating efficiency of our company and will continue to do so under the ESG Progress Plan. For example, we are making progress on our Advanced Metering Infrastructure program, replacing aging meter-reading equipment on both our network and customer property. An integrated system of smart meters, communication networks, and data management programs enables two-way communication between our utilities and our customers. This program reduces the manual effort for disconnects and reconnects and enhances outage management capabilities.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 42 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
We continue to focus on integrating the resources of all our businesses and finding the best and most efficient processes while meeting all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Financial Discipline

A strong adherence to financial discipline is essential to meeting our earnings projections and maintaining a strong balance sheet, stable cash flows, a growing dividend, and quality credit ratings.

We follow an asset management strategy that focuses on investing in and acquiring assets consistent with our strategic plans, as well as disposing of assets, including property, plants, equipment, and entire business units, that are no longer strategic to operations, are not performing as intended, or have an unacceptable risk profile. See Note 3, Dispositions, for information on the sale of certain WPS Power Development, LLC solar power generation facilities.

Our investment focus remains in our regulated utility and non-utility energy infrastructure businesses, as well as our investment in ATC. In our non-utility energy infrastructure segment, we have acquired or agreed to acquire majority interests in six wind parks, capable of providing more than 1,000 MW of carbon-free energy in total. These renewable energy assets represent more than $1.6 billion in committed investments and have long-term agreements to serve customers outside our traditional service areas. Production tax credits from these wind investments reduce our cash tax expense. We also project that these investments will generate higher returns than our regulated business. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for additional information on these transactions.

We expect total capital expenditures for our regulated utility and non-utility energy infrastructure businesses to be approximately $15.0 billion from 2021 to 2025. In addition, we currently forecast that our share of ATC's projected capital expenditures over the next five years will be $1.1 billion. Specific projects included in the $16.1 billion ESG Progress Plan are discussed in more detail below under Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Exceptional Customer Care

Our approach is driven by an intense focus on delivering exceptional customer care every day. We strive to provide the best value for our customers by demonstrating personal responsibility for results, leveraging our capabilities and expertise, and using creative solutions to meet or exceed our customers’ expectations.

A multiyear effort is driving a standardized, seamless approach to digital customer service across our companies. We have moved all utilities to a common platform for all customer-facing self-service options. Using common systems and processes reduces costs, provides greater flexibility and enhances the consistent delivery of exceptional service to customers.

Safety

Across the organization, we monitor the integrity of our networks and conduct comprehensive incident response planning to enhance the safety of our operations.

Under our "Target Zero" mission, we have an ultimate goal of zero incidents, accidents, and injuries. We also set goals around injury-prevention activities that raise awareness and facilitate conversations about employee safety. Our corporate safety program provides a forum for addressing employee concerns, training employees and contractors on current safety standards, and recognizing those who demonstrate a safety focus.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 43 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated Earnings

The following table compares our consolidated results, including favorable or better, "B", and unfavorable or worse, "W", variances:

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------- ------ ----- ------- ----- ---- - ----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions, except per share data) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Wisconsin $ 690.4 $ 649.9 $ 617.0 $ 40.5 $ 32.9
Illinois 203.5 170.3 147.1 33.2 23.2
Other states 39.0 43.2 44.1 (4.2) (0.9)
Electric transmission 112.6 87.4 82.8 25.2 4.6
Non-utility energy infrastructure 260.8 246.0 228.4 14.8 17.6
Corporate and other (106.4) (62.8) (60.1) (43.6) (2.7)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 1,199.9 $ 1,134.0 $ 1,059.3 $ 65.9 $ 74.7

Diluted earnings per share $ 3.79 $ 3.58 $ 3.34 $ 0.21 $ 0.24

2020 Compared with 2019

Earnings increased $65.9 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The significant factors impacting the $65.9 million increase in earnings were:

•A $40.5 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the Wisconsin segment. The increase was driven by the impact of the Wisconsin rate orders approved by the PSCW, effective January 1, 2020, lower operation and maintenance expense, and a positive impact from collections of fuel and purchased power costs. Lower electric and natural gas distribution expenses, a decrease in expense related to the earnings sharing mechanisms in place at our Wisconsin utilities, and lower benefit costs all contributed to the lower operation and maintenance expense. These positive impacts were partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization and the impact of lower retail sales volumes. The lower sales volumes were driven by impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic and warmer winter weather during 2020.

•A $33.2 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the Illinois segment, driven by lower operation and maintenance expense and PGL's continued capital investment in the SMP project under its QIP rider. Lower natural gas distribution maintenance costs, lower customer service expenses, and lower benefit costs drove the decrease in operation and maintenance expense during 2020.

•A $25.2 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at our electric transmission segment, driven by higher equity earnings from transmission affiliates. The higher equity earnings were primarily due to the impacts of FERC orders issued in November 2019 and May 2020 addressing complaints related to ATC's ROE. For further discussion of the FERC orders, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Other Matters – American Transmission Company Allowed Return on Equity Complaints. Continued capital investment by ATC also contributed to the higher equity earnings from transmission affiliates.

•A $14.8 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment, primarily due to lower income tax expense in 2020 driven by wind PTCs generated by our Coyote Ridge wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2019. See Note 2, Acquisitions, and Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

Partially offsetting these increases in earnings was a $43.6 million increase in the net loss attributed to common shareholders at the     corporate and other segment, driven by make-whole premiums related to the early extinguishment of debt during 2020. A higher net operating loss at Wispark, lower net gains from the investments held in the rabbi trust, and a change in unrecognized tax benefits also contributed to the increase in the net loss. These negative impacts were partially offset by lower interest expense. The gains from the investments held in the rabbi trust partially offset benefits costs related to deferred compensation, which are included in our operating segments. See Note 17, Fair Value Measurements, for more information on our investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 44 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
2019 Compared with 2018

Earnings increased $74.7 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The significant factors impacting the $74.7 million increase in earnings were:

•A $32.9 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the Wisconsin segment. The increase was driven by lower operation and maintenance expense related to our power plants, which primarily resulted from lower maintenance and labor costs associated with our 2019 and 2018 plant retirements and increases to certain plant-related regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2019 Wisconsin rate orders. The positive impact from lower operation and maintenance expense was partially offset by a decrease in electric margins related to lower retail sales volumes, primarily driven by cooler summer weather during 2019 compared with 2018, and higher depreciation and amortization expense, driven by assets being placed into service as we continue to execute on our capital plan.

•A $23.2 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the Illinois segment, driven by PGL's continued capital investment in the SMP project under its QIP rider.

•A $17.6 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment, driven by an increase in wind PTCs recognized on the three wind parks acquired in 2018 and 2019.

•A $4.6 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at our electric transmission segment, driven by lower income tax expense. The decrease in income tax expense was driven by a tax basis adjustment related to the remeasurement of deferred income taxes in 2018 and a change in the tax rates at the segment level resulting from the transfer of ownership in the ATC investment between our subsidiaries. The decrease in income tax expense related to the change in tax rates was offset in the corporate and other segment and, as a result, had no effect on consolidated net income. The positive impact from lower income taxes was partially offset by higher interest expense in 2019, due to debt issuances at ATC Holding in September 2019 and December 2018, and lower equity earnings from our investment in ATC as a result of a FERC order issued in November 2019 that addressed complaints related to ATC's allowed ROE.

Partially offsetting these increases in earnings was a $2.7 million increase in the net loss attributed to common shareholders at the corporate and other segment. The increase in the net loss was driven by higher interest expense in 2019, primarily related to continued capital investments across our segments, and higher net operating losses, primarily at WBS, our centralized services company. WBS transferred assets to our regulated utilities in 2018, and as a result of these transfers, the return on these assets is now recognized within our regulated utility operations. These negative impacts were substantially offset by net gains from investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2019, compared with net losses during 2018.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The discussions below address the contribution of each of our segments to net income attributed to common shareholders. The discussions include financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as electric margins and natural gas margins, which are not measures of financial performance under GAAP. Electric margin (electric revenues less fuel and purchased power costs) and natural gas margin (natural gas revenues less cost of natural gas sold) are non-GAAP financial measures because they exclude other operation and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes.

We believe that electric and natural gas margins provide a useful basis for evaluating utility operations since the majority of prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs, as well as prudently incurred natural gas costs, are passed through to customers in current rates. As a result, management uses electric and natural gas margins internally when assessing the operating performance of our segments as these measures exclude the majority of revenue fluctuations caused by changes in these expenses. Similarly, the presentation of electric and natural gas margins herein is intended to provide supplemental information for investors regarding our operating performance.

Our electric margins and natural gas margins may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. Furthermore, these measures are not intended to replace operating income as determined in accordance with GAAP as an indicator of operating performance. Each applicable segment discussion below includes a table that provides the calculation of electric margins and natural gas margins, as applicable, along with a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, operating income.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 45 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Wisconsin Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The Wisconsin segment's contribution to net income attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $690.4 million, representing a $40.5 million, or 6.2%, increase over the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Wisconsin rate orders approved by the PSCW, effective January 1, 2020, lower operation and maintenance expense, and a positive impact from collections of fuel and purchased power costs. Lower electric and natural gas distribution expenses, a decrease in expense related to the earnings sharing mechanisms in place at our Wisconsin utilities, and lower benefit costs all contributed to the lower operation and maintenance expense. These increases were partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization and the impact of lower retail sales volumes. The lower sales volumes were driven by impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic and warmer winter weather during 2020.

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------- ------------- ------- ------------- ------- ------- ----- ------- ------- ------ - -------
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Electric revenues $ 4,274.0 $ 4,317.6 $ 4,438.9 $ (43.6) $ (121.3)
Fuel and purchased power 1,238.1 1,341.9 1,418.1 103.8 76.2
Total electric margins 3,035.9 2,975.7 3,020.8 60.2 (45.1)

Natural gas revenues 1,199.5 1,329.5 1,355.8 (130.0) (26.3)
Cost of natural gas sold 595.2 748.0 792.1 152.8 44.1
Total natural gas margins 604.3 581.5 563.7 22.8 17.8

Total electric and natural gas margins 3,640.2 3,557.2 3,584.5 83.0 (27.3)

Other operation and maintenance 1,476.7 1,591.3 2,076.1 114.6 484.8
Depreciation and amortization 674.5 617.0 546.6 (57.5) (70.4)
Property and revenue taxes 156.2 159.3 161.6 3.1 2.3
Operating income 1,332.8 1,189.6 800.2 143.2 389.4

Other income, net 52.8 68.7 65.4 (15.9) 3.3
Interest expense 561.3 572.0 200.7 10.7 (371.3)
Income before income taxes 824.3 686.3 664.9 138.0 21.4

Income tax expense 132.7 35.2 46.7 (97.5) 11.5
Preferred stock dividends of subsidiary 1.2 1.2 1.2 — —
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 690.4 $ 649.9 $ 617.0 $ 40.5 $ 32.9

The following table shows a breakdown of other operation and maintenance:

------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------- ------------- ----- ------------- ------- ----- ----- ------- ----- ----- - -----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Operation and maintenance not included in line items below $ 673.5 $ 670.7 $ 769.5 $ (2.8) $ 98.8
Transmission (1) 518.0 418.1 420.7 (99.9) 2.6
Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses (2) 138.6 160.6 159.1 22.0 (1.5)
We Power (3) 119.3 140.9 506.9 21.6 366.0
Transmission expense related to the flow through of tax repairs (4) — 67.2 77.8 67.2 10.6
Transmission expense related to Tax Legislation (5) — 65.3 67.7 65.3 2.4
Earnings sharing mechanisms (6) 21.6 61.5 67.5 39.9 6.0
Other 5.7 7.0 6.9 1.3 (0.1)
Total other operation and maintenance $ 1,476.7 $ 1,591.3 $ 2,076.1 $ 114.6 $ 484.8

(1)    Represents transmission expense that we are authorized to collect in rates, in accordance with the PSCW's approval of escrow accounting for ATC and MISO network transmission expenses for our Wisconsin electric utilities. As a result, WE and WPS defer as a regulatory asset or liability, the difference between actual transmission costs and those included in rates until recovery or refund is authorized in a future rate proceeding. During 2020, 2019, and 2018, $481.8 million, $486.7 million, and $438.2 million, respectively, of costs were billed to our electric utilities by transmission providers.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 46 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

(2)    Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses are substantially offset in margins and therefore do not have a significant impact on net income.

(3)    Represents costs associated with the We Power generation units, including operating and maintenance costs recognized by WE. During 2018, the amount also included the lease payments that were billed from We Power to WE and then recovered in WE's rates. We adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), effective January 1, 2019, which revised the previous guidance regarding the accounting for leases. As a result of this adoption, starting in 2019, lease expense related to the We Power leases with WE was no longer classified within other operation and maintenance, but was instead recorded as depreciation and amortization and interest expense, in accordance with Topic 842. The We Power leases do not impact our financial statements as all amounts associated with the leases are eliminated at the consolidated level.

During 2020, 2019, and 2018, $115.1 million, $134.8 million, and $485.3 million, respectively, of costs were billed to or incurred by WE related to the We Power generation units, with the difference in costs billed or incurred and expenses recognized, either deferred or deducted from the regulatory asset.

(4)    Represents additional transmission expense recorded in 2019 and 2018 associated with WE's flow through of tax benefits of its repair-related deferred tax liabilities starting in 2018 in accordance with a settlement agreement with the PSCW, to maintain certain regulatory asset balances at their December 31, 2017 levels. This decrease in expenses was offset in income taxes. Since WE's transmission regulatory asset was eliminated at December 31, 2019, there were no tax benefits used in 2020.

(5)    Represents additional transmission expense recorded in 2019 and 2018 associated with the May 2018 PSCW order requiring WE to use 80% of its current 2018 tax benefit, including the amortization associated with the revaluation of deferred taxes, to reduce its transmission regulatory asset balance. Since WE's transmission regulatory asset was eliminated at December 31, 2019, there were no tax benefits used in 2020.

(6)    See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information about our earnings sharing mechanisms.

The following tables provide information on delivered volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

----------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------- -------- ------------- -------- ----- ------- ---------
 Year Ended December 31
 MWh (in thousands) 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Electric Sales Volumes 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Customer class
Residential 11,523.8 10,918.6 11,195.0 605.2 (276.4)
Small commercial and industrial (1) 12,250.0 12,861.0 13,186.7 (611.0) (325.7)
Large commercial and industrial (1) 11,661.8 12,601.6 12,946.5 (939.8) (344.9)
Other 158.7 164.8 169.0 (6.1) (4.2)
Total retail (1) 35,594.3 36,546.0 37,497.2 (951.7) (951.2)
Wholesale 3,088.4 3,314.3 3,612.7 (225.9) (298.4)
Resale 6,189.9 6,006.0 6,019.3 183.9 (13.3)
Total sales in MWh (1) 44,872.6 45,866.3 47,129.2 (993.7) (1,262.9)

(1)    Includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in Michigan.

------------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ------- ------------- ------- ----- ------- ----
 Year Ended December 31
 Therms (in millions) 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Natural Gas Sales Volumes 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Customer class
Residential 1,090.8 1,195.6 1,131.1 (104.8) 64.5
Commercial and industrial 656.7 740.9 733.1 (84.2) 7.8
Total retail 1,747.5 1,936.5 1,864.2 (189.0) 72.3
Transport 1,357.7 1,426.1 1,411.5 (68.4) 14.6
Total sales in therms 3,105.2 3,362.6 3,275.7 (257.4) 86.9

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 47 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

---------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----- ----- ------ - ------ -
 Year Ended December 31
 Degree Days 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Weather 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
WE and WG (1)
Heating (6,618 normal) 6,092 6,835 6,685 (10.9) % 2.2 %
Cooling (737 normal) 938 727 929 29.0 % (21.7) %

WPS (2)
Heating (7,450 normal) 7,139 7,723 7,554 (7.6) % 2.2 %
Cooling (515 normal) 660 504 678 31.0 % (25.7) %

UMERC (3)
Heating (8,464 normal) 8,189 8,971 8,611 (8.7) % 4.2 %
Cooling (330 normal) 425 284 478 49.6 % (40.6) %

(1)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

(2)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from the Green Bay, Wisconsin weather station.

(3)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from the Iron Mountain, Michigan weather station.

2020 Compared with 2019

Electric Utility Margins

Electric utility margins at the Wisconsin segment increased $60.2 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The significant factors impacting the higher electric utility margins were:

•A $101.8 million increase in margins associated with the 2019 negative impact of WE's flow through of tax benefits of its repair-related deferred tax liabilities, in accordance with a settlement agreement with the PSCW to maintain certain regulatory assets at their December 31, 2017 levels. These tax benefits were no longer in effect for 2020. This increase in margins was offset in income taxes. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•An $8.2 million year-over-year positive impact from collections of fuel and purchased power costs compared with costs approved in rates. Under the Wisconsin fuel rules, the margins of our electric utilities are impacted by under- or over-collections of certain fuel and purchased power costs that are within a 2% price variance from the costs included in rates, and the remaining variance beyond the 2% price variance is deferred for future recovery or refund to customers.

These increases in margins were partially offset by:

•A $26.5 million decrease in margins from other revenues, primarily related to lower revenues from third party use of our assets.

•A $9.9 million net decrease in margins related to lower sales volumes, including the impact of weather. We recognized a $24.7 million net reduction in margins related to lower retail sales volumes driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. Sales volumes for our commercial and industrial customers decreased, primarily related to business interruptions and closings, while residential sales volumes increased. These changes in volumes were both driven, in large part, by a shelter-in-place order for the state of Wisconsin, which was in effect from March 25, 2020 through April 24, 2020, as well as the continued impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. This net decrease in margins was partially offset by a $14.8 million increase in margins related to warmer summer weather. As measured by cooling degree days, 2020 was 29.0% and 31.0% warmer than 2019 in the Milwaukee and Green Bay areas, respectively.

•A $5.6 million net decrease in margins related to the impact of the Wisconsin rate orders approved by the PSCW, effective January 1, 2020. This decrease in margins includes a $73.9 million negative impact related to unprotected excess deferred taxes, which we agreed to return to customers and is offset in income taxes.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 48 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins at the Wisconsin segment increased $22.8 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The most significant factor impacting the higher natural gas utility margins was a $53.6 million increase related to the impact of the Wisconsin rate orders approved by the PSCW, effective January 1, 2020. This increase in margins includes a $3.1 million negative impact related to unprotected excess deferred taxes, which we agreed to return to customers and is offset in income taxes.

This increase in margins was partially offset by a $35.9 million reduction in margins related to lower sales volumes, driven primarily by warmer winter weather during 2020. As measured by heating degree days, 2020 was 10.9% and 7.6% warmer than 2019 in the Milwaukee and Green Bay areas, respectively. In addition to the weather impact, the decrease in sales volumes for our commercial and industrial customers was also driven by business interruptions and closings related to, in large part, the shelter-in-place order issued by the state of Wisconsin, as well as the continued impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the Wisconsin segment decreased $60.2 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The significant factors impacting the decrease in operating expenses were:

•A $67.2 million decrease in transmission expense related to the flow through of tax repairs during 2019, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above. This decrease in transmission expense was offset in income taxes.

•A $65.3 million decrease in transmission expense associated with the May 2018 order from the PSCW related to our required treatment of the tax benefits associated with the Tax Legislation, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above. This decrease in transmission expense was offset by a corresponding decrease in margins.

•A $43.2 million decrease in electric and natural gas distribution expenses, driven by lower maintenance and storm restoration expense, as well as our focus on operating efficiency.

•A $39.9 million decrease in expense related to the earnings sharing mechanisms in place at our Wisconsin utilities. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•A $25.6 million decrease in benefit costs, primarily due to lower deferred compensation costs, stock-based compensation, and medical costs.

•A $22.0 million decrease in regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

•A $21.6 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense related to the We Power leases, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset by:

•A $99.9 million increase in transmission expense as approved in the PSCW's 2019 rate orders, which were effective January 1, 2020. See the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above for more information.

•A $57.5 million increase in depreciation and amortization, driven by assets being placed into service as we continue to execute on our capital plan as well as an increase related to the We Power leases.

•A $46.0 million net increase in other operation and maintenance expense related to our power plants, driven by changes to certain plant-related regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2019 Wisconsin rate orders. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the Wisconsin rate orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other operation and maintenance expense at our plants, driven by the retirement of PIPP in March 2019 and reduced operation of the OCPP.

•Costs incurred of $12.5 million related to facility damage resulting from a significant rain event in May 2020. See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information on the significant rain event.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 49 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the Wisconsin segment decreased $15.9 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by the impact from the 2019 deferral of costs that were offset in other income statement line items and had no impact on net income attributed to common shareholders. Partially offsetting this decrease was higher AFUDC–Equity due to continued capital investment.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Wisconsin segment decreased $10.7 million during 2020, compared with 2019, primarily due to lower interest rates on short-term debt and lower interest expense on finance lease liabilities. This decrease was partially offset by long-term debt issuances of $750.0 million during the second half of 2019.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Wisconsin segment increased $97.5 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The increase was primarily due to the $169.0 million benefit from the flow through of tax repairs during 2019 in connection with the 2017 Wisconsin rate settlement and an increase in pretax income. Partially offsetting these increases was a $77.0 million positive impact related to the 2020 amortization of the unprotected excess deferred tax benefits from the Tax Legislation in connection with the Wisconsin rate orders approved by the PSCW, effective January 1, 2020. The impacts due to the benefit from the flow through of tax repairs and the amortization of the unprotected excess deferred tax benefits from the Tax Legislation did not impact earnings as they were offset in operating income. See Note 16, Income Taxes, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

2019 Compared with 2018

Electric Utility Margins

Electric utility margins at the Wisconsin segment decreased $45.1 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The significant factors impacting the lower electric utility margins were:

•A $54.1 million decrease related to lower sales volumes, primarily driven by cooler summer weather during 2019 compared with 2018. As measured by cooling degree days, 2019 was 21.7% and 25.7% cooler than 2018 in the Milwaukee and Green Bay areas, respectively.

•A $13.7 million decrease in margins associated with WE's flow through of tax benefits of its repair-related deferred tax liabilities starting in 2018 in accordance with a settlement agreement with the PSCW to maintain certain regulatory assets at their December 31, 2017 levels. This decrease in margins was offset in income taxes. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

•A $6.8 million decrease in margins related to savings from the Tax Legislation that we are required to return to customers through bill credits or reductions in other regulatory assets. This decrease in margins did not impact net income as it was offset by the net impact of a $22.0 million decrease in income taxes and a $15.2 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. We received the PSCW order in May 2018, which required WPS to use 40% of its 2018 and 2019 tax benefits associated with the Tax Legislation to reduce certain regulatory assets. See Note 16, Income Taxes, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

These decreases in margins were partially offset by:

•A $16.3 million increase in margins related to the iron ore mine located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Prior to the transfer of the mine as a full requirements customer of WE to UMERC as of April 1, 2019, the margin from the mine was being deferred for the benefit of Wisconsin retail electric customers, as ordered by the PSCW. On March 31, 2019 when the new natural gas-fired generation in the Upper Peninsula began commercial operation, a new 20 year agreement with Tilden became effective under which Tilden began purchasing electric power from UMERC. Half of the cost of the natural gas-fired generation is being recovered from Tilden under this agreement.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 50 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•A $5.3 million increase in margins related to a net decrease in fuel and purchased power costs driven by the commercial operation of UMERC's new natural gas-fired generation in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan on March 31, 2019. UMERC previously met its market obligations through PPAs.

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins at the Wisconsin segment increased $17.8 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The most significant factor impacting the higher natural gas utility margins was higher sales volumes, due in part to colder winter weather, customer growth, and higher use per residential customer during 2019, compared with 2018. As measured by heating degree days, 2019 was 2.2% colder than 2018 in the Milwaukee and Green Bay areas.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the Wisconsin segment decreased $416.7 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The Wisconsin segment experienced lower overall operating expenses related to efficiencies and effective cost control. The other significant factors impacting the decrease in operating expenses during 2019, compared with 2018, were:

•A $363.3 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense related to the We Power leases, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

•A $107.6 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense related to our power plants, driven by lower maintenance and labor costs associated with our 2019 and 2018 plant retirements, and increases to certain plant-related regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2019 Wisconsin rate orders. Plant retirements included the March 2019 retirement of the PIPP as well as the 2018 retirements of the Pleasant Prairie power plant, Edgewater Unit 4, and Pulliam Units 7 and 8. See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information on the plant retirements. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the Wisconsin rate orders.

•A $10.6 million decrease in transmission expense related to the flow through of tax repairs during 2019, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above. This decrease in transmission expense was offset in income taxes.

•A $6.0 million decrease in expense related to the earnings sharing mechanisms in place at our Wisconsin utilities. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset by:

•A $70.4 million increase in depreciation and amortization, driven by assets being placed into service as we continue to execute on our capital plan as well as an increase related to the We Power leases.

•A $16.4 million increase in storm restoration expense during 2019.

•A $16.3 million net increase in benefit costs, primarily related to higher deferred compensation costs during 2019.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the Wisconsin segment increased $3.3 million during 2019, compared with 2018, driven by higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Wisconsin segment increased $371.3 million during 2019, compared with 2018, primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). Effective January 1, 2019, minimum lease payments were no longer classified within cost of sales or other operation and maintenance, but were instead recorded as a component of depreciation and amortization and interest expense in accordance with Topic 842. As a result of the adoption, for the year ended December 31, 2019, $350.9 million of minimum lease payments were recorded as interest expense on finance lease liabilities. The remaining increase was driven by long-term debt issuances of $700.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2018 and $750.0 million during the second half of 2019.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 51 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Wisconsin segment decreased $11.5 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The decrease was driven by a $22.0 million positive impact from the 2018 PSCW order addressing the benefits associated with the Tax Legislation and a $3.1 million increase in the benefit from the flow through of tax repairs in connection with the 2017 Wisconsin rate settlement. These items did not impact earnings as they were offset in operating income. Partially offsetting these decreases to income tax expense was an increase in pretax income.

Illinois Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The Illinois segment's contribution to net income attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $203.5 million, representing a $33.2 million, or 19.5%, increase over the prior year. The increase was driven by lower operation and maintenance expense and PGL's continued capital investment in the SMP project under its QIP rider. Lower natural gas distribution maintenance costs, lower customer service expenses, and lower benefit costs drove the decrease in operation and maintenance expense during 2020.

Since the majority of PGL and NSG customers use natural gas for heating, net income attributed to common shareholders is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months.

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------- ------------- ----- ------------- ------- ----- ----- ------- ------ ------ - ------
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Natural gas revenues $ 1,321.9 $ 1,357.1 $ 1,400.0 $ (35.2) $ (42.9)
Cost of natural gas sold 330.9 401.4 480.5 70.5 79.1
Total natural gas margins 991.0 955.7 919.5 35.3 36.2

Other operation and maintenance 435.4 461.1 472.3 25.7 11.2
Depreciation and amortization 196.7 181.3 170.3 (15.4) (11.0)
Property and revenue taxes 28.1 21.4 21.1 (6.7) (0.3)
Operating income 330.8 291.9 255.8 38.9 36.1

Other income (expense), net 2.3 (2.4) (5.7) 4.7 3.3
Interest expense 63.5 59.0 51.2 (4.5) (7.8)
Income before income taxes 269.6 230.5 198.9 39.1 31.6

Income tax expense 66.1 60.2 51.8 (5.9) (8.4)

Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 203.5 $ 170.3 $ 147.1 $ 33.2 $ 23.2

The following table shows a breakdown of other operation and maintenance:

-------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ------------- ----- ------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---- - ----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Operation and maintenance not included in the line items below $ 332.1 $ 362.2 $ 372.9 $ 30.1 $ 10.7
Riders (1) 101.4 97.5 95.3 (3.9) (2.2)
Regulatory amortizations (1) (2.6) (1.5) (1.4) 1.1 0.1
Other 4.5 2.9 5.5 (1.6) 2.6
Total other operation and maintenance $ 435.4 $ 461.1 $ 472.3 $ 25.7 $ 11.2

(1)    These riders and regulatory amortizations are substantially offset in margins and therefore do not have a significant impact on net income.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 52 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
The following tables provide information on delivered sales volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

------------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ------- ------------- ------- ----- ------- -----
 Year Ended December 31
 Therms (in millions) 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Natural Gas Sales Volumes 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Customer Class
Residential 832.6 904.8 896.2 (72.2) 8.6
Commercial and industrial 326.1 368.6 358.3 (42.5) 10.3
Total retail 1,158.7 1,273.4 1,254.5 (114.7) 18.9
Transport 785.7 896.6 905.1 (110.9) (8.5)
Total sales in therms 1,944.4 2,170.0 2,159.6 (225.6) 10.4

---------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----- ----- ------ - --- -
 Year Ended December 31
 Degree Days 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Weather (1) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Heating (6,195 normal) 5,597 6,479 6,327 (13.6) % 2.4 %

(1)    Normal heating degree days are based on a 12-year moving average of monthly temperatures from Chicago's O'Hare Airport.

2020 Compared with 2019

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins at the Illinois segment, net of the $3.9 million impact of the riders referenced in the table above, increased $31.4 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The increase in margins was primarily driven by higher revenues at PGL due to continued capital investment in the SMP project. PGL currently recovers the costs related to the SMP through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an ICC approved QIP rider, which is in effect through 2023. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the Illinois segment decreased $7.5 million, net of the impact of the riders referenced in the table above, during 2020, compared with 2019. The significant factors impacting the decrease in operating expenses were:

•A $13.6 million decrease in natural gas distribution maintenance costs, which reflects the benefit of warmer than normal winter weather in 2020 and the timing of performing certain services.

•A $7.1 million decrease in benefit costs, primarily due to lower deferred compensation costs, pension settlement costs, severance costs, and stock-based compensation.

•A $6.5 million decrease in customer service expenses, primarily due to lower call volumes and metering costs.

These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset by:

•A $15.4 million increase in depreciation expense, primarily driven by PGL's continued capital investment in the SMP project.

•A $6.7 million increase in property and revenue taxes driven by a $3.0 million increase in property taxes and a $2.9 million increase in the invested capital tax related to higher plant placed in service during 2020, compared to 2019.

Other Income (Expense), Net

The Illinois segment had other income, net of $2.3 million during 2020, compared with $2.4 million of other expense, net in 2019. The $4.7 million year-over-year increase in other income was driven by net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs in 2020, compared with net expenses in 2019. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 53 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Illinois segment increased $4.5 million during 2020, compared with 2019, primarily due to higher long-term debt balances. This increase in debt balances was primarily related to continued capital investments and was partially offset by lower interest rates on short-term debt.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Illinois segment increased $5.9 million during 2020, compared with 2019, driven by an increase in pretax income, partially offset by a $6.3 million change in unrecognized tax benefits in 2020. See Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

2019 Compared with 2018

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins at the Illinois segment, net of the $2.2 million impact of the riders referenced in the table above, increased $34.0 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The increase was primarily driven by higher revenues at PGL due to continued capital investment in the SMP project. PGL currently recovers the costs related to the SMP through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an ICC approved QIP rider, which is in effect through 2023. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the Illinois segment decreased $2.1 million, net of the impact of the riders referenced in the table above, during 2019, compared with 2018. The significant factor impacting the decrease in operating expenses was a $23.2 million decrease in natural gas maintenance costs related to our Illinois utilities’ distribution systems.

This decrease in other operating expenses was partially offset by:

•An $11.0 million increase in depreciation and amortization, primarily driven by PGL's continued capital investment in the SMP project.

•An $8.4 million increase in benefit costs, primarily related to higher deferred compensation costs in 2019.

Other Expense, Net

Other expense, net at the Illinois segment decreased $3.3 million during 2019, compared with 2018, driven by lower costs from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Illinois segment increased $7.8 million during 2019, compared with 2018, driven by higher long-term debt balances. This increase in debt balances was primarily related to continued capital investments.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Illinois segment increased $8.4 million during 2019, compared with 2018, driven by an increase in pretax income.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 54 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Other States Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The other states segment's contribution to net income attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $39.0 million, representing a $4.2 million, or 9.7%, decrease over the prior year. The decrease was driven by lower natural gas margins due to the negative impact warmer winter weather and COVID-19 had on 2020 sales volumes, as well as an increase in depreciation and amortization. These decreases in net income were partially offset by lower operating expense in 2020 due to effective cost control.

Since the majority of MERC and MGU customers use natural gas for heating, net income attributed to common shareholders is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months.

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ------------- ----- ------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ------ - ------
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Natural gas revenues $ 384.1 $ 426.0 $ 438.2 $ (41.9) $ (12.2)
Cost of natural gas sold 184.8 217.5 232.8 32.7 15.3
Total natural gas margins 199.3 208.5 205.4 (9.2) 3.1

Other operation and maintenance 87.0 98.5 101.0 11.5 2.5
Depreciation and amortization 33.5 27.5 24.1 (6.0) (3.4)
Property and revenue taxes 17.2 17.2 11.5 — (5.7)
Operating income 61.6 65.3 68.8 (3.7) (3.5)

Other income (expense), net 0.7 — (0.1) 0.7 0.1
Interest expense 10.2 8.5 8.7 (1.7) 0.2
Income before income taxes 52.1 56.8 60.0 (4.7) (3.2)

Income tax expense 13.1 13.6 15.9 0.5 2.3
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 39.0 $ 43.2 $ 44.1 $ (4.2) $ (0.9)

The following table shows a breakdown of other operation and maintenance:

------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ---- ------------- ---- ------------- ---- ----- ----- ----- --- ---- - -----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Operation and maintenance not included in line items below $ 67.9 $ 76.4 $ 76.1 $ 8.5 $ (0.3)
Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses (1) 18.9 22.0 24.8 3.1 2.8
Other 0.2 0.1 0.1 (0.1) —
Total other operation and maintenance $ 87.0 $ 98.5 $ 101.0 $ 11.5 $ 2.5

(1)    Regulatory amortizations and other pass through expenses are substantially offset in margins and therefore do not have a significant impact on net income.

The following tables provide information on delivered volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

------------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ------- ------------- ------- ----- ------- ----
 Year Ended December 31
 Therms (in millions) 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Natural Gas Sales Volumes 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Customer Class
Residential 309.6 345.2 336.1 (35.6) 9.1
Commercial and industrial 200.5 238.2 218.5 (37.7) 19.7
Total retail 510.1 583.4 554.6 (73.3) 28.8
Transport 728.5 777.1 738.7 (48.6) 38.4
Total sales in therms 1,238.6 1,360.5 1,293.3 (121.9) 67.2

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 55 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

---------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----- ----- ----- - ----- -
 Year Ended December 31
 Degree Days 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Weather (1) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
MERC
Heating (8,030 normal) 7,896 8,728 8,490 (9.5) % 2.8 %

MGU
Heating (6,259 normal) 5,952 6,347 6,368 (6.2) % (0.3) %

(1)    Normal heating degree days for MERC and MGU are based on a 20-year moving average and 15-year moving average, respectively, of monthly temperatures from various weather stations throughout their respective territories.

2020 Compared with 2019

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins decreased $9.2 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower sales volumes as a result of warmer than normal winter weather in 2020 and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by an increase in revenues related to MERC's GUIC rider. The GUIC rider allows MERC to recover previously approved GUIC that were incurred to replace or modify natural gas facilities to the extent the work is required by state, federal, or other government agencies and exceeds the costs included in base rates. MERC began recognizing revenue under the GUIC rider in the second quarter of 2019.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the other states segment decreased $5.5 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The decrease in operating expenses was driven by effective cost control, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the other states segment increased $1.7 million during 2020, compared with 2019, primarily due to MERC and MGU's long-term debt issuances in April 2020 of $50.0 million and $60.0 million, respectively. This increase in debt balances was primarily related to continued capital investments.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the other states segment decreased $0.5 million during 2020, compared with 2019, related to a decrease in pretax income.

2019 Compared with 2018

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins increased $3.1 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The increase was primarily driven by higher sales volumes as a result of colder weather and customer growth, capital investment in natural gas utility infrastructure, and MERC recognizing revenue under the GUIC rider. These increases were partially offset by volumetric bill credits MGU is required to provide customers under a MPUC order addressing the effects of the Tax Legislation to return tax savings from the ruling. See Note 16, Income Taxes, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the other states segment increased $6.6 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The increase in operating expenses was partially driven by lower property and revenue taxes in 2018 resulting from a favorable judgment that MERC received related to a property tax matter. Because property taxes were under-recovered from rate payers in prior years, MERC received $4.8 million of the judgment, with the remaining amount being passed back to customers through the property tax tracker.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 56 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
The increase was also driven by a $2.1 million positive impact on 2018 depreciation and amortization expense from a depreciation study approved by the MPUC in the second quarter of 2018. These rates were effective retroactively to January 2017.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the other states segment decreased $2.3 million during 2019, compared with 2018, related to a decrease in pretax income.

Electric Transmission Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ------------- ------------- ---- ----- ----- ---- - ---- - ---
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 112.6 $ 87.4 $ 82.8 $ 25.2 $ 4.6

2020 Compared with 2019

Net income attributed to common shareholders at our electric transmission segment increased $25.2 million during 2020, compared with 2019, driven by a $48.2 million increase in equity earnings from transmission affiliates, primarily due to the impacts of FERC orders issued in November 2019 and May 2020 addressing complaints related to ATC's ROE. The FERC order issued in November 2019 reduced the base ROE that ATC was allowed to collect, which resulted in a $19.3 million decrease in ATC's earnings during 2019. The FERC order issued in May 2020 made additional revisions to the methodology used to calculate the base ROE, which resulted in an increase in the base ROE that ATC is allowed to collect, retroactive to November 2013, and increased ATC's earnings by $14.6 million during 2020. For further discussion of the FERC orders, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Other Matters – American Transmission Company Allowed Return on Equity Complaints. Continued capital investment by ATC also contributed to the higher equity earnings.

The increase in equity earnings from transmission affiliates was partially offset by:

•A $16.6 million increase in income tax expense during 2020, compared with 2019, driven by a $10.9 million negative impact related to an increase in pretax income and changes in amortization of federal excess deferred income taxes.

•A $6.3 million increase in interest expense, due to ATC Holding's issuance of $235.0 million of long-term debt in September 2019.

2019 Compared with 2018

Net income attributed to common shareholders at our electric transmission segment increased $4.6 million during 2019, compared with 2018, driven by a $26.6 million decrease in income tax expense. The decrease in income tax expense was driven by a $12.3 million tax basis adjustment related to the remeasurement of deferred income taxes in 2018 and a $6.1 million favorable impact of lower pretax income in 2019. Also contributing to the decrease was a $7.8 million decrease related to the change in the tax rates at the segment level resulting from the transfer of ownership in the ATC investment between our subsidiaries. The decrease in income tax expense related to the change in tax rates was offset in the corporate and other segment and, as a result, had no effect on consolidated net income attributed to common shareholders.

The increase in earnings from lower income tax expense was partially offset by:

•A $12.8 million increase in interest expense, due to ATC Holding's issuance of $235.0 million and $240.0 million of long-term debt in September 2019 and December 2018, respectively.

•A $9.1 million decrease in equity earnings from transmission affiliates, primarily related to the FERC order issued in November 2019 that addressed complaints related to ATC's allowed ROE, which resulted in a $19.3 million decrease in ATC's earnings. Increased earnings from continued capital investment partially offset the negative impact from the FERC order.

Non-Utility Energy Infrastructure Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ------------- ------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ---- - ----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 260.8 $ 246.0 $ 228.4 $ 14.8 $ 17.6

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 57 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

2020 Compared with 2019

Net income attributed to common shareholders increased $14.8 million during 2020, compared with 2019, primarily related to a $15.2 million decrease in income tax expense during 2020, compared to 2019, driven by wind PTCs generated by our Coyote Ridge wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2019. See Note 2, Acquisitions, and Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

2019 Compared with 2018

Net income attributed to common shareholders increased $17.6 million, primarily related to a $14.0 million decrease in income tax expense during 2019, compared to 2018, driven by wind PTCs recognized on the three wind parks acquired in 2018 and 2019. Also contributing to the increase in earnings was a $4.8 million increase in operating income at We Power, driven by higher revenues in connection with capital additions to the plants We Power owns and leases to WE. Partially offsetting these increases were $2.4 million of operating losses at the Upstream and Bishop Hill III wind parks. The majority of earnings from our ownership interests in the wind parks come in the form of the wind PTCs discussed previously.

Corporate and Other Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ------- ------------- ------------- ------ ----- ----- ------ - ------ - -----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Net loss attributed to common shareholders $ (106.4) $ (62.8) $ (60.1) $ (43.6) $ (2.7)

2020 Compared with 2019

The net loss attributed to common shareholders at the corporate and other segment increased $43.6 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The significant factors impacting the higher net loss were:

•A $38.4 million loss related to the payment of make-whole premiums during 2020 due to the redemption of $1,030.0 million of long-term debt prior to maturity.

•A $9.0 million higher net operating loss at Wispark, driven by reductions in the carrying value of certain real estate-related investments during 2020 as market and other factors indicated the assets may not be fully recoverable.

•An $8.5 million decrease in other income, net due to lower net gains from investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2020. These investment gains partially offset benefits costs related to deferred compensation, which are included in other operation and maintenance expense in our operating segments. See Note 17, Fair Value Measurements, for more information on our investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust.

•A $5.2 million decrease in interest income from subsidiaries in our operating segments. The decrease was driven by lower interest income from UMERC, as UMERC used the proceeds from its long-term debt issuance in August 2019 to redeem its outstanding long-term debt with WEC Energy Group.

These increases in the net loss attributed to common shareholders were partially offset by:

•A $16.9 million decrease in interest expense, driven by the issuance of new debt in 2020 with lower interest rates than the debt retired during the year. Also contributing to the decrease was lower interest rates on our short-term and variable-rate long-term debt.

•A $1.4 million increase in income tax benefits, driven by an $11.6 million favorable impact from a higher pre-tax loss. This increase in income tax benefits was offset by an $8.2 million change in unrecognized tax benefits during 2020, compared with 2019, and a $3.5 million decrease in excess tax benefits recognized related to stock option exercises during 2020, compared to 2019. See Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 58 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
2019 Compared with 2018

The net loss attributed to common shareholders at the corporate and other segment increased $2.7 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The significant factors impacting the higher net loss were:

•A $15.1 million increase in interest expense, primarily driven by higher long-term debt balances in 2019. The increase in debt balances was primarily related to continued capital investments across our segments.

•A $12.2 million increase in the net operating loss, driven by a transfer of assets from WBS to our regulated utilities in 2018. As a result of these transfers, the return on these assets is now recognized within our regulated utility operations. Also contributing to the increase in the net operating loss was a gain recorded in 2018 that related to a previous sale of a legacy business.

•A $1.2 million decrease in income tax benefits, driven by a $7.8 million benefit related to the change in the tax rates at the segment level resulting from the transfer of ownership of the ATC investment between our subsidiaries. This decrease was offset in the electric transmission segment and, as a result, had no effect on consolidated net income attributed to common shareholders. Also contributing to the decrease was $2.3 million related to year-over-year changes associated with state net operating losses. These decreases in income tax benefits were substantially offset by a $9.9 million increase in excess tax benefits recognized related to stock option exercises during 2019, compared to 2018.

These increases in the net loss attributed to common shareholders were largely offset by a $23.0 million increase in other income, net due to net gains from investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2019, compared with net losses during 2018.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The following discussion and analysis of our Liquidity and Capital Resources includes comparisons of our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020 with the year ended December 31, 2019. For a similar discussion that compares our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2019 with the year ended December 31, 2018, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Cash Flows

The following table summarizes our cash flows during the years ended December 31:

--------------------------- --------- ------- ---- --------- ------------------------ ------- ------- - -------
(in millions) 2020 2019 Change in 2020 Over 2019
Cash provided by (used in):
Operating activities $ 2,196.0 $ 2,345.5 $ (149.5)
Investing activities (2,806.8) (2,494.9) (311.9)
Financing activities 601.1 85.6 515.5

Operating Activities

2020 Compared with 2019

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $149.5 million during 2020, compared with 2019, driven by:

•A $209.3 million decrease in cash related to lower overall collections from customers, primarily due to business interruptions and closings during the COVID-19 pandemic and a moratorium on disconnections causing an increase in past due balances, as well as lower sales volumes driven by warmer winter weather during 2020, compared with 2019.

•A $52.8 million net decrease in cash related to $27.9 million of cash paid for income taxes during 2020, compared with $24.9 million of cash received for income taxes during 2019. This decrease in cash was primarily due to alternative minimum tax credits that were refunded to us during 2019.

•A $47.3 million decrease in cash related to an increase in contributions and payments related to pension and OPEB plans during 2020, compared with 2019.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 59 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

These decreases in net cash provided by operating activities were partially offset by:

•A $109.0 million increase in cash related to lower payments for fuel used at our plants during 2020, compared with 2019, driven by lower natural gas costs. The average per-unit cost of natural gas decreased 9.7% during during 2020, compared with 2019. Lower fuel costs were also driven by lower sales volumes due to warmer winter weather during 2020 as well as business interruptions and closings during the COVID-19 pandemic.

•A $33.5 million increase in cash due to lower collateral requirements, driven by an increase in the fair value of our natural gas derivative assets during 2020, compared with 2019.

•A $22.8 million increase in cash due to higher distributions from ATC during 2020, compared with 2019.

Investing Activities

2020 Compared with 2019

Net cash used in investing activities increased $311.9 million during 2020, compared with 2019, driven by:

•The acquisition of a 90% ownership interest in Blooming Grove in December 2020 for $364.6 million, which is net of restricted cash acquired of $24.1 million. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

•The acquisition of an 85% ownership interest in Tatanka Ridge in December 2020 for $239.9 million. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

•A $31.3 million decrease in cash related to lower reimbursements from ATC for construction costs during 2020, compared with 2019. See Note 21, Investment in Transmission Affiliates, for more information.

•A $17.3 million decrease in proceeds received from the sale of assets and businesses during 2020, compared with 2019. See Note 3, Dispositions, for more information.

These increases in net cash used in investing activities were partially offset by:

•The acquisition of an 80% ownership interest in Upstream in January 2019 for $268.2 million, which is net of cash and restricted cash acquired of $9.2 million. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

•A $31.4 million increase in cash related to lower capital contributions to transmission affiliates during 2020, compared with 2019. See Note 21, Investment in Transmission Affiliates, for more information.

•A $23.2 million increase in cash related to insurance proceeds received for property damage during 2020. See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information.

•A $22.0 million decrease in cash paid for capital expenditures during 2020, compared with 2019, which is discussed in more detail below.

•An $18.2 million net increase in restricted cash during 2020, compared with 2019, due to a $56.0 million increase in the proceeds received from the sale of investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust, partially offset by $37.8 million in purchases of investments held in the rabbi trust in 2020.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 60 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures by segment for the years ended December 31 were as follows:

--------------------------------- ----- ------- ---- ----- ------------------------ ------- ------ - ------
Reportable Segment(in millions) 2020 2019 Change in 2020 Over 2019
Wisconsin $ 1,382.4 $ 1,378.6 $ 3.8
Illinois 652.7 624.9 27.8
Other states 144.3 109.1 35.2
Non-utility energy infrastructure 26.3 121.7 (95.4)
Corporate and other 33.1 26.5 6.6
Total capital expenditures $ 2,238.8 $ 2,260.8 $ (22.0)

2020 Compared with 2019

The increase in cash paid for capital expenditures at the Wisconsin segment during 2020, compared with 2019, was primarily driven by an increase in capital expenditures related to Badger Hollow I, Badger Hollow II, the Solar Now program, and upgrades to WE's natural gas distribution system during 2020. These increases in cash paid for capital expenditures were partially offset by decreased capital expenditures related to Two Creeks, the construction of UMERC's natural gas-fired generation facilities in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, upgrades to WG's natural gas distribution system, upgrades of automated meter reading devices, and various other software projects during 2020, compared with 2019.

The increase in cash paid for capital expenditures at the Illinois segment during 2020, compared with 2019, was driven by upgrades of automated meter reading devices, a higher number of meter replacements, and upgrades at the Manlove Gas Storage Field during 2020. These increases in cash paid for capital expenditures were partially offset by decreased capital expenditures on facilities projects in 2020.

The increase in cash paid for capital expenditures at the other states segment during 2020, compared with 2019, was primarily driven by MERC and MGU's installation of automated meter reading devices and a higher number of meter replacements during 2020. These increases in cash paid for capital expenditures were partially offset by decreased capital expenditures related to an expansion of MERC's gas distribution system during 2019.

The decrease in cash paid for capital expenditures at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment during 2020, compared with 2019, was primarily driven by the construction of Coyote Ridge, most of which occurred in 2019 subsequent to its acquisition, and projects completed at the ERGS during 2019. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information. These decreases in cash paid for capital expenditures were partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures related to a compressor project for Bluewater during 2020.

See Capital Resources and Requirements – Capital Requirements – Capital Expenditures and Significant Capital Projects below for more information.

Financing Activities

2020 Compared with 2019

Net cash provided by financing activities increased $515.5 million during 2020, compared with 2019, driven by:

•A $1,215.4 million increase in cash due to $606.1 million of net borrowings of commercial paper during 2020, compared with $609.3 million of net repayments of commercial paper during 2019.

•A $478.6 million increase in cash due to higher issuances of long-term debt during 2020, compared with 2019.

•A $340.0 million increase in cash due to the issuance of a 364-day term loan during 2020, to enhance our liquidity position in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Coronavirus Disease – 2019, for additional information.

•A $40.9 million increase in cash due to a decrease in the number and cost of shares of our common stock purchased during 2020, compared with 2019, to satisfy requirements of our stock-based compensation plans.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 61 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

These increases in net cash provided by financing activities were partially offset by:

•A $1,406.9 million decrease in cash related to higher long-term debt repayments during 2020, compared with 2019.

•A $53.5 million decrease in cash due to higher dividends paid on our common stock during 2020, compared with 2019. In January 2020, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by $0.0425 per share (7.2%) effective with the March 2020 dividend payment.

•A $43.3 million decrease in cash due to the payment of make-whole premiums related to debt redemptions and higher issuance costs during 2020, compared with 2019.

•The acquisition of an additional 10% ownership interest in Upstream in April 2020 for $31.0 million. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

•A $23.2 million decrease in cash from stock options exercised during 2020, compared with 2019.

Significant Financing Activities

For more information on our financing activities, see Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, and Note 14, Long-Term Debt.

Capital Resources and Requirements

Capital Resources

Liquidity

We anticipate meeting our capital requirements for our existing operations through internally generated funds and short-term borrowings, supplemented by the issuance of intermediate or long-term debt securities, depending on market conditions and other factors.

We currently have access to the capital markets and have been able to generate funds both internally and externally to meet our capital requirements. Our ability to attract the necessary financial capital at reasonable terms is critical to our overall strategic plan. We currently believe that we have adequate capacity to fund our operations for the foreseeable future through our existing borrowing arrangements, access to capital markets, and internally generated cash. See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Coronavirus Disease – 2019, for additional information on the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.

WEC Energy Group, WE, WPS, WG, and PGL maintain bank back-up credit facilities, which provide liquidity support for each company's obligations with respect to commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. We review our bank back-up credit facility needs on an ongoing basis and expect to be able to maintain adequate credit facilities to support our operations. In March 2020, in order to enhance our liquidity position in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing volatility in the commercial paper market, WEC Energy Group entered into a $340 million 364-day term loan, which was used to pay down commercial paper. We expect to have sufficient liquidity to repay the term loan upon its maturity in March 2021. See Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, for more information about these credit agreements.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 62 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
The following table shows our capitalization structure as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, as well as an adjusted capitalization structure that we believe is consistent with how a majority of the rating agencies currently view our 2007 Junior Notes:

------------------------------------------ -------- -------- -------- -------- ------ -------- -------- - - -------- - - --------
 2020 2019
(in millions) Actual Adjusted Actual Adjusted
Common shareholders' equity $ 10,469.7 $ 10,719.7 $ 10,113.4 $ 10,363.4
Preferred stock of subsidiary 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4
Long-term debt (including current portion) 12,513.9 12,263.9 11,904.2 11,654.2
Short-term debt 1,776.9 1,776.9 830.8 830.8
Total capitalization $ 24,790.9 $ 24,790.9 $ 22,878.8 $ 22,878.8

Total debt $ 14,290.8 $ 14,040.8 $ 12,735.0 $ 12,485.0

Ratio of debt to total capitalization 57.6 % 56.6 % 55.7 % 54.6 %

Included in long-term debt on our balance sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, is $500.0 million principal amount of the 2007 Junior Notes. The adjusted presentation attributes $250.0 million of the 2007 Junior Notes to common shareholders' equity and $250.0 million to long-term debt.

The adjusted presentation of our consolidated capitalization structure is included as a complement to our capitalization structure presented in accordance with GAAP. Management evaluates and manages our capitalization structure, including our total debt to total capitalization ratio, using the GAAP calculation as adjusted to reflect the treatment of the 2007 Junior Notes by the majority of rating agencies. Therefore, we believe the non-GAAP adjusted presentation reflecting this treatment is useful and relevant to investors in understanding how management and the rating agencies evaluate our capitalization structure.

For a summary of the interest rates, maturity, and amounts of long-term debt outstanding on a consolidated basis, see Note 14, Long-Term Debt.

As described in Note 11, Common Equity, certain restrictions exist on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us. We do not expect these restrictions to have any material effect on our operations or ability to meet our cash obligations.

At December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all covenants related to outstanding short-term and long-term debt. We expect to be in compliance with all such debt covenants for the foreseeable future. See Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, and Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information.

Working Capital

As of December 31, 2020, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $2,065.1 million. We do not expect this to have any impact on our liquidity since we believe we have adequate back-up lines of credit in place for our ongoing operations. We also believe that we can access the capital markets to finance our construction programs and to refinance current maturities of long-term debt, if necessary.

Credit Rating Risk

We do not have any credit agreements that would require material changes in payment schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. However, we have certain agreements in the form of commodity contracts and employee benefit plans that could require collateral or a termination payment in the event of a credit rating change to below BBB- at S&P Global Ratings, a division of S&P Global Inc., and/or Baa3 at Moody's Investors Service, Inc. We also have other commodity contracts that, in the event of a credit rating downgrade, could result in a reduction of our unsecured credit granted by counterparties.

In addition, access to capital markets at a reasonable cost is determined in large part by credit quality. Any credit ratings downgrade could impact our ability to access capital markets.

Subject to other factors affecting the credit markets as a whole, we believe our current ratings should provide a significant degree of flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. However, these security ratings reflect the views of the rating agency only. An explanation of the significance of these ratings may be obtained from the rating agency. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. Any rating can be revised upward or downward or withdrawn at any time by a rating agency.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 63 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

If we are unable to successfully take actions to continue to manage any impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, the credit rating agencies could place our or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings on negative outlook or downgrade our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings. Any such actions by credit rating agencies may make it more difficult and costly for us and our subsidiaries to issue future debt securities and certain other types of financing and could increase borrowing costs under our and our subsidiaries’ credit facilities.

See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Coronavirus Disease – 2019, for additional information.

Capital Requirements

Contractual Obligations

We have the following contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2020:

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- -------- ---------------- ------- --------- ------- --------- ----------------- ------- ------- ------- - --------
 Payments Due by Period (1)
(in millions) Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years
Long-term debt obligations (2) $ 20,566.7 $ 1,238.8 $ 1,731.3 $ 2,591.2 $ 15,005.4
Finance lease obligations (3) 151.1 10.6 7.0 3.2 130.3
Operating lease obligations (4) 46.0 4.5 8.9 8.1 24.5
Energy and transportation purchase obligations (5) 10,979.4 1,179.6 2,127.1 1,613.6 6,059.1
Purchase orders (6) 849.2 430.6 280.3 67.8 70.5
Pension and OPEB funding obligations (7) 43.4 13.7 29.7 — —

Total contractual obligations $ 32,635.8 $ 2,877.8 $ 4,184.3 $ 4,283.9 $ 21,289.8

(1)    The amounts included in the table are calculated using current market prices, forward curves, and other estimates.

(2)    Principal and interest payments on long-term debt (excluding finance lease obligations). The interest due on our variable rate debt is based on the interest rates that were in effect on December 31, 2020.

(3)    Finance lease obligations for power purchase commitments and land leases related to solar projects. This amount does not include We Power leases to WE which are eliminated upon consolidation. See Note 15, Leases, for more information.

(4)    Operating lease obligations for office space, land, and rail car leases. See Note 15, Leases, for more information.

(5)    Energy and transportation purchase obligations under various contracts for the procurement of fuel, power, gas supply, and associated transportation related to utility and non-utility operations.

(6)    Purchase obligations related to normal business operations, information technology, and other services. Also includes construction obligations related to Badger Hollow I and Badger Hollow II.

(7)    Obligations for pension and OPEB plans cannot reasonably be estimated beyond 2023.

The table above does not include liabilities related to the accounting treatment for uncertainty in income taxes because we are not able to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to the amount and period of related future payments at this time. For additional information regarding these liabilities, refer to Note 16, Income Taxes.

The table above also does not reflect estimated future payments related to the manufactured gas plant remediation liability of $532.9 million at December 31, 2020, as the amount and timing of payments are uncertain. We expect to incur costs annually to remediate these sites. See Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, for more information about environmental liabilities.

AROs in the amount of $513.5 million are not included in the above table. Settlement of these liabilities cannot be determined with certainty, but we believe the majority of these liabilities will be settled in more than five years. See Note 9, Asset Retirement Obligations, for more information.

Obligations for utility operations have historically been included as part of the rate-making process and therefore are generally recoverable from customers.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 64 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Significant Capital Projects

We have several capital projects that will require significant capital expenditures over the next three years and beyond. All projected capital requirements are subject to periodic review and may vary significantly from estimates, depending on a number of factors. These factors include environmental requirements, regulatory restraints and requirements, changes in tax laws and regulations, acquisition and development opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, and the COVID-19 pandemic. Our estimated capital expenditures and acquisitions for the next three years are as follows:

--------------------------------- ----- ------- ---- ----- ---- ------- ----- - -------
(in millions) 2021 2022 2023
Wisconsin $ 1,763.4 $ 1,844.6 $ 2,070.2
Illinois 573.9 581.8 660.9
Other states 98.4 106.8 92.5
Non-utility energy infrastructure 640.0 504.9 434.1
Corporate and other 17.1 10.1 3.7
Total $ 3,092.8 $ 3,048.2 $ 3,261.4

WE, WPS, and WG continue to upgrade their electric and natural gas distribution systems to enhance reliability. These upgrades include the AMI program. AMI is an integrated system of smart meters, communication networks, and data management systems that enable two-way communication between utilities and customers. WPS is also continuing work on the System Modernization and Reliability Project. This project includes modernizing parts of its electric distribution system, including burying or upgrading lines. The project focuses on constructing facilities to improve the reliability of electric service WPS provides to its customers. In 2021, WPS expects to invest approximately $50 million on this project at which time it will be substantially complete.

We are committed to investing in solar, wind, and battery storage. Below are examples of renewable projects that are proposed or currently underway.

•We have received approval to invest in 300 MW of utility-scale solar within our Wisconsin segment. WPS has partnered with an unaffiliated utility to construct two solar projects in Wisconsin. Two Creeks is located in Manitowoc County, Wisconsin, and Badger Hollow I is located in Iowa County, Wisconsin. WPS owns 100 MW of Two Creeks, which achieved commercial operation in November 2020, and will own 100 MW of Badger Hollow I for a total of 200 MW. Commercial operation is targeted for the second quarter of 2021 for Badger Hollow I. WPS's share of the cost of both projects is estimated to be approximately $260 million. WE has partnered with an unaffiliated utility to construct a solar project, Badger Hollow II, that will be located in Iowa County, Wisconsin. Once constructed, WE will own 100 MW of this project. WE's share of the cost of this project is estimated to be $130 million. Commercial operation of Badger Hollow II is targeted for December 2022.

•In February 2021, WE and WPS, along with an unaffiliated utility, filed an application with the PSCW for approval to acquire and construct the Paris Solar-Battery Park, a utility-scale solar-powered electric generating facility with a battery energy storage system. The project will be located in Kenosha County, Wisconsin and features 200 MW of solar generation and 110 MW of battery storage. The joint applicants propose that WE would acquire a 75% ownership interest, WPS would acquire a 15% ownership interest, and the unaffiliated utility would acquire the remaining 10% ownership interest. If approved, WE and WPS' combined share of the cost of this project is estimated to be approximately $385 million with construction expected to begin in 2022 and completed by the end of 2023.

•In February 2021, WE and WPS filed an application with the PSCW for approval to accelerate up to approximately $154 million in capital investments in BSGF and CCWP, to repower major components. Both projects are expected to be completed by the end of 2022.

WE is constructing approximately 46 miles of natural gas transmission main to increase the quantity and reliability of natural gas service in southeastern Wisconsin. This project, which was approved in a written order by the PSCW in June 2020, has been designated as the Lakeshore Lateral Project. The cost of the project is estimated to be between $174 and $180 million. Construction for the project began in December 2020, and the project is expected to be completed by the end of 2021.

WE and WG each plans to construct its own LNG facility. Subject to PSCW approval, each facility would provide approximately one Bcf of natural gas supply to meet anticipated peak demand without requiring the construction of additional interstate pipeline capacity. These facilities are expected to reduce the likelihood of constraints on WE's and WG's natural gas systems during the highest demand days of winter. The total cost of both projects is estimated to be approximately $370 million, with approximately half being invested by each utility. Commercial operation of the LNG facilities is targeted for the end of 2023.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 65 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

PGL is continuing work on the SMP, a project under which PGL is replacing approximately 2,000 miles of Chicago's aging natural gas pipeline infrastructure. PGL currently recovers these costs through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an ICC approved QIP rider, which is in effect through 2023. PGL's projected average annual investment through 2022 is between $280 million and $300 million. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the SMP.

The non-utility energy infrastructure segment line item in the table above includes WECI's planned investment in Thunderhead. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information on this wind project.

We expect to provide total capital contributions to ATC (not included in the above table) of approximately $45 million from 2021 through 2023. We do not expect to make any contributions to ATC Holdco during that period.

See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Coronavirus Disease – 2019, for information on the impacts to our capital projects as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Common Stock Matters

For information related to our common stock matters, see Note 11, Common Equity.

On January 21, 2021, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.6775 per share effective with the first quarter of 2021 dividend payment, an increase of 7.1%. This equates to an annual dividend of $2.71 per share. In addition, the Board of Directors affirmed our dividend policy that continues to target a dividend payout ratio of 65-70% of earnings.

Investments in Outside Trusts

We use outside trusts to fund our pension and certain OPEB obligations. These trusts had investments of approximately $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2020. These trusts hold investments that are subject to the volatility of the stock market and interest rates. We contributed $113.2 million and $65.9 million to our pension and OPEB plans in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Future contributions to the plans will be dependent upon many factors, including the performance of existing plan assets and long-term discount rates. For additional information, see Note 20, Employee Benefits.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are a party to various financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk as a part of our normal course of business, including financial guarantees and letters of credit that support construction projects, commodity contracts, and other payment obligations. We believe that these agreements do not have, and are not reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. For additional information, see Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, Note 19, Guarantees, and Note 23, Variable Interest Entities.

FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Coronavirus Disease – 2019

The global outbreak of COVID-19 was declared a pandemic by the WHO and the CDC and has spread globally, including throughout the United States. There is still considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic itself, as well as the measures currently in place to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, limitations on business operations, and the timing of widespread availability of the vaccines. Although the shelter-in-place orders that were in effect for our service territories have expired, other orders limiting the capacity of various businesses have been adopted in some jurisdictions. In addition, similar or more restrictive orders could be adopted in the future depending on how the virus continues to spread and/or mutate. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related government responses have significantly disrupted economic activity in our service territories. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information on our risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 66 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Liquidity and Financial Markets

Volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and global economy have impacted us in a number of ways. Upon the initial enactment of certain COVID-19 related shelter-in-place orders in early to mid-March 2020, commercial paper markets became more expensive and related terms became less flexible. In response to these signs of market instability, the Federal Reserve implemented certain measures, including a reduction in its benchmark Federal Funds rate and the establishment of various programs to restore liquidity and stability into the short-term funding markets. These measures have had a mitigating effect on commercial paper rates and availability. In addition, the initial disruption in the long-term debt markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided.

In response to the factors discussed above, we have taken several steps to enhance our liquidity position. In March 2020, we entered into a $340 million, 364-day term loan, which was used to pay down commercial paper. Also, while not directly related to COVID-19, we have completed several long-term debt offerings and refinancings in 2020 in order to finance capital investment in accordance with our long-term capital plan and also to take advantage of the low interest rate environment. See Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information on recent borrowing activity.

Our overall liquidity position remains strong. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $1.4 billion available under our credit facilities, providing sufficient backing for our commercial paper program.

Pensions and Other Benefits

Our pension and OPEB plans were well funded at December 31, 2020, with total plan assets exceeding total benefit obligations by $273.9 million. There has been significant volatility in global capital markets during the COVID-19 pandemic, although the market losses seen during the early stages of the pandemic in the first quarter of 2020 reversed course throughout the remainder of the year in response to government stimulus and relief efforts and the gradual reopening of businesses. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a $451.2 million increase in the value of long-term investments held in our pension and OPEB plan trusts as gains recognized during the last three quarters of 2020 more than offset first quarter losses.

We could still see earnings volatility associated with certain other benefit plans that we maintain, primarily related to performance units that we grant to certain employees, and our deferred compensation plans. Certain of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans are indexed to mutual funds and our common stock, and the liabilities associated with outstanding performance units are indexed to our common stock. These liabilities are marked to fair value through earnings each period, with earnings increasing as market prices decrease. Earnings volatility associated with our deferred compensation plans is partially mitigated by investments we hold in a rabbi trust.

Allowance for Credit Losses

We evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable and unbilled revenue balances considering a combination of factors. Risks identified that we do not believe are reflected in historical reserve percentages are assessed on a quarterly basis to determine whether further adjustments are required. Economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, including higher unemployment rates and the inability of some businesses to recover from the pandemic, could cause a higher percentage of accounts receivable to become uncollectible. Although impacts on our results of operations related to uncollectible receivable balances are mitigated by regulatory mechanisms and certain COVID-19 specific regulatory orders we have received, the increase in past due receivables we have experienced has resulted in higher working capital requirements. At December 31, 2020, accounts receivables, net of reserves for credit losses, that were greater than 90 days past due, totaled $122.8 million, a $38.6 million increase compared to December 31, 2019.

Our exposure to credit losses for certain regulated utility customers is mitigated by regulatory mechanisms we have in place. Specifically, rates related to all of the customers in our Illinois segment, as well as the residential rates of WE, WPS, and WG in our Wisconsin segment include riders or other mechanisms for cost recovery or refund of uncollectible expense based on the difference between the actual provision for credit losses and the amounts recovered in rates. In addition, we have received specific orders related to the deferral of certain costs (including credit losses) and foregone revenues related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The additional protections provided by these COVID-19 specific regulatory orders are still being assessed and will be subject to prudency reviews. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on these orders.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 67 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Loss of Business

We have seen a decrease in the consumption of electricity and natural gas by some of our commercial and industrial customers as they continue to experience lower demand for their products and services as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many businesses in our service territories still are not operating at full capacity. The extent to which this decrease in consumption will impact our results of operations and liquidity is dependent upon the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ability of our customers to resume and continue normal operations.

Supply Chain and Capital Projects

We have not yet experienced a significant disruption in our supply chain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, if the pandemic significantly impacts our key suppliers’ ability to manufacture or deliver critical equipment and supplies or provide services, we could experience delays in our ability to perform certain maintenance and capital project activities.

The timing of Badger Hollow I has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The parties agreed to delay the expected commercial operation date from December 2020 to the second quarter of 2021 so that initial staffing increases could be minimized in light of state mandated COVID-19 orders. We are not currently aware of any other major delays or changes related to our capital plan as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, although we are continuing to monitor potential impacts on an ongoing basis.

Employee Safety

The health and safety of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic is paramount and enables us to continue to provide critical services to our customers.

We are following CDC guidelines and have taken precautions with regard to employee hygiene and facility cleanliness, imposed travel limitations on our employees, provided additional employee benefits, and implemented remote work policies where appropriate. We have activated an incident management team and updated our pandemic continuity plan, which includes identifying critical work groups and ensuring safe harbor plans are in place. We have minimized the unnecessary risk of exposure to COVID-19 by implementing self-quarantine measures and have adopted additional precautionary measures for our critical work groups.

Additional protocols have been implemented for our field employees who travel to customer premises in order to protect them, our customers, and the public. We have modified our work protocols to ensure compliance with social distancing and face covering recommendations.

All of these safety measures have caused us to incur additional costs, and depending upon the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material impact on our results of operations and liquidity.

Regulatory Environment

Our utilities have taken actions to ensure that essential utility services are available to customers in their service territories during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the PSCW, the ICC, the MPUC, and the MPSC have all issued written orders regarding certain measures required in their respective jurisdictions. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on these orders and the potential recovery of expenditures incurred as a result of the measures being taken.

Market Risks and Other Significant Risks

We are exposed to market and other significant risks as a result of the nature of our businesses and the environments in which those businesses operate. These risks, described in further detail below, include but are not limited to:

Regulatory Recovery

Our utilities account for their regulated operations in accordance with accounting guidance under the Regulated Operations Topic of the FASB ASC. Our rates are determined by various regulatory commissions. See Item 1. Business – E. Regulation for more information on these commissions.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 68 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Regulated entities are allowed to defer certain costs that would otherwise be charged to expense if the regulated entity believes the recovery of those costs is probable. We record regulatory assets pursuant to generic and/or specific orders issued by our regulators. Recovery of the deferred costs in future rates is subject to the review and approval by those regulators. We assume the risks and benefits of ultimate recovery of these items in future rates. If the recovery of the deferred costs, including those referenced below, is not approved by our regulators, the costs would be charged to income in the current period. Regulators can impose liabilities on a prospective basis for amounts previously collected from customers and for amounts that are expected to be refunded to customers. We record these items as regulatory liabilities. As of December 31, 2020, our regulatory assets were $3,544.1 million, and our regulatory liabilities were $3,979.1 million.

Due to the Tax Legislation, our regulated utilities remeasured their deferred taxes and recorded a tax benefit of $2,529 million. Our utilities have been returning this tax benefit to ratepayers through refunds, bill credits, riders, and reductions to other regulatory assets, which we expect to continue. See Note 16, Income Taxes, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

We expect to request or have requested recovery of the costs related to the following projects discussed in recent or pending rate proceedings, orders, and investigations involving our utilities:

•Prior to its acquisition by us, Integrys initiated an information technology project with the goal of improving the customer experience at its subsidiaries. Specifically, the project is expected to provide functional and technological benefits to the billing, call center, and credit collection functions. As of December 31, 2020, we had not received any significant disallowances of the costs incurred for this project. WPS and MERC received approval to recover these costs in their most recent rate orders; however, the costs incurred for this project in our other regulatory jurisdictions are still subject to approval by the applicable regulators.

•In January 2014, the ICC approved PGL's use of the QIP rider as a recovery mechanism for costs incurred related to investments in QIP. This rider is subject to an annual reconciliation whereby costs are reviewed for accuracy and prudency. In March 2020, PGL filed its 2019 reconciliation with the ICC, which, along with the 2018, 2017, and 2016 reconciliations, are still pending. As of December 31, 2020, there can be no assurance that all costs incurred under the QIP rider during the open reconciliation years will be deemed recoverable by the ICC.

See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information regarding recent and pending rate proceedings, orders, and investigations involving our utilities.

Commodity Costs

In the normal course of providing energy, we are subject to market fluctuations in the costs of coal, natural gas, purchased power, and fuel oil used in the delivery of coal. We manage our fuel and natural gas supply costs through a portfolio of short and long-term procurement contracts with various suppliers for the purchase of coal, natural gas, and fuel oil. In addition, we manage the risk of price volatility through natural gas and electric hedging programs.

Embedded within our utilities' rates are amounts to recover fuel, natural gas, and purchased power costs. Our utilities have recovery mechanisms in place that allow them to recover or refund all or a portion of the changes in prudently incurred fuel, natural gas, and purchased power costs from rate case-approved amounts. See Item 1. Business – E. Regulation for more information on these mechanisms.

Higher commodity costs can increase our working capital requirements, result in higher gross receipts taxes, and lead to increased energy efficiency investments by our customers to reduce utility usage and/or fuel substitution. Higher commodity costs combined with slower economic conditions also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. See Note 5, Credit Losses, for more information on riders and other mechanisms that allow for cost recovery or refund of uncollectible expense.

Due to the cold temperatures, wind, snow and ice throughout the central part of the country during February 2021, the cost of gas purchased for our natural gas utility customers was temporarily driven higher than our normal winter weather expectations. In aggregate, we estimate that the total increase was between $300 million and $350 million as of February 25, 2021. All of our utilities have regulatory mechanisms in place for recovering all prudently incurred gas costs. In addition, we have adequate liquidity and access to capital markets to manage any short-term increase in working capital resulting from the lag in recovery. For information on the GCRMs, see Note 1(d), Operating Revenues.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 69 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Weather

Our utilities' rates are based upon estimated normal temperatures. Our electric utility margins are unfavorably sensitive to below normal temperatures during the summer cooling season and, to some extent, to above normal temperatures during the winter heating season. Our natural gas utility margins are unfavorably sensitive to above normal temperatures during the winter heating season. PGL, NSG, and MERC have decoupling mechanisms in place that help reduce the impacts of weather. Decoupling mechanisms differ by state and allow utilities to recover or refund certain differences between actual and authorized margins. A summary of actual weather information in our utilities' service territories during 2020 and 2019, as measured by degree days, may be found in Results of Operations.

Interest Rates

We are exposed to interest rate risk resulting from our short-term and long-term borrowings and projected near-term debt financing needs. We manage exposure to interest rate risk by limiting the amount of our variable rate obligations and continually monitoring the effects of market changes on interest rates. When it is advantageous to do so, we enter into long-term fixed rate debt. We may also enter into derivative financial instruments, such as swaps, to mitigate interest rate exposure.

Based on the variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of one percentage point would have increased annual interest expense by $20.3 million and $10.8 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. This sensitivity analysis was performed assuming a constant level of variable rate debt during the period and an immediate increase in interest rates, with no other changes for the remainder of the period.

Marketable Securities Return

We use various trusts to fund our pension and OPEB obligations. These trusts invest in debt and equity securities. Changes in the market prices of these assets can affect future pension and OPEB expenses. Additionally, future contributions can also be affected by the investment returns on trust fund assets. We believe that the financial risks associated with investment returns would be partially mitigated through future rate actions by our various utility regulators.

The fair value of our trust fund assets and expected long-term returns were approximately:

------------------- ----------------------- ------- --------------------------------- ---- -
(in millions) As of December 31, 2020 Expected Return on Assets in 2021
Pension trust funds $ 3,225.0 6.87 %
OPEB trust funds $ 951.4 7.00 %

Fiduciary oversight of the pension and OPEB trust fund investments is the responsibility of an Investment Trust Policy Committee. The Committee works with external actuaries and investment consultants on an ongoing basis to establish and monitor investment strategies and target asset allocations. Forecasted cash flows for plan liabilities are regularly updated based on annual valuation results. Target asset allocations are determined utilizing projected benefit payment cash flows and risk analyses of appropriate investments. The targeted asset allocations are intended to reduce risk, provide long-term financial stability for the plans, and maintain funded levels which meet long-term plan obligations while preserving sufficient liquidity for near-term benefit payments. Investment strategies utilize a wide diversification of asset types and qualified external investment managers.

We consult with our investment advisors on an annual basis to help us forecast expected long-term returns on plan assets by reviewing actual historical returns and calculating expected total trust returns using the weighted-average of long-term market returns for each of the major target asset categories utilized in the funds.

Economic Conditions

We have electric and natural gas utility operations that serve customers in Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Michigan. As such, we are exposed to market risks in the regional Midwest economy. In addition, any economic downturn or disruption of national or international markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products, which could affect their demand for our products.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 70 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Inflation

We continue to monitor the impact of inflation, especially with respect to the costs of medical plans, fuel, transmission access, construction costs, and regulatory and environmental compliance in order to minimize its effects in future years through pricing strategies, productivity improvements, and cost reductions. We do not believe the impact of general inflation will have a material impact on our future results of operations.

For additional information concerning risk factors, including market risks, see the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information at the beginning of this report and Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Competitive Markets

Electric Utility Industry

The FERC supports large RTOs, which directly impacts the structure of the wholesale electric market. Due to the FERC's support of RTOs, MISO uses the MISO Energy Markets to carry out its operations, including the use of LMP to value electric transmission congestion and losses. Increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant and adverse financial impact on us. It is uncertain when, if at all, retail choice might be implemented in Wisconsin. However, Michigan has adopted a limited retail choice program.

Wisconsin

Electric utility revenues in Wisconsin are regulated by the PSCW. The PSCW continues to maintain the position that the question of whether to implement electric retail competition in Wisconsin should ultimately be decided by the Wisconsin legislature. No such legislation has been introduced in Wisconsin to date.

Michigan

Under Michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. As a result, some of our small retail customers have switched to an alternative electric supplier. At December 31, 2020, Michigan law limited customer choice to 10% of an electric utility's Michigan retail load. Our iron ore mine customer, Tilden, is exempt from this 10% cap based on current law, but Tilden is required under a long-term agreement to purchase electric power from UMERC through March 2039. In addition, certain load increases by facilities already using an alternative electric supplier can still be serviced by their alternative electric supplier, when various conditions exist, even if the cap has already been met. When a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer.

Natural Gas Utility Industry

We offer natural gas transportation services to our customers that elect to purchase natural gas directly from a third-party supplier. Since these transportation customers continue to use our distribution systems to transport natural gas to their facilities, we earn distribution revenues from them. As such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is substantially offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs.

Wisconsin

Our Wisconsin utilities offer both natural gas transportation service and interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. Customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. Due to the PSCW's previous proceedings on natural gas industry regulation in a competitive environment, the PSCW currently provides all Wisconsin customer classes with competitive markets the option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier. All of our Wisconsin customer classes have competitive market choices and, therefore, can purchase natural gas directly from either a third-party supplier or their local natural gas utility. Since third-party suppliers can be used in Wisconsin, the PSCW has also adopted standards for transactions between a utility and its natural gas marketing affiliates. We are currently unable to predict the impact, if any, of potential future industry restructuring on our results of operations or financial position.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 71 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Illinois

Absent extraordinary circumstances, potential competitors are not allowed to construct competing natural gas distribution systems in the service territories for PGL and NSG. A charter from the state of Illinois gives PGL the right to provide natural gas distribution service in the city of Chicago as a public utility. Further, the "first in the field" and public interest standards limit the ability of potential competitors to operate in an existing utility service territory. In addition, we believe it would be impractical to construct competing duplicate distribution facilities due to the high cost of installation.

Since 2002, PGL and NSG have, under ICC-approved tariffs, provided their customers with the option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier. There are no state laws requiring PGL and NSG to make this choice option available to customers, but since this option is currently provided to our Illinois customers under tariff, we would need ICC approval to eliminate it.

An interstate pipeline may seek to provide transportation service directly to our Illinois end users, which would bypass our natural gas transportation service. However, PGL and NSG have bypass tariffs approved by the ICC, which allow them to negotiate rates with customers that are potential bypass candidates to help ensure that such customers continue to use their transportation service.

Minnesota

Natural gas utilities in the state of Minnesota do not have exclusive franchise service territories and, as a matter of law and policy, natural gas utilities may compete for new customers. However, natural gas utilities have customarily avoided competing for existing customers of other utilities, as there would be duplicative utility facilities and/or increased costs to customers. If this approach were to change, it could lead to a greater level of competition amongst utilities to obtain customers.

MERC offers both natural gas transportation service and interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. Customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. MERC has provided its commercial and industrial customers with the option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier since 2006. We are not required by the MPUC or state law to make this choice option available to customers, but since this option is currently provided to our Minnesota commercial and industrial customers, we would need MPUC approval to eliminate it.

Michigan

The option to choose a third-party natural gas supplier has been provided to UMERC’s natural gas customers (formerly WPS’s Michigan natural gas customers) since the late 1990s and MGU's customers since 2005. We are not required by the MPSC or state law to make this choice option available to customers, but since this option is currently provided to our Michigan customers, we would need MPSC approval to eliminate it.

Environmental Matters

See Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, for a discussion of certain environmental matters affecting us, including rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, land quality, and climate change.

Other Matters

Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017

In December 2017, the Tax Legislation was signed into law. During 2018, 2019, and 2020, the PSCW and the MPSC issued written orders regarding how to refund certain tax savings from the Tax Legislation to our ratepayers in Wisconsin and Michigan, respectively. The various remaining impacts of the Tax Legislation on our Wisconsin operations were addressed in the rate orders issued by the PSCW in December 2019. The MPSC also approved a settlement in May 2018 with Tilden that addressed all base rate impacts of the Tax Legislation, and the FERC approved the revised formula rate tariffs for WPS and WE that incorporated the impacts on the Tax Legislation in July 2019 and August 2020, respectively. In addition, the ICC approved the VITA in Illinois during April 2018, and, in Minnesota, the MPUC included the various impacts of the Tax Legislation in MERC's final 2018 rate order. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the state commissions' responses to the Tax Legislation.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 72 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
American Transmission Company Allowed Return on Equity Complaints

On November 21, 2019, the FERC issued an order (November 2019 Order) related to the methodology used to calculate the base ROE for all MISO transmission owners, including ATC. Based on this order, the FERC expanded its base ROE methodology to include the capital-asset pricing model in addition to the discounted cash flow model to better reflect how investors make their investment decisions. The FERC's modified methodology reduced the base ROE that ATC is allowed to collect on a going-forward basis, as discussed below. In response to the FERC's decision, requests for the FERC to rehear the November 2019 Order in its entirety were filed by various parties.

On May 21, 2020, the FERC issued an order (May 2020 Order) that granted in part and denied in part the requests to rehear the November 2019 Order. In the May 2020 Order, the FERC made additional revisions to its base ROE methodology, including adding the use of the risk premium model. As discussed below, the additional revisions made by the FERC increased ATC's base ROE authorized in the November 2019 Order on a going-forward basis. Various parties filed requests to rehear certain parts of the May 2020 Order with the FERC, but the FERC issued an order in response to the rehearing requests during November 2020 (November 2020 Order) that confirmed the ROE authorized in the May 2020 Order. Petitions for review of the November 2019 Order, relevant parts of the May 2020 Order, and the November 2020 Order have also been filed with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.

First Return on Equity Complaint

In November 2013, a group of MISO industrial customer organizations filed a complaint with the FERC requesting to reduce the base ROE used by MISO transmission owners, including ATC, from 12.2% to 9.15%. In September 2016, the FERC issued an order requiring MISO transmission owners to collect a reduced base ROE of 10.32%, as well as the 0.5% incentive adder approved by the FERC in January 2015 for MISO transmission owners. The FERC then issued the November 2019 Order after directing MISO transmission owners and other stakeholders to provide briefs and comments on a proposed change to the methodology for calculating base ROE. The November 2019 Order further reduced the base ROE for all MISO transmission owners, including ATC, to 9.88%, effective as of September 28, 2016 and prospectively. The November 2019 Order also continued to allow the collection of the 0.5% ROE incentive adder, which only applies to revenues collected after January 6, 2015. In response to the rehearing requests filed related to the November 2019 Order, the FERC issued another order in May 2020. This May 2020 Order increased the base ROE for all MISO transmission owners, including ATC, from the 9.88% authorized in the November 2019 Order to 10.02%, effective as of September 28, 2016 and prospectively. The May 2020 Order also allowed the continued collection of the 0.5% ROE incentive adder.

ATC is required to provide refunds, with interest, for the 15-month refund period from November 12, 2013 through February 11, 2015 and for the period from September 28, 2016 through November 19, 2020. As a result, ATC is expected to continue providing WE and WPS with refunds related to the transmission costs they paid during the two refund periods through the end of September 2021. These refunds are being applied to WE's and WPS's PSCW-approved escrow accounting for transmission expense.

Second Return on Equity Complaint

In February 2015, a second complaint was filed with the FERC requesting a reduction in the base ROE used by MISO transmission owners, including ATC, to 8.67%, with a refund effective date retroactive to February 12, 2015. The FERC also addressed this second complaint in the November 2019 Order. Similar to the first complaint, the November 2019 Order stated that the base ROE of 9.88% and the 0.5% incentive adder were reasonable for the period covered by the second complaint, February 12, 2015 through May 10, 2016. However, in the November 2019 Order, the FERC relied on certain provisions of the Federal Power Act to dismiss the second complaint and to determine that refunds were not allowed for this period. In its May 2020 Order, the FERC stated the new base ROE of 10.02% and the 0.5% incentive adder were reasonable for the period covered by the second complaint. However, the FERC relied on the same provisions of the Federal Power Act to again dismiss the complaint and determine that refunds were not allowed for this period. The FERC also denied the requests to rehear both the dismissal of the second complaint and the determination that no refunds are allowed for the second complaint period.

Due to the various outstanding petitions related to the November 2019 Order, May 2020 Order, and November 2020 Order, refunds could still be required for the second complaint period. Therefore, our financials continue to reflect a liability of $39.1 million, reducing our equity earnings from ATC. This liability is based on a 10.52% ROE for the second complaint period. If it is ultimately determined that a refund is required for the second complaint period, we would not expect any such refund to have a material impact on our financial statements or results of operations in the future. In addition, WE and WPS would be entitled to receive a portion of the refund from ATC for the benefit of their customers.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 73 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in compliance with GAAP requires the application of appropriate technical accounting rules and guidance as well as the use of estimates. The application of these policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future events, including the likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and regulatory challenges, and anticipated recovery of costs. These judgments, in and of themselves, could materially impact the financial statements and disclosures based on varying assumptions. In addition, the financial and operating environment may also have a significant effect, not only on the operation of our business, but on our results reported through the application of accounting measures used in preparing the financial statements and related disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting policies applied have not changed.

The following is a list of accounting policies that are most significant to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and that require management's most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments.

Regulatory Accounting

Our utility operations follow the guidance under the Regulated Operations Topic of the FASB ASC (Topic 980). Our financial statements reflect the effects of the rate-making principles followed by the various jurisdictions regulating us. Certain items that would otherwise be immediately recognized as revenues and expenses are deferred as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators.

Future recovery of regulatory assets, including the timeliness of recovery and our ability to earn a reasonable return, is not assured and is generally subject to review by regulators in rate proceedings for matters such as prudence and reasonableness. Once approved, the regulatory assets and liabilities are amortized into earnings over the rate recovery or refund period. If recovery or refund of costs is not approved or is no longer considered probable, these regulatory assets or liabilities are recognized in current period earnings. Management regularly assesses whether these regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of future recovery or refund by considering factors such as changes in the regulatory environment, earnings from our electric and natural gas utility operations, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation.

The application of the Regulated Operations Topic of the FASB ASC would be discontinued if all or a separable portion of our utility operations no longer met the criteria for application. Our regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off to income as an unusual or infrequently occurring item in the period in which discontinuation occurred. As of December 31, 2020, we had $3,544.1 million in regulatory assets and $3,979.1 million in regulatory liabilities. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, for more information.

Goodwill

We completed our annual goodwill impairment tests for all of our reporting units that carried a goodwill balance as of July 1, 2020. No impairments were recorded as a result of these tests. For all of our reporting units, the fair values calculated in step one of the test were greater than their carrying values. The fair values for the reporting units were calculated using a combination of the income approach and the market approach.

For the income approach, we used internal forecasts to project cash flows. Any forecast contains a degree of uncertainty, and changes in these cash flows could significantly increase or decrease the calculated fair value of a reporting unit. Since all of our reporting units are regulated, a fair recovery of and return on costs prudently incurred to serve customers is assumed. An unfavorable outcome in a rate case could cause the fair values of our reporting units to decrease.

Key assumptions used in the income approach include ROEs, the long-term growth rates used to determine terminal values at the end of the discrete forecast period, and the discount rates. The discount rate is applied to estimated future cash flows and is one of the most significant assumptions used to determine fair value under the income approach. As interest rates rise, the calculated fair values will decrease. The discount rate is based on the weighted-average cost of capital for each reporting unit, taking into account both the after-tax cost of debt and cost of equity. The terminal year ROE for each utility is driven by its current allowed ROE. The terminal growth rate is based primarily on a combination of historical and forecasted statistics for real gross domestic product and personal income for each utility service area.

For the market approach, we used an equal weighting of the guideline public company method and the guideline merged and acquired company method. The guideline public company method uses financial metrics from similar publicly traded companies to

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 74 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
determine fair value. The guideline merged and acquired company method calculates fair value by analyzing the actual prices paid for recent mergers and acquisitions in the industry. We applied multiples derived from these two methods to the appropriate operating metrics for our reporting units to determine fair value.

The underlying assumptions and estimates used in the impairment tests were made as of a point in time. Subsequent changes in these assumptions and estimates could change the results of the tests.

For all of our reporting units, the fair value exceeded its carrying value by over 50%. Based on these results, our reporting units are not at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test.

Our reporting units had the following goodwill balances at July 1, 2020:

--------------------------------- -------- ------- ---------------------------- ---- ----- -
(in millions, except percentages) Goodwill Percentage of Total Goodwill
Wisconsin $ 2,104.3 68.9 %
Illinois 758.7 24.9 %
Other states 183.2 6.0 %
Non-utility energy infrastructure 6.6 0.2 %
Total goodwill $ 3,052.8 100.0 %

See Note 10, Goodwill and Intangibles, for more information.

Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with ASC 980-360, Regulated Operations – Property, Plant, and Equipment, we periodically assess the recoverability of certain long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those long-lived assets may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the market price, a significant change in use, adverse legal factors or a change in business climate, operating or cash flow losses, or an expectation that the asset might be sold. These assessments require significant assumptions and judgments by management. Long-lived assets that would be subject to an impairment assessment would generally include any assets within regulated operations that may not be fully recovered from our customers as a result of regulatory decisions that will be made in the future, and assets within nonregulated operations that are proposed to be sold or are currently generating operating losses.

In accordance with ASC 980-360, when it becomes probable that a generating unit will be retired before the end of its useful life, we assess whether the generating unit meets the criteria for abandonment accounting. Generating units that are considered probable of abandonment are expected to cease operations in the near term, significantly before the end of their original estimated useful lives. As a result, the remaining net book value of these assets can be significant. If a generating unit meets applicable criteria to be considered probable of abandonment, and the unit has been abandoned, we assess the likelihood of recovery of the remaining net book value of that generating unit at the end of each reporting period. If it becomes probable that regulators will disallow full recovery or a return on the remaining net book value of a generating unit that is either abandoned or probable of being abandoned, an impairment loss may be required. An impairment loss would be recorded if the remaining net book value of the generating unit is greater than the present value of the amount expected to be recovered from ratepayers.

The Pleasant Prairie power plant, Pulliam Units 7 and 8, and the jointly-owned Edgewater 4 generating unit were retired during 2018. PIPP was retired during 2019. Effective with the rate orders issued by the PSCW in December 2019, WE and WPS received approval to collect a return of and on the entire net book value of the retired generating units, excluding the Pleasant Prairie power plant. WE will collect a full return of the net book value of the Pleasant Prairie power plant, and a return on all but $100 million of the net book value. In accordance with its PSCW rate order received in December 2019, WE filed an application with the PSCW on July 20, 2020 requesting a financing order to securitize the remaining $100 million of the Pleasant Prairie power plant's book value related to certain environmental controls, plus the carrying costs accrued on the $100 million during the securitization process and related fees. On November 17, 2020, the PSCW issued a written order approving the application. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on our retired generating units, including various approvals we received from the FERC and the PSCW.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 75 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Pension and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits

The costs of providing non-contributory defined pension benefits and OPEB, described in Note 20, Employee Benefits, are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience.

Pension and OPEB costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels, and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plans, and earnings on plan assets. Pension and OPEB costs may also be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets, mortality and discount rates, and expected health care cost trends. Changes made to the plan provisions may also impact current and future pension and OPEB costs.

Pension and OPEB plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity and fixed income market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates, may result in increased or decreased benefit costs in future periods. We believe that such changes in costs would be recovered or refunded at our utilities through the rate-making process.

The following table shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the projected benefit obligation and the reported net periodic pension cost. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only.

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ----- -------------------------- ------ - ----
Actuarial Assumption(in millions, except percentages) Percentage-Point Change in Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation Impact on 2020Pension Cost
Discount rate (0.5) $ 232.2 $ 21.7
Discount rate 0.5 (198.7) (17.8)
Rate of return on plan assets (0.5) N/A 13.7
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (13.7)

The following table shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the accumulated OPEB obligation and the reported net periodic OPEB cost. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only.

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ---- ----------------------------------------- ----- - ---
Actuarial Assumption(in millions, except percentages) Percentage-Point Change in Assumption Impact on PostretirementBenefit Obligation Impact on 2020 PostretirementBenefit Cost
Discount rate (0.5) $ 36.0 $ 3.9
Discount rate 0.5 (31.2) (3.3)
Health care cost trend rate (0.5) (18.8) (4.1)
Health care cost trend rate 0.5 21.6 4.7
Rate of return on plan assets (0.5) N/A 4.3
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (4.3)

The discount rates are selected based on hypothetical bond portfolios consisting of noncallable, high-quality corporate bonds across the full maturity spectrum. From the hypothetical bond portfolios, a single rate is determined that equates the market value of the bonds purchased to the discounted value of the plans' expected future benefit payments.

We establish our expected return on assets based on consideration of historical and projected asset class returns, as well as the target allocations of the benefit trust portfolios. The assumed long-term rate of return on pension plan assets was 6.87% in 2020, and 7.12% in 2019 and 2018. The actual rate of return on pension plan assets, net of fees, was 12.65%, 18.89%, and (4.30)%, in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

In selecting assumed health care cost trend rates, past performance and forecasts of health care costs are considered. For more information on health care cost trend rates and a table showing future payments that we expect to make for our pension and OPEB, see Note 20, Employee Benefits.

Unbilled Revenues

We record utility operating revenues when energy is delivered to our customers. However, the determination of energy sales to individual customers is based upon the reading of their meters, which occurs on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 76 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of their last meter reading are estimated and corresponding unbilled revenues are calculated. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based upon actual generation and throughput volumes, recorded sales, estimated customer usage by class, weather factors, estimated line losses, and applicable customer rates. Significant fluctuations in energy demand for the unbilled period or changes in the composition of customer classes could impact the accuracy of the unbilled revenue estimate. Total utility operating revenues during 2020 of approximately $7.2 billion included unbilled utility revenues of $499.5 million as of December 31, 2020.

Income Tax Expense

We are required to estimate income taxes for each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing consolidated financial statements. This process involves estimating current income tax liabilities together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, for income tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our balance sheets. We also assess the likelihood that our deferred income tax assets will be recovered through future taxable income. To the extent we believe that realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance, which is offset by an adjustment to income tax expense in our income statements.

Uncertainty associated with the application of tax statutes and regulations and the outcomes of tax audits and appeals requires that judgments and estimates be made in the accrual process and in the calculation of effective tax rates. Only income tax benefits that meet the "more likely than not" recognition threshold may be recognized or continue to be recognized. Unrecognized tax benefits are re-evaluated quarterly and changes are recorded based on new information, including the issuance of relevant guidance by the courts or tax authorities and developments occurring in the examinations of our tax returns.

Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred income tax assets. The assumptions involved are supported by historical data, reasonable projections, and interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations across multiple taxing jurisdictions. Significant changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 1(q), Income Taxes, and Note 16, Income Taxes, for a discussion of accounting for income taxes.

We expect our 2021 annual effective tax rate to be between 13% and 14%, which includes an estimated 6% effective tax rate benefit due to the amortization of unprotected excess deferred taxes in connection with the 2019 Wisconsin rate orders. Excluding this estimated effective tax rate benefit, the expected 2021 range would be between 19% and 20%.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 152

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Convertible Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In July 2020, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $28.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, we repurchased and subsequently retired 15.3 million and 21.5 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $18.4 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively.

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28  EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Workfront Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.50 billion in cash consideration. The initial purchase accounting for this transaction has not yet been completed given the short period of time between the acquisition date and issuance of these financial statements. Workfront will be integrated into our Digital Experience reportable segment for financial reporting purposes in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 79  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42 million, which represents the difference between the $55 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $126 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $45 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remain...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of November 27, 2020 and November 29, 2019 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- - ---- ----- - --- (dollar in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2020 2019 4.75% 2020 Notes February 2010 February 2020 4.92% $ -- $ 900 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% 500 -- 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 -- 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 -- 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 -- Term Loan October 2018 April 2020 2.47% -- 2,250 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt -- (3,150) Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (33) (11) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,117 $ 989 Current portion of debt, at par $ -- $ 3,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs -- (1) Carrying value of current debt $ -- $ 3,149 102  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Term Loan In October 2018, we entered into a credit agreement providing a $2.25 billion senior unsecured term loan ("Term Loan") with a maturity date of April 30, 2020. The Term Loan ranked equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. There were no scheduled principal amortization payments prior to maturity and the Term Loan could be prepaid and terminated at our election at any time without penalty or premium. At our election, the Term Loan bore interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.500% to 1.000% or (ii) a base rate plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.040% to 0.110%. The related issuance costs were amortized to interest expense over the Term Loan period using the effective interest method. Interest was payable periodically, in arrears, at the end of each interest period we elec...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Lennar Other 58  LENNAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) The assets and liabilities related to the Company's segments were as follows: -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2020 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,703,986 116,171 38,963 3,918 2,863,038 Restricted cash 15,211 54,481 -- -- 69,692 Receivables, net (1) 298,671 552,779 86,629 -- 938,079 Inventories 16,925,228 -- 249,920 -- 17,175,148 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,490,105 -- -- 1,490,105 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 72,626 -- -- 72,626 Investments held-to-maturity -- 164,230 -- -- 164,230 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- -- -- 53,497 53,497 Investments in unconsolidated entities 953,177 68,869 724,647 386,999 2,133,692 Goodwill 3,442,359 189,699 -- -- 3,632,058 Other assets (4) 1,190,793 68,027 75,749 8,443 1,343,012 $ 25,529,425 2,776,987 1,175,908 452,857 29,935,177 Liabilities: Notes and other debts payable, net $ 5,955,758 1,463,919 -- 1,906 7,421,583 Other liabilities 3,969,893 180,329 252,911 11,060 4,414,193 $ 9,925,651 1,644,248 252,911 12,966 11,835,776 -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2019 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,200,832 234,113 8,711 2,340 1,445,996 Restricted cash 9,698 12,022 -- 975 22,695 Receivables, net (1) 329,124 500,847 76,906 -- 906,877 Inventories 17,776,507 -- 315,107 -- 18,091,614 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,644,939 -- -- 1,644,939 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 73,867 -- -- 73,867 Investments held-to-maturity -- 190,289 -- 54,117 244,406 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- 3...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Lennar Other 58  LENNAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) The assets and liabilities related to the Company's segments were as follows: -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2020 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,703,986 116,171 38,963 3,918 2,863,038 Restricted cash 15,211 54,481 -- -- 69,692 Receivables, net (1) 298,671 552,779 86,629 -- 938,079 Inventories 16,925,228 -- 249,920 -- 17,175,148 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,490,105 -- -- 1,490,105 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 72,626 -- -- 72,626 Investments held-to-maturity -- 164,230 -- -- 164,230 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- -- -- 53,497 53,497 Investments in unconsolidated entities 953,177 68,869 724,647 386,999 2,133,692 Goodwill 3,442,359 189,699 -- -- 3,632,058 Other assets (4) 1,190,793 68,027 75,749 8,443 1,343,012 $ 25,529,425 2,776,987 1,175,908 452,857 29,935,177 Liabilities: Notes and other debts payable, net $ 5,955,758 1,463,919 -- 1,906 7,421,583 Other liabilities 3,969,893 180,329 252,911 11,060 4,414,193 $ 9,925,651 1,644,248 252,911 12,966 11,835,776 -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2019 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,200,832 234,113 8,711 2,340 1,445,996 Restricted cash 9,698 12,022 -- 975 22,695 Receivables, net (1) 329,124 500,847 76,906 -- 906,877 Inventories 17,776,507 -- 315,107 -- 18,091,614 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,644,939 -- -- 1,644,939 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 73,867 -- -- 73,867 Investments held-to-maturity -- 190,289 -- 54,117 244,406 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- 3...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 20]:
Note 20. Income Taxes Components of Income and Income tax expense The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: -------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) United States $ 3,304 $ 4,213 $ 3,510 Foreign 4,456 5,518 3,694 Income before income taxes $ 7,760 $ 9,731 $ 7,204 MASTERCARD 2020 FORM 10-K 95 PART II

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 20]:
Note 20. Income Taxes Components of Income and Income tax expense The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: -------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) United States $ 3,304 $ 4,213 $ 3,510 Foreign 4,456 5,518 3,694 Income before income taxes $ 7,760 $ 9,731 $ 7,204 MASTERCARD 2020 FORM 10-K 95 PART II

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of November 27, 2020 and November 29, 2019 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- - ---- ----- - --- (dollar in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2020 2019 4.75% 2020 Notes February 2010 February 2020 4.92% $ -- $ 900 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% 500 -- 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 -- 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 -- 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 -- Term Loan October 2018 April 2020 2.47% -- 2,250 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt -- (3,150) Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (33) (11) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,117 $ 989 Current portion of debt, at par $ -- $ 3,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs -- (1) Carrying value of current debt $ -- $ 3,149 102  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Term Loan In October 2018, we entered into a credit agreement providing a $2.25 billion senior unsecured term loan ("Term Loan") with a maturity date of April 30, 2020. The Term Loan ranked equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. There were no scheduled principal amortization payments prior to maturity and the Term Loan could be prepaid and terminated at our election at any time without penalty or premium. At our election, the Term Loan bore interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.500% to 1.000% or (ii) a base rate plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.040% to 0.110%. The related issuance costs were amortized to interest expense over the Term Loan period using the effective interest method. Interest was payable periodically, in arrears, at the end of each interest period we elec...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 21]:
NOTE 21 RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Workfront Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.50 billion in cash consideration. The initial purchase accounting for this transaction has not yet been completed given the short period of time between the acquisition date and issuance of these financial statements. Workfront will be integrated into our Digital Experience reportable segment for financial reporting purposes in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 79  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42 million, which represents the difference between the $55 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $126 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $45 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remain...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 21]:
NOTE 21 RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS

[See Note 7]:
(7)Lennar Other 58  LENNAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) The assets and liabilities related to the Company's segments were as follows: -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2020 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,703,986 116,171 38,963 3,918 2,863,038 Restricted cash 15,211 54,481 -- -- 69,692 Receivables, net (1) 298,671 552,779 86,629 -- 938,079 Inventories 16,925,228 -- 249,920 -- 17,175,148 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,490,105 -- -- 1,490,105 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 72,626 -- -- 72,626 Investments held-to-maturity -- 164,230 -- -- 164,230 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- -- -- 53,497 53,497 Investments in unconsolidated entities 953,177 68,869 724,647 386,999 2,133,692 Goodwill 3,442,359 189,699 -- -- 3,632,058 Other assets (4) 1,190,793 68,027 75,749 8,443 1,343,012 $ 25,529,425 2,776,987 1,175,908 452,857 29,935,177 Liabilities: Notes and other debts payable, net $ 5,955,758 1,463,919 -- 1,906 7,421,583 Other liabilities 3,969,893 180,329 252,911 11,060 4,414,193 $ 9,925,651 1,644,248 252,911 12,966 11,835,776 -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2019 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,200,832 234,113 8,711 2,340 1,445,996 Restricted cash 9,698 12,022 -- 975 22,695 Receivables, net (1) 329,124 500,847 76,906 -- 906,877 Inventories 17,776,507 -- 315,107 -- 18,091,614 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,644,939 -- -- 1,644,939 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 73,867 -- -- 73,867 Investments held-to-maturity -- 190,289 -- 54,117 244,406 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- 3...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[see Note 13]:
(13)The restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. Section 1.3.Transfer and Exchange. This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 and the first two paragraphs of Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only. 1.3.1.Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Certificated Notes if: (a)the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (b)the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Certificated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or (c)there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. 5 Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (a), (b) or (c) above, Certificated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise permitted and/or required by the Indenture, every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 1.3 or Section 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note f...

[See Note 13]:
(13)The restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. Section 1.3.Transfer and Exchange. This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 and the first two paragraphs of Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only. 1.3.1.Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Certificated Notes if: (a)the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (b)the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Certificated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or (c)there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. 5 Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (a), (b) or (c) above, Certificated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise permitted and/or required by the Indenture, every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 1.3 or Section 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note f...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[See Note 13]:
(13)The restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. Section 1.3.Transfer and Exchange. This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 and the first two paragraphs of Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only. 1.3.1.Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Certificated Notes if: (a)the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (b)the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Certificated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or (c)there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. 5 Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (a), (b) or (c) above, Certificated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise permitted and/or required by the Indenture, every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 1.3 or Section 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note f...

[See Note 15]:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[See Note 15]:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[refer to Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[See Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 152

[See Note 9]:
Note 9. Debt and Borrowing Arrangements Short-Term Borrowings: Our short-term borrowings and related weighted-average interest rates consisted of: --------------------------- ------------------ -- --------------------- --- ----------------- - --------------------- ----- ----- --- - --- - As of December 31, 2020 2019 AmountOutstanding Weighted-Average Rate AmountOutstanding Weighted-Average Rate (in millions) (in millions) Commercial paper $ -- -- % $ 2,581 2.0 % Bank loans 29 4.8 % 57 5.2 % Total short-term borrowings $ 29 $ 2,638 We repaid all outstanding commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 2020 using the proceeds from net issuances of long-term debt, proceeds from sales of KDP and JDEP shares and operating cash flows. 98  Our uncommitted credit lines and committed credit lines available as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 include: ----------------------------- ------------------ ----- --------------- - --------------- -- --------------- - ----- - -- As of December 31, 2020 2019 Facility Amount Borrowed Amount Facility Amount Borrowed Amount (in millions) Uncommitted credit facilities $ 1,487 $ 29 $ 1,685 $ 57 Credit facility expiry(1): February 26, 2020 -- -- 1,500 -- February 24, 2021 1,500 -- -- -- February 27, 2024 4,500 -- 4,500 -- (1) We maintain a multi-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, including working capital needs, and to support our commercial paper program. The revolving credit agreement includes a covenant that we maintain a minimum shareholders' equity of at least $24.6 billion, excluding accumulated other comprehensive earnings/(losses), the cumulative effects of any changes in accounting principles and earnings/(losses) recognized in connection with the ongoing application of any mark-to-market accounting for pensions and other retirement plans. At December 31, 2020, we complied with this covenant as our shareholders' equity, as defined by the covenant, was $38.3 billion. The revolving credit...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[see Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Convertible Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In July 2020, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $28.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, we repurchased and subsequently retired 15.3 million and 21.5 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $18.4 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively.

[see Note 20]:
Note 20. Income Taxes Components of Income and Income tax expense The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: -------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) United States $ 3,304 $ 4,213 $ 3,510 Foreign 4,456 5,518 3,694 Income before income taxes $ 7,760 $ 9,731 $ 7,204 MASTERCARD 2020 FORM 10-K 95 PART II

[see Note 13]:
(13)The restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. Section 1.3.Transfer and Exchange. This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 and the first two paragraphs of Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only. 1.3.1.Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Certificated Notes if: (a)the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (b)the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Certificated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or (c)there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. 5 Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (a), (b) or (c) above, Certificated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise permitted and/or required by the Indenture, every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 1.3 or Section 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note f...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16 - Commitments and Guarantees Operating Leases The Company has entered into operating and finance leases for its corporate offices, data centers, research and development facilities and certain equipment. The leases expire at various dates through 2028, some of which include options to extend the lease for up to five years. 75 For 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $59 million, $56 million and $53 million, respectively, of operating lease expense, including short-term lease expense. For 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $27 million and $25 million, respectively, of variable lease expense, which primarily included operating expenses and property taxes associated with the usage of facilities under the operating leases. For 2020 and 2019, cash paid for operating leases included in operating cash flows was $55 million and $47 million, respectively. The Company's finance leases and short-term leases are immaterial. Supplemental information related to leases is as follows: -------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- - December 26,2020 Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 5.56 years Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.29 % Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease liabilities as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: ------------------------------------------- ------------- --- Year (In millions) 2021 $ 52 2022 55 2023 48 2024 41 2025 34 2026 and thereafter 54 Total minimum lease payments 284 Less: interest (42) Present value of net minimum lease payments 242 Less: current portion (41) Total long-term operating lease liabilities $ 201 Certain other operating leases contain provisions for escalating lease payments subject to changes in the consumer price index. Purchase and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's purchase obligations primarily include the Company's obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties. The Company also had other contractu...

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. (6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28  EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjuste...

[see Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[See Note 24]:
Note 24 - Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations 152

[See Note 26]:
NOTE 26: SEGMENT FINANCIAL DATA The Company's Chief Executive Officer, our CODM, evaluates how we allocate resources, assess performance and make strategic and operational decisions. Based upon such evaluation, Carrier determined it is organized into three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on net sales and operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, segment results are presented in accordance with this structure. Carrier's operating segments are HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. HVAC provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Carrier's industry-leading family of brands includes Carrier, Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Our HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration is comprised of transport refrigeration and commercial refrigeration products and solutions. Transport refrigeration products and services include refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions are used to enable the safe, reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Carrier's commercia...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28  EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Domestic $ 1,090 $ 438 $ 543 Foreign 3,086 2,767 2,251 Income before income taxes $ 4,176 $ 3,205 $ 2,794 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ---- ---- --- ----- - --- (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Current: United States federal $ 119 $ 7 $ 501 Foreign 222 211 140 State and local 79 31 29 Total current 420 249 670 Deferred: United States federal (123) 23 (466) Foreign (1,313) (12) (10) State and local (68) (6) 9 Total deferred (1,504) 5 (467) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (1,084) $ 254 $ 203 92  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights will be recognized over the period of economic benefit. U.S. Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("U.S. Tax Act") was enacted into law, which significantly c...

[See Note 6]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28  EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

[see Note 20]:
Note 20. Income Taxes Components of Income and Income tax expense The domestic and foreign components of income before income taxes for the years ended December 31 are as follows: -------------------------- ------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- 2020 2019 2018 (in millions) United States $ 3,304 $ 4,213 $ 3,510 Foreign 4,456 5,518 3,694 Income before income taxes $ 7,760 $ 9,731 $ 7,204 MASTERCARD 2020 FORM 10-K 95 PART II

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24

[described in Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Requirements.

F. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Our operations, especially as they relate to our coal-fired generating facilities, are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. Costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. Additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation related to GHG emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, water use, or wastewater discharges and other climate change issues, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs.

Anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and certain remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in Item 7. Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22

['s contract with Local 420 of International Union of Operating Engineers expires in April 2021. Negotiations are in progress, which we expect will conclude before the expiration of the current agreement.

We have a local union presence that spans Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Michigan. We believe we have very good overall relations with our workforce. In order to attract and retain talent, we provide competitive wages and benefits to our employees based on their performance, role, location, and market data.

Diversity and Inclusion

We are committed to fostering a diverse workforce and inclusive workplace. Our commitment is a core strategic competency and an integral part of our culture. As of December 31, 2020, females and minorities represented approximately 25% and 26% of our workforce, respectively. We have a number of initiatives that promote diverse workforce contributions, educate employees about diversity and inclusion, and make our companies attractive employers for persons of diverse backgrounds. These initiatives include eight business resource groups (voluntary, employee-led groups organized around a particular shared background or interest), mentoring programs, and training for leaders on countering unconscious bias, building inclusive teams, and preventing workplace harassment. We also support external leadership and educational programs that support, train, and promote women and minorities in the communities we serve.

Safety and Health

Our Executive Safety Committee directs our safety and health strategy, works to ensure consistency across groups, and reinforces our ongoing safety commitment that we refer to as “Target Zero.” Under our Target Zero commitment, we have an ultimate goal of zero incidents, accidents, and injuries. Our corporate safety program provides a forum for addressing employee concerns, training employees and contractors on current safety standards, and recognizing those who demonstrate a safety focus. We monitor and set goals for Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-recordable and lost-time incidents, as well as leading indicators, which together raise awareness about employee safety and guide injury-prevention activities.

We also provide employees various benefits and resources designed to promote healthy living, both at work and at home. We encourage employees to receive preventive examinations and to proactively care for their health through free health screenings, wellness challenges, and other resources.

During 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented safety protocols and new procedures to protect our employees and customers. See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Coronavirus Disease – 2019, for additional information.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 20 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Development and Training

Employee training and development of both technical and leadership skills are integral aspects of our human capital strategy. We provide employees with a wide range of development opportunities, including online training, simulations, live classes, and mentoring to assist with their career advancement. These programs include safety and technical job skill training as well as soft-skill programs focused on relevant subjects, including communication and change management. Development of leadership skills remains a top priority and is specialized for all levels of employees. We have specific leadership programs for aspiring leaders and new supervisors, managers, and directors. This development of our employees is an integral part of our succession planning and provides continuity for our senior leadership.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 21 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

We are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the SEC from time to time, when making an investment decision.

Risks Related to Legislation and Regulation

Our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation and oversight.

We are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulations, including regulations by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. These regulations significantly influence our operating environment, may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers, and cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs. Changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could also significantly impact us, including requiring us to change our business operations. Many aspects of our operations are regulated and impacted by government regulation, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; the authorized rates of return of our utilities; construction and operation of electric generating facilities and electric and natural gas distribution systems, including the ability to recover such costs; decommissioning generating facilities, the ability to recover the related costs, and continuing to recover the return on the net book value of these facilities; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. Failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

The rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Rate regulation provides us an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. However, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. In addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable ROE. We defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery from or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. Future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. If recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

We believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied in all material respects with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. These permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. In addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. Licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. We cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies.

If we are unable to recover costs of complying with regulations or other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.

We face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations.

Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state, and local environmental laws, regulations, and permit requirements related to, among other things, air emissions (including, but not limited to: CO2, methane, mercury, SO2, and NOx), protection of natural resources, water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous, toxic, and solid wastes and substances. For example, the EPA adopted and implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of NOx, SO2, fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the CAA through the NAAQS, climate change

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 22 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
regulations including the ACE rule, and other air quality regulations. The EPA also finalized regulations under the Clean Water Act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. Several of these rules are being challenged, which creates additional uncertainty. For example, the D.C. Court of Appeals vacated the ACE rule in January 2021. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal, state, or local level. In particular, it is uncertain how the change in the United States presidential administration will impact the final resolution of several environmental standards or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations.

We incur significant capital and operating resources to comply with these environmental laws, regulations, and requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment to further limit GHG emissions from our operations; operating restrictions on our facilities; and environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. The operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could also increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. These regulations may create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. We continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations.

As a result of these compliance costs and other factors, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities have become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which has resulted in these units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. As part of our commitment to a cleaner energy future, we have already retired more than 1,800 MW of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018. Under the ESG Progress Plan, we expect to retire approximately 1,800 MW of additional fossil-fueled generation by 2025, to be replaced with the construction of zero-carbon emitting renewable generation and natural gas-fired generation.

Our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities and at third-party owned sites. We accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. These costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24

['s portion of total plant capacity based on its percent of ownership.

•Wisconsin Power and Light Company, an unaffiliated utility, operates the Columbia units. WPS holds a 27.5% ownership interest in Columbia.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 34 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

•WPS operates the Weston 4 facility and holds a 70.0% ownership interest in this facility. Dairyland Power Cooperative, an unaffiliated energy cooperative, holds the remaining 30.0% interest.

•Two Creeks is jointly owned by WPS and an unaffiliated utility. WPS holds a 66.7% ownership interest in this facility.

•WPS, along with two other unaffiliated utilities, owns Forward Wind Energy Center. WPS holds a 44.6% ownership interest in this facility and the unaffiliated utilities own the remaining 55.4%. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information on the Forward Wind Energy Center acquisition.

(3)    This facility is jointly owned by We Power and two other unaffiliated entities. Our share of capacity is equal to We Power']:
NOTE 27: SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) ------------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- -- -- ----- -- - ----- - ----- 2020 Quarters (dollars in millions) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Net sales $ 3,888 $ 3,972 $ 5,002 $ 4,594 Operating profit (1) $ 315 $ 442 $ 1,081 $ 1,245 Net income attributable to common shareowners (2) $ 96 $ 261 $ 741 $ 884 Earnings per share - basic (3) $ 0.11 $ 0.30 $ 0.86 $ 1.02 Earnings per share - diluted (3) $ 0.11 $ 0.30 $ 0.84 $ 1.00 2019 Quarters Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Net sales $ 4,323 $ 4,962 $ 4,822 $ 4,501 Operating profit (1) $ 500 $ 805 $ 629 $ 557 Net income attributable to common shareowners (2) $ 400 $ 784 $ 492 $ 440 Earnings per share - basic (3) $ 0.46 $ 0.91 $ 0.57 $ 0.50 Earnings per share - diluted (3) $ 0.46 $ 0.91 $ 0.57 $ 0.50 (1) Q3 2020 and Q4 2020 Operating profit includes a $252 million and $871 million gain on the sale of our equity ownership in Beijer, respectively. Q1 2020 Operating profit includes a $71 million impairment charge related to a minority owned joint venture investment. Q3 2019 Operating profit includes a $108 million impairment charge related to a minority owned joint venture investment. (2) Q1 2020 Net income includes a $51 million charge related to a valuation allowance recorded against a United Kingdom tax loss and a credit carryforward and a charge of $46 million resulting from Carrier's decision to no longer permanently reinvest certain pre-2018 unremitted non-U.S. earnings. Q2 2019 Net income includes a tax benefit of $149 million as a result of the filing by a subsidiary of Carrier to participate in an amnesty program offered by the Italian Tax Authority and conclusion of a U.S. income tax audit. (3) Earnings per share for periods presented prior to the Separation and the Distribution were calculated using the number of shares that were distributed to UTC shareowners in the Distribution. For periods prior to the Separation and the Distribution it was assumed that there were ...

['s high level of cooperation and quick action to remedy the situation and to work with the potentially impacted homeowners would be taken into account. At this time, we believe that civil penalties, if any, will not have a material impact on our financial statements.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 37 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The names, ages, and positions of our executive officers are listed below along with their business experience during the past five years. All officers are appointed until they resign, die, or are removed pursuant to our Bylaws. There are no family relationships among these officers, nor is there any agreement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.

Gale E. Klappa. Age 70.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Chairman since February 2019. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from October 2017 to February 2019, and from May 2004 to May 2016. Non-Executive Chairman of the Board from May 2016 to October 2017. President from April 2003 to August 2013. Director since December 2003.
•WE — Director since January 2018, and from December 2003 to May 2016. Chairman of the Board from January 2018 to February 2019, and from May 2004 to May 2016. Chief Executive Officer from January 2018 to February 2019, and from August 2003 to May 2016. President from April 2003 to June 2015.

J. Kevin Fletcher. Age 62.
•WEC Energy Group — Director and Chief Executive Officer since February 2019. President since October 2018.
•WE — Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since February 2019. Director since June 2015. President from May 2016 to November 2018. Executive Vice President - Customer Service and Operations from June 2015 to April 2016.

Robert M. Garvin.   Age 54.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President - External Affairs since June 2015.
•WE — Executive Vice President - External Affairs since June 2015.

William J. Guc.   Age 51.
•WEC Energy Group — Controller since October 2015. Vice President since June 2015.
•WE — Vice President and Controller since October 2015.

Margaret C. Kelsey. Age 56.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel since January 2018. Executive Vice President from September 2017 to January 2018.
•WE — Executive Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel since January 2018. Director since January 2018.
•Modine Manufacturing Company – General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, and Vice President - Legal from April 2008 to August 2017. Vice President - Corporate Communications from April 2014 to August 2017. Modine Manufacturing Company is a manufacturer of thermal management systems and components.

Daniel P. Krueger.   Age 55.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President - WEC Infrastructure since January 2019. Executive Vice President from November 2018 to January 2019.
•WE — Senior Vice President - Wholesale Energy and Fuels from June 2015 to November 2018.

Scott J. Lauber.   Age 55.
•WEC Energy Group — Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since June 2020. Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2019 to June 2020. Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from February 2019 to October 2019. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2018 to February 2019. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2016 to October 2018. Vice President and Treasurer from February 2013 to March 2016.
•WE — Executive Vice President since June 2020. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2019 to June 2020, and from April 2016 to October 2018. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2018 to October 2019. Vice President and Treasurer from February 2013 to March 2016. Director since April 2016.

Xia Liu.   Age 51.
•WEC Energy Group — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2020.
•WE — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since June 2020. Director since June 2020.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 38 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
•CenterPoint Energy, Inc. — Senior Advisor from April 2020 to May 2020. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2019 to April 2020. CenterPoint Energy, Inc. is a public utility holding company whose operating subsidiaries provide electric and natural gas service to customers in parts of the South and Midwest.
•Georgia Power Company — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from October 2017 to April 2019. Georgia Power Company is a utility subsidiary of The Southern Company that provides electric service to customers throughout Georgia.
•Gulf Power Company — Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from July 2015 to October 2017. Gulf Power Company, previously a utility subsidiary of The Southern Company, serves customers in northwest Florida.

Charles R. Matthews.   Age 64.
•PELLC — President since June 2015.
•PGL — Director, President, and Chief Executive Officer since June 2015.
•NSG — Director, President, and Chief Executive Officer since June 2015.

Tom Metcalfe.   Age 53.
•WE — President since November 2018. Executive Vice President - Generation from April 2016 to November 2018. Senior Vice President - Power Generation from January 2014 to March 2016. Director since January 2018.

Anthony L. Reese.   Age 39.
•WEC Energy Group — Vice President and Treasurer since October 2019.
•WE — Vice President and Treasurer since October 2019.
•Controller - Illinois from September 2015 to September 2019.

Mary Beth Straka.   Age 56.
•WEC Energy Group — Senior Vice President - Corporate Communications and Investor Relations since June 2015.

Certain executive officers also hold officer and/or director positions at WEC Energy Group']:
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 37 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 38

["

Common Stock Dividends of WEC Energy Group

We review our dividend policy on a regular basis. Subject to any regulatory restrictions or other limitations on the payment of dividends, future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other factors, earnings, financial condition, and other requirements. For more information on our dividends, including restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends, see Note 11, Common Equity.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

 WEC ENERGY GROUP, INC.
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL DATA AND OTHER STATISTICS

-------------------------------------------- -------- ------- ---- -------- ---- ------- -------- ---- -------- -------- ------- - -------
As of or for Year Ended December 31
(in millions, except per share information) 2020 2019 2018 2017 (1) 2016
Operating revenues $ 7,241.7 $ 7,523.1 $ 7,679.5 $ 7,648.5 $ 7,472.3
Net income attributed to common shareholders 1,199.9 1,134.0 1,059.3 1,203.7 939.0
Total assets 37,028.1 34,951.8 33,475.8 31,590.5 30,123.2
Preferred stock of subsidiary 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4
Long-term debt (excluding current portion) 11,728.1 11,211.0 9,994.0 8,746.6 9,158.2

Weighted average common shares outstanding
Basic 315.4 315.4 315.5 315.6 315.6
Diluted 316.5 316.7 316.9 317.2 316.9

Earnings per share
Basic $ 3.80 $ 3.60 $ 3.36 $ 3.81 $ 2.98
Diluted $ 3.79 $ 3.58 $ 3.34 $ 3.79 $ 2.96

Dividends per share of common stock $ 2.53 $ 2.36 $ 2.21 $ 2.08 $ 1.98

(1)    Includes a $206.7 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders related to a re-measurement of our deferred taxes as a result of the Tax Legislation.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 40 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT']:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Convertible Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In July 2020, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $28.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, we repurchased and subsequently retired 15.3 million and 21.5 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $18.4 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively.

['s ROE. For further discussion of the FERC orders, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Other Matters – American Transmission Company Allowed Return on Equity Complaints. Continued capital investment by ATC also contributed to the higher equity earnings from transmission affiliates.

•A $14.8 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the non-utility energy infrastructure segment, primarily due to lower income tax expense in 2020 driven by wind PTCs generated by our Coyote Ridge wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2019. See Note 2, Acquisitions, and Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

Partially offsetting these increases in earnings was a $43.6 million increase in the net loss attributed to common shareholders at the     corporate and other segment, driven by make-whole premiums related to the early extinguishment of debt during 2020. A higher net operating loss at Wispark, lower net gains from the investments held in the rabbi trust, and a change in unrecognized tax benefits also contributed to the increase in the net loss. These negative impacts were partially offset by lower interest expense. The gains from the investments held in the rabbi trust partially offset benefits costs related to deferred compensation, which are included in our operating segments. See Note 17, Fair Value Measurements, for more information on our investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 44 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
2019 Compared with 2018

Earnings increased $74.7 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The significant factors impacting the $74.7 million increase in earnings were:

•A $32.9 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the Wisconsin segment. The increase was driven by lower operation and maintenance expense related to our power plants, which primarily resulted from lower maintenance and labor costs associated with our 2019 and 2018 plant retirements and increases to certain plant-related regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2019 Wisconsin rate orders. The positive impact from lower operation and maintenance expense was partially offset by a decrease in electric margins related to lower retail sales volumes, primarily driven by cooler summer weather during 2019 compared with 2018, and higher depreciation and amortization expense, driven by assets being placed into service as we continue to execute on our capital plan.

•A $23.2 million increase in net income attributed to common shareholders at the Illinois segment, driven by PGL']:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

['s transmission regulatory asset was eliminated at December 31, 2019, there were no tax benefits used in 2020.

(6)    See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information about our earnings sharing mechanisms.

The following tables provide information on delivered volumes by customer class and weather statistics:

----------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------- -------- ------------- -------- ----- ------- ---------
 Year Ended December 31
 MWh (in thousands) 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Electric Sales Volumes 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Customer class
Residential 11,523.8 10,918.6 11,195.0 605.2 (276.4)
Small commercial and industrial (1) 12,250.0 12,861.0 13,186.7 (611.0) (325.7)
Large commercial and industrial (1) 11,661.8 12,601.6 12,946.5 (939.8) (344.9)
Other 158.7 164.8 169.0 (6.1) (4.2)
Total retail (1) 35,594.3 36,546.0 37,497.2 (951.7) (951.2)
Wholesale 3,088.4 3,314.3 3,612.7 (225.9) (298.4)
Resale 6,189.9 6,006.0 6,019.3 183.9 (13.3)
Total sales in MWh (1) 44,872.6 45,866.3 47,129.2 (993.7) (1,262.9)

(1)    Includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in Michigan.

------------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ------- ------------- ------- ----- ------- ----
 Year Ended December 31
 Therms (in millions) 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Natural Gas Sales Volumes 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Customer class
Residential 1,090.8 1,195.6 1,131.1 (104.8) 64.5
Commercial and industrial 656.7 740.9 733.1 (84.2) 7.8
Total retail 1,747.5 1,936.5 1,864.2 (189.0) 72.3
Transport 1,357.7 1,426.1 1,411.5 (68.4) 14.6
Total sales in therms 3,105.2 3,362.6 3,275.7 (257.4) 86.9

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 47 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

---------------------- ---------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----- ----- ------ - ------ -
 Year Ended December 31
 Degree Days 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
Weather 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
WE and WG (1)
Heating (6,618 normal) 6,092 6,835 6,685 (10.9) % 2.2 %
Cooling (737 normal) 938 727 929 29.0 % (21.7) %

WPS (2)
Heating (7,450 normal) 7,139 7,723 7,554 (7.6) % 2.2 %
Cooling (515 normal) 660 504 678 31.0 % (25.7) %

UMERC (3)
Heating (8,464 normal) 8,189 8,971 8,611 (8.7) % 4.2 %
Cooling (330 normal) 425 284 478 49.6 % (40.6) %

(1)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

(2)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from the Green Bay, Wisconsin weather station.

(3)    Normal degree days are based on a 20-year moving average of monthly temperatures from the Iron Mountain, Michigan weather station.

2020 Compared with 2019

Electric Utility Margins

Electric utility margins at the Wisconsin segment increased $60.2 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The significant factors impacting the higher electric utility margins were:

•A $101.8 million increase in margins associated with the 2019 negative impact of WE']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s new natural gas-fired generation in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan on March 31, 2019. UMERC previously met its market obligations through PPAs.

Natural Gas Utility Margins

Natural gas utility margins at the Wisconsin segment increased $17.8 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The most significant factor impacting the higher natural gas utility margins was higher sales volumes, due in part to colder winter weather, customer growth, and higher use per residential customer during 2019, compared with 2018. As measured by heating degree days, 2019 was 2.2% colder than 2018 in the Milwaukee and Green Bay areas.

Other Operating Expenses (includes other operation and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, and property and revenue taxes)

Other operating expenses at the Wisconsin segment decreased $416.7 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The Wisconsin segment experienced lower overall operating expenses related to efficiencies and effective cost control. The other significant factors impacting the decrease in operating expenses during 2019, compared with 2018, were:

•A $363.3 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense related to the We Power leases, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above.

•A $107.6 million decrease in other operation and maintenance expense related to our power plants, driven by lower maintenance and labor costs associated with our 2019 and 2018 plant retirements, and increases to certain plant-related regulatory assets resulting from decisions included in the December 2019 Wisconsin rate orders. Plant retirements included the March 2019 retirement of the PIPP as well as the 2018 retirements of the Pleasant Prairie power plant, Edgewater Unit 4, and Pulliam Units 7 and 8. See Note 7, Property, Plant, and Equipment, for more information on the plant retirements. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on the Wisconsin rate orders.

•A $10.6 million decrease in transmission expense related to the flow through of tax repairs during 2019, as discussed in the notes under the other operation and maintenance table above. This decrease in transmission expense was offset in income taxes.

•A $6.0 million decrease in expense related to the earnings sharing mechanisms in place at our Wisconsin utilities. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset by:

•A $70.4 million increase in depreciation and amortization, driven by assets being placed into service as we continue to execute on our capital plan as well as an increase related to the We Power leases.

•A $16.4 million increase in storm restoration expense during 2019.

•A $16.3 million net increase in benefit costs, primarily related to higher deferred compensation costs during 2019.

Other Income, Net

Other income, net at the Wisconsin segment increased $3.3 million during 2019, compared with 2018, driven by higher net credits from the non-service components of our net periodic pension and OPEB costs. See Note 20, Employee Benefits, for more information on our benefit costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense at the Wisconsin segment increased $371.3 million during 2019, compared with 2018, primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). Effective January 1, 2019, minimum lease payments were no longer classified within cost of sales or other operation and maintenance, but were instead recorded as a component of depreciation and amortization and interest expense in accordance with Topic 842. As a result of the adoption, for the year ended December 31, 2019, $350.9 million of minimum lease payments were recorded as interest expense on finance lease liabilities. The remaining increase was driven by long-term debt issuances of $700.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2018 and $750.0 million during the second half of 2019.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 51 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense at the Wisconsin segment decreased $11.5 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The decrease was driven by a $22.0 million positive impact from the 2018 PSCW order addressing the benefits associated with the Tax Legislation and a $3.1 million increase in the benefit from the flow through of tax repairs in connection with the 2017 Wisconsin rate settlement. These items did not impact earnings as they were offset in operating income. Partially offsetting these decreases to income tax expense was an increase in pretax income.

Illinois Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

The Illinois segment']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s earnings. Increased earnings from continued capital investment partially offset the negative impact from the FERC order.

Non-Utility Energy Infrastructure Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

-------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ------------- ------------- ----- ----- ----- ----- - ---- - ----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Net income attributed to common shareholders $ 260.8 $ 246.0 $ 228.4 $ 14.8 $ 17.6

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 57 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

2020 Compared with 2019

Net income attributed to common shareholders increased $14.8 million during 2020, compared with 2019, primarily related to a $15.2 million decrease in income tax expense during 2020, compared to 2019, driven by wind PTCs generated by our Coyote Ridge wind park that achieved commercial operation in December 2019. See Note 2, Acquisitions, and Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

2019 Compared with 2018

Net income attributed to common shareholders increased $17.6 million, primarily related to a $14.0 million decrease in income tax expense during 2019, compared to 2018, driven by wind PTCs recognized on the three wind parks acquired in 2018 and 2019. Also contributing to the increase in earnings was a $4.8 million increase in operating income at We Power, driven by higher revenues in connection with capital additions to the plants We Power owns and leases to WE. Partially offsetting these increases were $2.4 million of operating losses at the Upstream and Bishop Hill III wind parks. The majority of earnings from our ownership interests in the wind parks come in the form of the wind PTCs discussed previously.

Corporate and Other Segment Contribution to Net Income Attributed to Common Shareholders

------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ------- ------------- ------------- ------ ----- ----- ------ - ------ - -----
 Year Ended December 31 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018
(in millions) 2020 2019 2018 B (W) B (W)
Net loss attributed to common shareholders $ (106.4) $ (62.8) $ (60.1) $ (43.6) $ (2.7)

2020 Compared with 2019

The net loss attributed to common shareholders at the corporate and other segment increased $43.6 million during 2020, compared with 2019. The significant factors impacting the higher net loss were:

•A $38.4 million loss related to the payment of make-whole premiums during 2020 due to the redemption of $1,030.0 million of long-term debt prior to maturity.

•A $9.0 million higher net operating loss at Wispark, driven by reductions in the carrying value of certain real estate-related investments during 2020 as market and other factors indicated the assets may not be fully recoverable.

•An $8.5 million decrease in other income, net due to lower net gains from investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2020. These investment gains partially offset benefits costs related to deferred compensation, which are included in other operation and maintenance expense in our operating segments. See Note 17, Fair Value Measurements, for more information on our investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust.

•A $5.2 million decrease in interest income from subsidiaries in our operating segments. The decrease was driven by lower interest income from UMERC, as UMERC used the proceeds from its long-term debt issuance in August 2019 to redeem its outstanding long-term debt with WEC Energy Group.

These increases in the net loss attributed to common shareholders were partially offset by:

•A $16.9 million decrease in interest expense, driven by the issuance of new debt in 2020 with lower interest rates than the debt retired during the year. Also contributing to the decrease was lower interest rates on our short-term and variable-rate long-term debt.

•A $1.4 million increase in income tax benefits, driven by an $11.6 million favorable impact from a higher pre-tax loss. This increase in income tax benefits was offset by an $8.2 million change in unrecognized tax benefits during 2020, compared with 2019, and a $3.5 million decrease in excess tax benefits recognized related to stock option exercises during 2020, compared to 2019. See Note 16, Income Taxes, for more information.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 58 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
2019 Compared with 2018

The net loss attributed to common shareholders at the corporate and other segment increased $2.7 million during 2019, compared with 2018. The significant factors impacting the higher net loss were:

•A $15.1 million increase in interest expense, primarily driven by higher long-term debt balances in 2019. The increase in debt balances was primarily related to continued capital investments across our segments.

•A $12.2 million increase in the net operating loss, driven by a transfer of assets from WBS to our regulated utilities in 2018. As a result of these transfers, the return on these assets is now recognized within our regulated utility operations. Also contributing to the increase in the net operating loss was a gain recorded in 2018 that related to a previous sale of a legacy business.

•A $1.2 million decrease in income tax benefits, driven by a $7.8 million benefit related to the change in the tax rates at the segment level resulting from the transfer of ownership of the ATC investment between our subsidiaries. This decrease was offset in the electric transmission segment and, as a result, had no effect on consolidated net income attributed to common shareholders. Also contributing to the decrease was $2.3 million related to year-over-year changes associated with state net operating losses. These decreases in income tax benefits were substantially offset by a $9.9 million increase in excess tax benefits recognized related to stock option exercises during 2019, compared to 2018.

These increases in the net loss attributed to common shareholders were largely offset by a $23.0 million increase in other income, net due to net gains from investments held in the Integrys rabbi trust during 2019, compared with net losses during 2018.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The following discussion and analysis of our Liquidity and Capital Resources includes comparisons of our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020 with the year ended December 31, 2019. For a similar discussion that compares our cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2019 with the year ended December 31, 2018, see Item 7. Management']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[' equity $ 10,469.7 $ 10,719.7 $ 10,113.4 $ 10,363.4
Preferred stock of subsidiary 30.4 30.4 30.4 30.4
Long-term debt (including current portion) 12,513.9 12,263.9 11,904.2 11,654.2
Short-term debt 1,776.9 1,776.9 830.8 830.8
Total capitalization $ 24,790.9 $ 24,790.9 $ 22,878.8 $ 22,878.8

Total debt $ 14,290.8 $ 14,040.8 $ 12,735.0 $ 12,485.0

Ratio of debt to total capitalization 57.6 % 56.6 % 55.7 % 54.6 %

Included in long-term debt on our balance sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, is $500.0 million principal amount of the 2007 Junior Notes. The adjusted presentation attributes $250.0 million of the 2007 Junior Notes to common shareholders']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Domestic $ 1,090 $ 438 $ 543 Foreign 3,086 2,767 2,251 Income before income taxes $ 4,176 $ 3,205 $ 2,794 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ------- ------- ---- ---- ---- --- ----- - --- (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Current: United States federal $ 119 $ 7 $ 501 Foreign 222 211 140 State and local 79 31 29 Total current 420 249 670 Deferred: United States federal (123) 23 (466) Foreign (1,313) (12) (10) State and local (68) (6) 9 Total deferred (1,504) 5 (467) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (1,084) $ 254 $ 203 92  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights will be recognized over the period of economic benefit. U.S. Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("U.S. Tax Act") was enacted into law, which significantly c...

['s book value related to certain environmental controls, plus the carrying costs accrued on the $100 million during the securitization process and related fees. On November 17, 2020, the PSCW issued a written order approving the application. See Note 6, Regulatory Assets and Liabilities, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on our retired generating units, including various approvals we received from the FERC and the PSCW.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 75 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Pension and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits

The costs of providing non-contributory defined pension benefits and OPEB, described in Note 20, Employee Benefits, are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience.

Pension and OPEB costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age, compensation levels, and employment periods), the level of contributions made to the plans, and earnings on plan assets. Pension and OPEB costs may also be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions, including anticipated rates of return on plan assets, mortality and discount rates, and expected health care cost trends. Changes made to the plan provisions may also impact current and future pension and OPEB costs.

Pension and OPEB plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity and fixed income market returns, as well as changes in general interest rates, may result in increased or decreased benefit costs in future periods. We believe that such changes in costs would be recovered or refunded at our utilities through the rate-making process.

The following table shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the projected benefit obligation and the reported net periodic pension cost. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only.

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ----- -------------------------- ------ - ----
Actuarial Assumption(in millions, except percentages) Percentage-Point Change in Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation Impact on 2020Pension Cost
Discount rate (0.5) $ 232.2 $ 21.7
Discount rate 0.5 (198.7) (17.8)
Rate of return on plan assets (0.5) N/A 13.7
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (13.7)

The following table shows how a given change in certain actuarial assumptions would impact the accumulated OPEB obligation and the reported net periodic OPEB cost. Each factor below reflects an evaluation of the change based on a change in that assumption only.

----------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ---- ----------------------------------------- ----- - ---
Actuarial Assumption(in millions, except percentages) Percentage-Point Change in Assumption Impact on PostretirementBenefit Obligation Impact on 2020 PostretirementBenefit Cost
Discount rate (0.5) $ 36.0 $ 3.9
Discount rate 0.5 (31.2) (3.3)
Health care cost trend rate (0.5) (18.8) (4.1)
Health care cost trend rate 0.5 21.6 4.7
Rate of return on plan assets (0.5) N/A 4.3
Rate of return on plan assets 0.5 N/A (4.3)

The discount rates are selected based on hypothetical bond portfolios consisting of noncallable, high-quality corporate bonds across the full maturity spectrum. From the hypothetical bond portfolios, a single rate is determined that equates the market value of the bonds purchased to the discounted value of the plans']:
(100) 23,874,000 21,212,000 0 21,214,000 18,907,000 100 18,926,000 16,930,000 200 16,953,000 15,226,000 (1) In basis points. 40 GL 2020 FORM 10-K  GLOBE LIFE INC. Management's Discussion & Analysis OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses are included in the "Corporate and Other" segment and are classified into two categories: insurance administrative expenses and expenses of the Parent Company. Insurance administrative expenses generally include expenses incurred after a policy has been issued. As these expenses relate to premium for a given period, management measures the expenses as a percentage of premium income. The Company also views stock-based compensation expense as a Parent Company expense. Expenses associated with the issuance of our insurance policies are reflected as acquisition expenses and included in the determination of underwriting margin. The following table is an analysis of operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2020. Operating Expenses Selected Information (Dollar amounts in thousands) --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ----------- ----- ------ ------ ----------- ------- ------- --- ----------- --- ------- ------- - ------- --- 2020 2019 2018 Amount % ofPremium Amount % ofPremium Amount % ofPremium Insurance administrative expenses: Salaries $ 105,935 2.8 $ 102,862 2.8 $ 100,688 2.9 Other employee costs 39,885 1.0 34,947 1.0 35,565 1.0 Information technology costs 45,742 1.2 42,927 1.2 29,286 0.9 Legal costs 11,256 0.3 10,286 0.3 9,187 0.3 Other administrative costs 48,129 1.3 49,299 1.4 49,215 1.4 Total insurance administrative expenses 250,947 6.6 240,321 6.7 223,941 6.5 Parent company expense 9,891 10,260 10,684 Stock compensation expense 35,892 44,843 39,792 Administrative settlements -- 400 3,590 Legal proceedings 3,275 8,358 -- Non-operating expenses 1,033 643 1,578 Total operating expenses, per Consolidated Statements of Operations $ 301,038 $ 304,825 $ 279,585 2020 2...

['s responsibility for maintaining the stability of the transmission system. MISO also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that schedules energy and ancillary services at the same time as part of the energy market, allowing for more efficient use of generation assets in the MISO Energy Markets. These market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the MISO Energy Markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements.

The FERC rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. In addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. Technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. We currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control.

We may experience poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings due to changes in assumptions and market conditions.

We have significant obligations related to pension and OPEB plans. If we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. Types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. Plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. In addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. Our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions.

In addition, we maintain rabbi trusts to fund our deferred compensation plans, which from time to time, hold equity and debt investments that are subject to market fluctuations. Decreases in investment performance of these assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 32 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
General Risks

We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

We are subject to reporting, disclosure control, and other obligations under SOX. SOX contains provisions requiring our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. We have undertaken, and will continue to undertake, a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize, and streamline our operations with technology, including, but not limited to, the implementation of several different ERP systems. There is a risk that we will not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective because of the discovery of material weaknesses, with either our current controls and processes or with the implementation of new controls and processes around these new technologies. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls or a determination by our independent registered public accounting firm that we have a material weakness in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports, cause a decline in the market price of our common stock, restrict our access to the capital markets, or subject us to investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.

We have recorded goodwill that could become impaired.

We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate a potential for impairment. If goodwill is deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur non-cash charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2020, our goodwill was $3,052.8 million.

We may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses.

Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers and our contractors that are required to acquire and maintain insurance for our benefit. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 33 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We own our principal properties outright. However, the major portion of our electric utility distribution lines, steam utility distribution mains, and natural gas utility distribution mains and services are located on or under streets and highways, on land owned by others, and are generally subject to granted easements, consents, or permits.

A. REGULATED

Electric Facilities

The following table summarizes information on our electric generation facilities, including owned and jointly owned facilities, as of December 31, 2020:

------------------------------ ------------------- --------------- -------------------------- ------------------ ----- -------
Name Location Fuel Number of Generating Units Capacity In MW (1)
Coal-fired plants
Columbia Portage, WI Coal 2 311 (2)
ERGS Oak Creek, WI Coal 2 1,059 (3) (4)
OCPP Oak Creek, WI Coal 4 1,076
Weston Rothschild, WI Coal 2 719 (2)
Total coal-fired plants 10 3,165
Natural gas-fired plants
Concord Watertown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 362
De Pere Energy Center De Pere, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 166
Fox Energy Center Wrightstown, WI Natural Gas 3 574
Germantown Germantown, WI Natural Gas/Oil 5 268

F. D. Kuester Negaunee, MI Natural Gas 7 128
A. J. Mihm Baraga, MI Natural Gas 3 55
Paris Union Grove, WI Natural Gas/Oil 4 364
PWGS Port Washington, WI Natural Gas 2 1,228 (4)
Pulliam Green Bay, WI Natural Gas/Oil 1 81
VAPP Milwaukee, WI Natural Gas 2 268
West Marinette Marinette, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 149
Weston Rothschild, WI Natural Gas/Oil 3 115
Total natural gas-fired plants 38 3,758
Renewables
Hydro plants (30 in number) WI and MI Hydro 81 100 (5) (6)
Rothschild Biomass Plant Rothschild, WI Biomass 1 45 (7)
Two Creeks WI Solar 48 100 (2)
Wind sites (5 in number) WI and IA Wind 350 498 (2)
Total renewables 480 743
Total system 528 7,666

(1)    Capacity for our electric generation facilities, other than wind and solar generating facilities, is based on rated capacity, which is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. Values are primarily based on the net dependable expected capacity ratings for summer 2021 established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. The summer period is the most relevant for capacity planning purposes. This is a result of continually reaching demand peaks in the summer months, primarily due to air conditioning demand. Capacity for wind generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds. Capacity for solar generating facilities is based on nameplate capacity, which is the maximum output that a generator should produce at continuous full power.

(2)    These facilities are jointly owned by WPS and various other utilities. The capacity indicated for each of these units is equal to WPS']:
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 33

['s wind generating facilities as of December 31, 2020:

-------------------------------- ------------------------------ -------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- ---
Name Location Number of Generating Units Nameplate Capacity In MW (1)
Wind generating facilities
Upstream Antelope County, Nebraska 81 202.5 (2)
Bishop Hill III Henry County, Illinois 53 132.1 (3)
Coyote Ridge Brookings County, South Dakota 39 96.7 (4)
Blooming Grove McLean County, Illinois 94 250.0 (5)
Tatanka Ridge Deuel County, South Dakota 56 155.0 (6)
Total wind generating facilities 323 836.3

(1)    Nameplate capacity is the amount of energy a turbine should produce at optimal wind speeds.

(2)    In January 2019, WECI completed the acquisition of an 80% ownership interest in Upstream. In February 2020, WECI agreed to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in this wind park. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(3)    In August 2018, WECI completed the acquisition of an 80% ownership interest in Bishop Hill III. In December 2018, WECI acquired an additional 10% ownership interest in this wind park. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(4)    In December 2018, WECI completed the acquisition of an 80% ownership interest in Coyote Ridge. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(5)    In December 2020, WECI completed the acquisition of a 90% ownership interest in Blooming Grove. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

(6)    In December 2020, WECI completed the acquisition of an 85% ownership interest in Tatanka Ridge, which achieved commercial operation on January 5, 2021. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

In August 2019, WECI signed an agreement to acquire an 80% ownership interest in Thunderhead, a 300 MW wind generating facility under construction in Antelope and Wheeler counties in Nebraska. In February 2020, WECI agreed to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in this wind park. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The following should be read in conjunction with Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, in this report for additional information on material legal proceedings and matters related to us and our subsidiaries.

In addition to those legal proceedings discussed in Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, Note 26, Regulatory Environment, and below, we are currently, and from time to time, subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 36 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
results of these additional legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will not have a material effect on our financial statements.

Environmental Matters

Manlove Field Matter

In September 2017, the IDNR, Office of Oil and Gas Resource Management, issued a VN to PGL related to a leak of natural gas from a well located at the PGL Manlove Gas Storage Field in December 2016. PGL quickly shut down and permanently plugged the well to contain the leak after it was discovered. The leak resulted in the migration of natural gas from the well to the Mahomet Aquifer located in central Illinois and impacted residential freshwater wells. PGL has been working with residents potentially impacted by the natural gas leak, and the Illinois state agencies to investigate and remediate the impacts of the natural gas leak to the Mahomet Aquifer. In October 2017, the Illinois AG filed a complaint against PGL alleging certain violations of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and the Oil and Gas Act. PGL entered into an Agreed Interim Order with the State of Illinois in October 2017 and a First Amended Agreed Interim Order in September 2019 whereby PGL agreed, among other things, to continue actions it was already undertaking proactively, including the submittal of a GMZ application to the IEPA in August 2019. A supplemental filing was sent to the IEPA in December 2019. Proposed modifications to the GMZ application were submitted to the Illinois AG and the IEPA in May 2020. In September 2020, the IEPA sent PGL a letter conditionally approving the GMZ application.

In addition, in December 2017, the IEPA issued a VN to PGL alleging the same violations as the AG. Lastly, in January 2018, the IEPA issued a VN alleging certain violations of Illinois air emission rules arising from the construction and operation of flaring equipment at the leak site. Both of the IEPA VN matters have been referred to the AG for enforcement.

In the complaint, as is customary in these types of actions, the AG cited to the statutory penalties allowed by law. Ultimately, the pursuit of any civil penalties is at the AG’s discretion. In the event the AG pursues penalties in connection with a final order, we believe that PGL']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s portfolio, and helping these larger customers meet their sustainability and renewable energy goals.

We also have a goal to decrease the rate of methane emissions from the natural gas distribution lines in our networks by 30% per mile by the year 2030 from a 2011 baseline. We were over halfway toward meeting that goal at the end of 2019.

Reliability

We have made significant reliability-related investments in recent years, and in accordance with our ESG Progress Plan, expect to continue strengthening and modernizing our generation fleet and distribution networks to further improve reliability. Our investments, coupled with our commitment to operating efficiency and customer care, resulted in We Energies being recognized in 2020 by PA Consulting Group, an independent consulting firm, for superior reliability of its electric delivery network. This was the 10th consecutive year that We Energies has been named the most reliable utility in the Midwest.

Below are a few examples of reliability projects that are proposed or currently underway.

•WE is constructing approximately 46 miles of natural gas transmission main to increase the quantity and reliability of natural gas service in southeastern Wisconsin. This project, called the Lakeshore Lateral Project, is expected to be completed by the end of 2021.

•WE and Wisconsin Gas LLC (WG) each plan to construct their own liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility to meet anticipated peak demand. Subject to PSCW approval, commercial operation of the LNG facilities is targeted for the end of 2023.

•The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company continues to work on its Natural Gas System Modernization Program, which primarily involves replacing old iron pipes and facilities in Chicago’s natural gas delivery system with modern polyethylene pipes to reinforce the long-term safety and reliability of the system.

•WPS continues work on its System Modernization and Reliability Project, which involves modernizing parts of its electric distribution system, including burying or upgrading lines. WE, WPS, and WG also continue to upgrade their electric and natural gas distribution systems to enhance reliability.

For more details, see Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Resources and Requirements – Capital Requirements – Significant Capital Projects.

Operating Efficiency

We continually look for ways to optimize the operating efficiency of our company and will continue to do so under the ESG Progress Plan. For example, we are making progress on our Advanced Metering Infrastructure program, replacing aging meter-reading equipment on both our network and customer property. An integrated system of smart meters, communication networks, and data management programs enables two-way communication between our utilities and our customers. This program reduces the manual effort for disconnects and reconnects and enhances outage management capabilities.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 42 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
We continue to focus on integrating the resources of all our businesses and finding the best and most efficient processes while meeting all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

Financial Discipline

A strong adherence to financial discipline is essential to meeting our earnings projections and maintaining a strong balance sheet, stable cash flows, a growing dividend, and quality credit ratings.

We follow an asset management strategy that focuses on investing in and acquiring assets consistent with our strategic plans, as well as disposing of assets, including property, plants, equipment, and entire business units, that are no longer strategic to operations, are not performing as intended, or have an unacceptable risk profile. See Note 3, Dispositions, for information on the sale of certain WPS Power Development, LLC solar power generation facilities.

Our investment focus remains in our regulated utility and non-utility energy infrastructure businesses, as well as our investment in ATC. In our non-utility energy infrastructure segment, we have acquired or agreed to acquire majority interests in six wind parks, capable of providing more than 1,000 MW of carbon-free energy in total. These renewable energy assets represent more than $1.6 billion in committed investments and have long-term agreements to serve customers outside our traditional service areas. Production tax credits from these wind investments reduce our cash tax expense. We also project that these investments will generate higher returns than our regulated business. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for additional information on these transactions.

We expect total capital expenditures for our regulated utility and non-utility energy infrastructure businesses to be approximately $15.0 billion from 2021 to 2025. In addition, we currently forecast that our share of ATC']:
(30) The term "Plan Year" shall mean the 12-calendar-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year. (31) The term "Salary Reduction Election Form" shall mean the election form (including a form in electronic, telephonic, or other format) executed by the Participant pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.1 of the Plan. (32) The term "Salary Reduction Account" shall mean the separate bookkeeping account to be kept for each Participant to which Salary Reduction Credits shall be credited. (33) The term "Salary Reduction Credits" shall mean the amounts credited to the Participant's Salary Reduction Account by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.1 of the Plan. (34) The term "Savings Plan" shall mean the Truist Financial Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. (35) The term "Section 409A" shall mean Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder by the United States Department of Treasury and/or the Internal Revenue Service. (36) The term "Separation from Service" shall mean a termination of employment with the Company and all Affiliates that is a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A. (37) The term "Service" shall mean employment by the Employer as an Employee. 6 (38) The term "Specified Employee" shall mean a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A. (39) The term "Spouse" or "Surviving Spouse" shall mean, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the legally married or surviving spouse of a Participant. (40) The term "Unforeseeable Emergency" shall mean a severe financial hardship as more fully defined in Section 6.1. 2.2 Construction. Wherever appropriate, words used in the Plan in the singular may include the plural, or the plural may be read as the singular. References to one gender shall include the other. A capitalized term used, but not defined in the Plan, shall have the same meaning given in the Savings Plan, depending on the contex...

['s planned investment in Thunderhead. See Note 2, Acquisitions, for more information on this wind project.

We expect to provide total capital contributions to ATC (not included in the above table) of approximately $45 million from 2021 through 2023. We do not expect to make any contributions to ATC Holdco during that period.

See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity, and Capital Resources – Coronavirus Disease – 2019, for information on the impacts to our capital projects as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Common Stock Matters

For information related to our common stock matters, see Note 11, Common Equity.

On January 21, 2021, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.6775 per share effective with the first quarter of 2021 dividend payment, an increase of 7.1%. This equates to an annual dividend of $2.71 per share. In addition, the Board of Directors affirmed our dividend policy that continues to target a dividend payout ratio of 65-70% of earnings.

Investments in Outside Trusts

We use outside trusts to fund our pension and certain OPEB obligations. These trusts had investments of approximately $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2020. These trusts hold investments that are subject to the volatility of the stock market and interest rates. We contributed $113.2 million and $65.9 million to our pension and OPEB plans in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Future contributions to the plans will be dependent upon many factors, including the performance of existing plan assets and long-term discount rates. For additional information, see Note 20, Employee Benefits.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are a party to various financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk as a part of our normal course of business, including financial guarantees and letters of credit that support construction projects, commodity contracts, and other payment obligations. We believe that these agreements do not have, and are not reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. For additional information, see Note 13, Short-Term Debt and Lines of Credit, Note 19, Guarantees, and Note 23, Variable Interest Entities.

FACTORS AFFECTING RESULTS, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Coronavirus Disease – 2019

The global outbreak of COVID-19 was declared a pandemic by the WHO and the CDC and has spread globally, including throughout the United States. There is still considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic itself, as well as the measures currently in place to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, limitations on business operations, and the timing of widespread availability of the vaccines. Although the shelter-in-place orders that were in effect for our service territories have expired, other orders limiting the capacity of various businesses have been adopted in some jurisdictions. In addition, similar or more restrictive orders could be adopted in the future depending on how the virus continues to spread and/or mutate. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related government responses have significantly disrupted economic activity in our service territories. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information on our risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 66 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Liquidity and Financial Markets

Volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and global economy have impacted us in a number of ways. Upon the initial enactment of certain COVID-19 related shelter-in-place orders in early to mid-March 2020, commercial paper markets became more expensive and related terms became less flexible. In response to these signs of market instability, the Federal Reserve implemented certain measures, including a reduction in its benchmark Federal Funds rate and the establishment of various programs to restore liquidity and stability into the short-term funding markets. These measures have had a mitigating effect on commercial paper rates and availability. In addition, the initial disruption in the long-term debt markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided.

In response to the factors discussed above, we have taken several steps to enhance our liquidity position. In March 2020, we entered into a $340 million, 364-day term loan, which was used to pay down commercial paper. Also, while not directly related to COVID-19, we have completed several long-term debt offerings and refinancings in 2020 in order to finance capital investment in accordance with our long-term capital plan and also to take advantage of the low interest rate environment. See Note 14, Long-Term Debt, for more information on recent borrowing activity.

Our overall liquidity position remains strong. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $1.4 billion available under our credit facilities, providing sufficient backing for our commercial paper program.

Pensions and Other Benefits

Our pension and OPEB plans were well funded at December 31, 2020, with total plan assets exceeding total benefit obligations by $273.9 million. There has been significant volatility in global capital markets during the COVID-19 pandemic, although the market losses seen during the early stages of the pandemic in the first quarter of 2020 reversed course throughout the remainder of the year in response to government stimulus and relief efforts and the gradual reopening of businesses. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized a $451.2 million increase in the value of long-term investments held in our pension and OPEB plan trusts as gains recognized during the last three quarters of 2020 more than offset first quarter losses.

We could still see earnings volatility associated with certain other benefit plans that we maintain, primarily related to performance units that we grant to certain employees, and our deferred compensation plans. Certain of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans are indexed to mutual funds and our common stock, and the liabilities associated with outstanding performance units are indexed to our common stock. These liabilities are marked to fair value through earnings each period, with earnings increasing as market prices decrease. Earnings volatility associated with our deferred compensation plans is partially mitigated by investments we hold in a rabbi trust.

Allowance for Credit Losses

We evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable and unbilled revenue balances considering a combination of factors. Risks identified that we do not believe are reflected in historical reserve percentages are assessed on a quarterly basis to determine whether further adjustments are required. Economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, including higher unemployment rates and the inability of some businesses to recover from the pandemic, could cause a higher percentage of accounts receivable to become uncollectible. Although impacts on our results of operations related to uncollectible receivable balances are mitigated by regulatory mechanisms and certain COVID-19 specific regulatory orders we have received, the increase in past due receivables we have experienced has resulted in higher working capital requirements. At December 31, 2020, accounts receivables, net of reserves for credit losses, that were greater than 90 days past due, totaled $122.8 million, a $38.6 million increase compared to December 31, 2019.

Our exposure to credit losses for certain regulated utility customers is mitigated by regulatory mechanisms we have in place. Specifically, rates related to all of the customers in our Illinois segment, as well as the residential rates of WE, WPS, and WG in our Wisconsin segment include riders or other mechanisms for cost recovery or refund of uncollectible expense based on the difference between the actual provision for credit losses and the amounts recovered in rates. In addition, we have received specific orders related to the deferral of certain costs (including credit losses) and foregone revenues related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The additional protections provided by these COVID-19 specific regulatory orders are still being assessed and will be subject to prudency reviews. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on these orders.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 67 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Loss of Business

We have seen a decrease in the consumption of electricity and natural gas by some of our commercial and industrial customers as they continue to experience lower demand for their products and services as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many businesses in our service territories still are not operating at full capacity. The extent to which this decrease in consumption will impact our results of operations and liquidity is dependent upon the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ability of our customers to resume and continue normal operations.

Supply Chain and Capital Projects

We have not yet experienced a significant disruption in our supply chain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, if the pandemic significantly impacts our key suppliers’ ability to manufacture or deliver critical equipment and supplies or provide services, we could experience delays in our ability to perform certain maintenance and capital project activities.

The timing of Badger Hollow I has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The parties agreed to delay the expected commercial operation date from December 2020 to the second quarter of 2021 so that initial staffing increases could be minimized in light of state mandated COVID-19 orders. We are not currently aware of any other major delays or changes related to our capital plan as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, although we are continuing to monitor potential impacts on an ongoing basis.

Employee Safety

The health and safety of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic is paramount and enables us to continue to provide critical services to our customers.

We are following CDC guidelines and have taken precautions with regard to employee hygiene and facility cleanliness, imposed travel limitations on our employees, provided additional employee benefits, and implemented remote work policies where appropriate. We have activated an incident management team and updated our pandemic continuity plan, which includes identifying critical work groups and ensuring safe harbor plans are in place. We have minimized the unnecessary risk of exposure to COVID-19 by implementing self-quarantine measures and have adopted additional precautionary measures for our critical work groups.

Additional protocols have been implemented for our field employees who travel to customer premises in order to protect them, our customers, and the public. We have modified our work protocols to ensure compliance with social distancing and face covering recommendations.

All of these safety measures have caused us to incur additional costs, and depending upon the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material impact on our results of operations and liquidity.

Regulatory Environment

Our utilities have taken actions to ensure that essential utility services are available to customers in their service territories during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the PSCW, the ICC, the MPUC, and the MPSC have all issued written orders regarding certain measures required in their respective jurisdictions. See Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information on these orders and the potential recovery of expenditures incurred as a result of the measures being taken.

Market Risks and Other Significant Risks

We are exposed to market and other significant risks as a result of the nature of our businesses and the environments in which those businesses operate. These risks, described in further detail below, include but are not limited to:

Regulatory Recovery

Our utilities account for their regulated operations in accordance with accounting guidance under the Regulated Operations Topic of the FASB ASC. Our rates are determined by various regulatory commissions. See Item 1. Business – E. Regulation for more information on these commissions.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 68 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Regulated entities are allowed to defer certain costs that would otherwise be charged to expense if the regulated entity believes the recovery of those costs is probable. We record regulatory assets pursuant to generic and/or specific orders issued by our regulators. Recovery of the deferred costs in future rates is subject to the review and approval by those regulators. We assume the risks and benefits of ultimate recovery of these items in future rates. If the recovery of the deferred costs, including those referenced below, is not approved by our regulators, the costs would be charged to income in the current period. Regulators can impose liabilities on a prospective basis for amounts previously collected from customers and for amounts that are expected to be refunded to customers. We record these items as regulatory liabilities. As of December 31, 2020, our regulatory assets were $3,544.1 million, and our regulatory liabilities were $3,979.1 million.

Due to the Tax Legislation, our regulated utilities remeasured their deferred taxes and recorded a tax benefit of $2,529 million. Our utilities have been returning this tax benefit to ratepayers through refunds, bill credits, riders, and reductions to other regulatory assets, which we expect to continue. See Note 16, Income Taxes, and Note 26, Regulatory Environment, for more information.

We expect to request or have requested recovery of the costs related to the following projects discussed in recent or pending rate proceedings, orders, and investigations involving our utilities:

•Prior to its acquisition by us, Integrys initiated an information technology project with the goal of improving the customer experience at its subsidiaries. Specifically, the project is expected to provide functional and technological benefits to the billing, call center, and credit collection functions. As of December 31, 2020, we had not received any significant disallowances of the costs incurred for this project. WPS and MERC received approval to recover these costs in their most recent rate orders; however, the costs incurred for this project in our other regulatory jurisdictions are still subject to approval by the applicable regulators.

•In January 2014, the ICC approved PGL']:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[' service territories during 2020 and 2019, as measured by degree days, may be found in Results of Operations.

Interest Rates

We are exposed to interest rate risk resulting from our short-term and long-term borrowings and projected near-term debt financing needs. We manage exposure to interest rate risk by limiting the amount of our variable rate obligations and continually monitoring the effects of market changes on interest rates. When it is advantageous to do so, we enter into long-term fixed rate debt. We may also enter into derivative financial instruments, such as swaps, to mitigate interest rate exposure.

Based on the variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, a hypothetical increase in market interest rates of one percentage point would have increased annual interest expense by $20.3 million and $10.8 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. This sensitivity analysis was performed assuming a constant level of variable rate debt during the period and an immediate increase in interest rates, with no other changes for the remainder of the period.

Marketable Securities Return

We use various trusts to fund our pension and OPEB obligations. These trusts invest in debt and equity securities. Changes in the market prices of these assets can affect future pension and OPEB expenses. Additionally, future contributions can also be affected by the investment returns on trust fund assets. We believe that the financial risks associated with investment returns would be partially mitigated through future rate actions by our various utility regulators.

The fair value of our trust fund assets and expected long-term returns were approximately:

------------------- ----------------------- ------- --------------------------------- ---- -
(in millions) As of December 31, 2020 Expected Return on Assets in 2021
Pension trust funds $ 3,225.0 6.87 %
OPEB trust funds $ 951.4 7.00 %

Fiduciary oversight of the pension and OPEB trust fund investments is the responsibility of an Investment Trust Policy Committee. The Committee works with external actuaries and investment consultants on an ongoing basis to establish and monitor investment strategies and target asset allocations. Forecasted cash flows for plan liabilities are regularly updated based on annual valuation results. Target asset allocations are determined utilizing projected benefit payment cash flows and risk analyses of appropriate investments. The targeted asset allocations are intended to reduce risk, provide long-term financial stability for the plans, and maintain funded levels which meet long-term plan obligations while preserving sufficient liquidity for near-term benefit payments. Investment strategies utilize a wide diversification of asset types and qualified external investment managers.

We consult with our investment advisors on an annual basis to help us forecast expected long-term returns on plan assets by reviewing actual historical returns and calculating expected total trust returns using the weighted-average of long-term market returns for each of the major target asset categories utilized in the funds.

Economic Conditions

We have electric and natural gas utility operations that serve customers in Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Michigan. As such, we are exposed to market risks in the regional Midwest economy. In addition, any economic downturn or disruption of national or international markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products, which could affect their demand for our products.

-------------- -- ----------------------
2020 Form 10-K 70 WEC Energy Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Inflation

We continue to monitor the impact of inflation, especially with respect to the costs of medical plans, fuel, transmission access, construction costs, and regulatory and environmental compliance in order to minimize its effects in future years through pricing strategies, productivity improvements, and cost reductions. We do not believe the impact of general inflation will have a material impact on our future results of operations.

For additional information concerning risk factors, including market risks, see the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information at the beginning of this report and Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Competitive Markets

Electric Utility Industry

The FERC supports large RTOs, which directly impacts the structure of the wholesale electric market. Due to the FERC']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24
